<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20171025_10-K_edgar_data_1618921_0001618921-17-000069_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17361886</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>678238</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>803099</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6216716</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7008491</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2285553</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>96</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001618921-17-000069.hdr.sgml : 20171025
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20171025170845
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001618921-17-000069
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		128
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20170831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20171025
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20171025

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001618921
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-DRUG STORES AND PROPRIETARY STORES [5912]
		IRS NUMBER:				471758322
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-36759
		FILM NUMBER:		171153843

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		108 WILMOT ROAD
		CITY:			DEERFIELD
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60015
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(847) 315-2500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		108 WILMOT ROAD
		CITY:			DEERFIELD
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60015

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001618921-17-000069.txt : 20171025

10-K
 1
 wba-2017831x10k.htm
 WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC 10-K 8-31-2017

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2017    

For the Transition Period From ____________ to ___________ 
  Commission file number 001-36759 
                   WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC  . 
      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
      Delaware 
      
    47-1758322 
      (State of incorporation) 
      
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
      108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 
      
    60015 
      (Address of principal executive offices) 
      
    (Zip Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:    (847) 315-2500 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      Yes            No   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   Yes            No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      Yes     No   
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):                     
    Large accelerated filer   
    Accelerated filer   
        
    Non-accelerated filer   
    Smaller reporting company   

Emerging growth company   

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to the Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).          Yes            No   
  As of February 28, 2017, the aggregate market value of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates (based upon the closing transaction price on such date) was approximately $80.7 billion.  As of September 30, 2017, there were 1,009,549,218 shares of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. common stock outstanding. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders planned to be held on January 17, 2018 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K as indicated herein. 

Table of Contents  

Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 
  Annual Report on Form 10-K 
  Table of Contents 
                   Part I 

Page 
      Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk factors  
    9 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved staff comments  
    26 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    26 
      Item 3. 
     Legal proceedings  
    27 
      Item 4. 
     Mine safety disclosures  
    27 
        
     Executive officers of the registrant  
    28 
        
      Part II 
        
      Item 5. 
     Market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities  
    29 
      Item 6. 
     Selected financial data  
    31 
      Item 7. 
     Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations  
    33 
      Item 7A. 
     Qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk  
    55 
      Item 8. 
     Financial statements and supplementary data  
    63 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure  
    105 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and procedures  
    105 
      Item 9B. 
     Other information  
    105 
        
      Part III 
        
      Item 10. 
     Directors, executive officers and corporate governance  
    106 
      Item 11. 
     Executive compensation  
    106 
      Item 12. 
     Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters  
    106 
      Item 13. 
     Certain relationships and related transactions and director independence  
    106 
      Item 14. 
     Principal accounting fees and services  
    106 
        
      Part IV 
        
      Item 15. 
     Exhibits and financial statement schedules  
    106 
      Item 16. 
     Form 10-K summary  
    115 
        
     Signatures  
    116 

On December 31, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. became the successor of Walgreen Co. ( Walgreens ) pursuant to a merger to effect a reorganization of Walgreens into a holding company structure (the  Reorganization ), with Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. becoming the parent holding company. 
    
  References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this  Form 10-K ) to the  Company,   we,   us  or  our  refer to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and its subsidiaries from and after the effective time of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014 and, prior to that time, to the predecessor registrant Walgreens and its subsidiaries, and in each case do not include unconsolidated partially-owned entities, except as otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires. Our fiscal year ends on August 31, and references herein to  fiscal   2017    refer to our fiscal year ended   August 31, 2017  . 
    
  This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements in management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7 below. 
    
  All trademarks, trade names and service marks used herein are the property of their respective owners. 

Table of Contents  

PART I 
   
  Item 1.  Business 

Overview 
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Walgreens Boots Alliance ) is the first global, pharmacy-led health and wellbeing enterprise with sales of   $118.2 billion   in the fiscal year ended   August 31, 2017  . Our purpose is to help people across the world lead healthier and happier lives. 
    
  Walgreens Boots Alliance is the largest retail pharmacy, health and daily living destination across the U.S. and Europe. Walgreens Boots Alliance and the companies in which it has equity method investments together have a presence in more than   25   1    countries and employ more than   385,000   1    people. The company is a global leader in pharmacy-led, health and wellbeing retail and, together with the companies in which it has equity method investments, has over   13,200   1    stores in   11   1    countries as well as one of the largest global pharmaceutical wholesale and distribution networks, with over   390   1    distribution centers delivering to more than   230,000   2    pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year in more than   20   1    countries. In addition, Walgreens Boots Alliance is one of the world s largest purchasers of prescription drugs and many other health and wellbeing products. 
    
  Our portfolio of retail and business brands includes Walgreens, Duane Reade, Boots and Alliance Healthcare, as well as increasingly global health and beauty product brands, such as No7, Soap   Glory, Liz Earle, Sleek MakeUP and Botanics. Our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development capabilities. We seek to further drive innovative ways to address global health and wellness challenges. We believe we are well positioned to expand customer offerings in existing markets and become a health and wellbeing partner of choice in emerging markets. 
    
  Walgreens Boots Alliance was incorporated in Delaware in 2014 and, as described below, is the successor of Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation, which was formed in 1909 as a successor to a business founded in 1901. Our principal executive offices are located at 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol  WBA . 
    
   1       As of   August 31, 2017  , using publicly available information for AmerisourceBergen. 
   2       For 12 months ending   August 31, 2017  , using publicly available information for AmerisourceBergen. 

-   1   - 

Table of Contents  

Recent transactions 
  On March 31, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance and pharmacy benefit manager Prime Therapeutics LLC closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, as part of a strategic alliance. AllianceRx Walgreens Prime is consolidated by Walgreens Boots Alliance and reported within the Retail Pharmacy USA division in its financial statements. See note 6, acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 
    
  On March 18, 2016, we exercised warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen Corporation ( AmerisourceBergen ) common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.17 billion. On August 25, 2016, we exercised additional warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.19 billion. Following the August 25, 2016 warrant exercise, we do not hold any further warrants to purchase shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock. As of   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , we owned   56,854,867   AmerisourceBergen common shares, representing approximately   26%   and   24%   of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock, respectively, and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen s board of directors. As of   August 31, 2017  , we can acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate a second member of AmerisourceBergen s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. The amount of permitted open market purchases is subject to increase or decrease in certain circumstances. The warrants were issued in March 2013 pursuant to a Framework Agreement between Walgreens, Alliance Boots GmbH ( Alliance Boots ) and AmerisourceBergen. Concurrently, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen announced various other agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between Walgreens and AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which we source branded and generic pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen in the U.S. and an agreement which provides AmerisourceBergen the ability to access generics pharmaceutical products through our global sourcing enterprise. In May 2016, certain agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. 
    
  Effective March 18, 2016, we began accounting for our investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to our investment being classified within the operating income of our Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. See note 5, equity method investments to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further information. Due to the March 18, 2016 effective date and the two-month reporting lag, our results for the 12 month period ended August 31, 2016 include approximately three and a half months of equity method income relating to our investment in AmerisourceBergen. Similarly, our results for the 12 month period ended   August 31, 2017   include approximately ten and a half months of equity income reflecting our increased ownership following the exercise on August 25, 2016 of the second tranche of warrants. 
    
  On December 31, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance became the successor of Walgreens pursuant to a merger to effect a reorganization of Walgreens into a holding company structure, with Walgreens Boots Alliance becoming the parent holding company. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Walgreens became a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance, which was formed for the purposes of the Reorganization, and each issued and outstanding share of Walgreens common stock converted on a one-to-one basis into Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Also on December 31, 2014, following the completion of the Reorganization, Walgreens Boots Alliance completed the acquisition of the remaining 55% of Alliance Boots that Walgreens did not previously own (the  Second Step Transaction ) in exchange for  3.133 billion in cash and 144.3 million shares of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Alliance Boots became a consolidated subsidiary and ceased being accounted for under the equity method immediately upon completion of the Second Step Transaction. For financial reporting and accounting purposes, Walgreens Boots Alliance was the acquirer of Alliance Boots. The Consolidated Financial Statements (and other data, such as prescriptions filled) reflect the results of operations and financial position of Walgreens and its subsidiaries for periods prior to December 31, 2014 and of Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries for periods from and after the effective time of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014. 
    
  In addition, we have completed a number of additional acquisitions, divestitures and strategic initiatives in recent years designed to grow our businesses and enhance our competitive position. Please refer to management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7 below and note 3, exit and disposal activities, note 5, equity method investments and note 6, acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below for additional information. 

Rite Aid transaction 
  Terminated acquisition of Rite Aid Corporation ( Rite Aid ) and related matters 
  On October 27, 2015, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Rite Aid and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance (as amended as described below, the  Merger  
  
   -   2   - 

     Table of Contents  

Agreement ), pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire Rite Aid, a drugstore chain in the United States. The Merger Agreement was amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto on January 29, 2017. 
    
  In connection with regulatory review of the merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement, on December 20, 2016, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Rite Aid announced that they had entered into an agreement (the  Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement ), subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to sell certain Rite Aid stores and certain assets related to store operations to Fred s, Inc. ( Fred s ) for $950 million in an all-cash transaction. The transaction was subject to the approval and completion of the acquisition of Rite Aid by Walgreens Boots Alliance pursuant to the Merger Agreement.  
    
  On June 28, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Rite Aid entered into a mutual termination agreement (the  Termination Agreement ) pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the Merger Agreement, including all schedules and exhibits thereto, and all ancillary agreements contemplated thereby, or entered pursuant thereto (other than as expressly specified) (collectively with the Merger Agreement, the  Transaction Documents ), effective as of June 28, 2017. Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, the Company paid Rite Aid the termination fee of $325 million, in full satisfaction of any amounts required to be paid by the Company under the Merger Agreement and other Transaction Documents. The parties also agreed to release each other from, among other things, any and all liability, claims, rights, actions, causes of action, damages, expenses and fees, however arising, in connection with, arising out of or related to the Transaction Documents, the transactions contemplated therein or thereby or certain related matters. 
    
  On June 28, 2017, following the termination of the Merger Agreement, the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement was terminated. In connection with the termination of the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement, the Company reimbursed $25 million of Fred s transaction costs in full satisfaction of any amounts required to be paid by the Company under the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement.  
    
  See note 8, borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the termination of the Merger Agreement and related matters. 
    
  Acquisition of certain Rite Aid assets 
  On June 28, 2017, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the  Asset Purchase Agreement ) with Rite Aid, pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire 2,186 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid.  
    
  On September 19, 2017, the Company announced it had secured regulatory clearance for an amended and restated asset purchase agreement (the  Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement ) to purchase 1,932 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid for $4.375 billion in cash and other consideration. As of the date of this report, the first few Rite Aid stores have been acquired. Ownership of stores is expected to be transferred in phases, with the goal being to complete the store transfers in spring 2018. These transfers remain subject to closing conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement.  
    
  The Company will account for this transaction as a business combination. 

Industry overview 
  The retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries across the globe are highly competitive and have been experiencing consolidation in recent years. Prescription drugs play a significant role in healthcare and constitute a first line of treatment for many medical conditions. We believe the long-term outlook for prescription drug utilization is strong due, in part, to aging populations, increases in life expectancy, increases in the availability and utilization of generic drugs, the continued development of innovative drugs that improve quality of life and control healthcare costs, and increases in the number of persons with insurance coverage for prescription drugs, including, in the United States,  baby boomers  increasingly becoming eligible for the federally funded Medicare Part D prescription program. Pharmaceutical wholesalers act as a vital link between drug manufacturers and pharmacies and healthcare providers in supplying pharmaceuticals to patients. 
    
  The retail pharmacy industry across the globe relies significantly on private and governmental third party payers. Many private organizations throughout the healthcare industry, including pharmacy benefit management ( PBM ) companies and health insurance companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power. Third party payers, including the Medicare Part D plans and the state-sponsored Medicaid and related managed care Medicaid agencies in the United States, can change eligibility requirements or reduce certain reimbursement rates. In addition, in many European countries, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Changes in law or regulation also can impact reimbursement rates and terms. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the  
  
   -   3   - 

     Table of Contents  

ACA ) was enacted to help control federal healthcare spending, including for prescription drugs, in the United States and the UK Department of Health plans to implement funding cuts to reduce costs within the National Health Service by reducing drug reimbursement rates. These changes generally are expected to reduce Medicaid reimbursements in the United States and pharmacy reimbursements in the UK. State Medicaid programs are also expected to continue to seek reductions in reimbursements. When third party payers or governmental authorities take actions that restrict eligibility or reduce prices or reimbursement rates, sales and margins in the retail pharmacy industry could be reduced, which would adversely affect industry profitability. In some cases, these possible adverse effects may be partially or entirely offset by controlling inventory costs and other expenses, dispensing more higher margin generics, finding new revenue streams through pharmacy services or other offerings and/or dispensing a greater volume of prescriptions. 
    
  Generic prescription drugs have continued to help lower overall costs for customers and third party payers. We expect the utilization of generic pharmaceuticals to continue to increase. In general, in the United States, generic versions of drugs generate lower sales dollars per prescription, but higher gross profit dollars, as compared with patent-protected brand name drugs. The impact on retail pharmacy gross profit dollars can be significant in the first several months after a generic version of a drug is first allowed to compete with the branded version, which is generally referred to as a  generic conversion . In any given year, the number of major brand name drugs that undergo a conversion from branded to generic status can vary and the timing of generic conversions can be difficult to predict, which can have a significant impact on retail pharmacy sales and gross profit dollars. 
    
  We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements and other pressures will continue to cause the industries in which we compete to evolve. Pharmacists are on the frontlines of the healthcare delivery system, and we believe rising healthcare costs and the limited supply of primary care physicians present new opportunities for pharmacists and retail pharmacies to play an even greater role in driving positive outcomes for patients and payers through expanded service offerings such as immunizations and other preventive care, healthcare clinics, pharmacist-led medication therapy management and chronic condition management. 

Segments 
  Our operations are organized into three divisions, which are also our reportable segments:  

Retail Pharmacy USA; 
                
    Retail Pharmacy International; and 
                
    Pharmaceutical Wholesale. 
       
  For fiscal   2017  , our segment sales were:  Retail Pharmacy USA,   $87.3 billion  ; Retail Pharmacy International,   $11.8 billion  ; and Pharmaceutical Wholesale,   $21.2 billion  . Additional information relating to our segments is included in management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7 below and in note 17, segment reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

Retail Pharmacy USA 
  Our Retail Pharmacy USA division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail offerings in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, each focused on helping people feel happy and healthy. We operated   8,100   retail stores in the division as of   August 31, 2017  . Our principal retail pharmacy brands in the division are Walgreens and Duane Reade. We are a market leader in the United States and, as of   August 31, 2017  , approximately   76%   of the population of the United States lived within five miles of a Walgreens or Duane Reade retail pharmacy. 
    
  We provide customers with convenient, omni-channel access to consumer goods and services, including own branded general merchandise such as NICE!, DeLish       , Soap and Glory, No7, and Well at Walgreens, as well as pharmacy and health and wellness services in communities across America. Integrated with our e-commerce platform, the Walgreens mobile application allows customers to refill prescriptions through scan technology, receive alerts when a refill is due and perform retail functionality, such as ordering photo prints, shopping for products and clipping coupons. 
    
  Our services help improve health outcomes for patients and manage costs for payers including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, PBM companies and the public sector. We utilize our retail network as a channel to provide health and wellness services to our customers and patients, as illustrated by our ability to play a significant role in providing flu vaccines and other immunizations. We also provide specialty pharmacy and mail services. As of   August 31, 2017  , we had approximately   400   in-store clinic locations throughout the United States, some of which are operated by the Company and  
  
   -   4   - 

     Table of Contents  

some of which are operated by health system partners. We have more than   78,000   healthcare service providers, including pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, nurse practitioners and other health related professionals. 
    
  The components of the division s sales are Pharmacy (the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services) and Retail (the sale of healthcare and retail products including non-prescription drugs, beauty, toiletries and general merchandise). The division s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, particularly the winter holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons. This seasonality also can affect the division s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division s fiscal year sales were as follows: 

We filled   764.4 million   prescriptions (including immunizations) in the division in fiscal   2017  . Adjusted to 30-day equivalents, prescriptions filled were   989.7 million   in fiscal   2017  . Sales where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, PBM companies and private insurance were approximately   98%   of the division s fiscal   2017   pharmacy sales. 
    
  We fill prescriptions for many state Medicaid public assistance programs. Sales from all such Medicaid plans were approximately   4%   of the division s fiscal   2017   sales. Sales from Medicare Part D plans were approximately   19%   of the division s fiscal   2017   sales. 
    
  Our U.S. loyalty program, Balance  Rewards, is designed to reward our most valuable customers and encourage shopping in stores and online. Balance  Rewards members receive special pricing on select products and earn everyday rewards points for purchasing most merchandise that can be instantly redeemed at our stores or through walgreens.com. As of   August 31, 2017  , the number of active Balance  Rewards members totaled   88.2 million  . For this purpose, we define an active member as someone who has used their card in the last six months. 
    
  AmerisourceBergen supplies and distributes a significant amount of generic and branded pharmaceutical products to the division s pharmacies. We purchase our non-pharmaceutical merchandise from numerous manufacturers and wholesalers. 
    
  The division s sales, gross profit margin and gross profit are impacted by, among other things, both the percentage of prescriptions that we fill that are generic and the rate at which new generic drugs are introduced to the market. Because any number of factors outside of our control can affect timing for a generic conversion, we face substantial uncertainty in predicting when such conversions will occur and what effect they will have on particular future periods. 
    
  The current environment of our pharmacy business also includes ongoing reimbursement pressure and a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail (one prescription that is the equivalent of three 30-day prescriptions) and Medicare Part D prescriptions. Further consolidation among generic manufacturers coupled with changes in the number of major brand name drugs anticipated to undergo a conversion from branded to generic status may also result in gross margin pressures within the industry. 
    
  We continuously face reimbursement pressure from PBM companies, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations and other commercial third party payers; our agreements with these payers are regularly subject to expiration, termination or renegotiation. In addition, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in January and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. We experienced lower reimbursement rates in fiscal   2017   as compared to the same period in the prior year. We expect these pressures to continue. 
    
  We also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in pharmacy provider networks they offer. The prescription volume impact of new agreements and relationships typically is incremental over time. 
    
  Our 90-day at retail prescription drug offering is typically at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions, but provides us with the opportunity to increase business with patients with chronic prescription needs while offering increased convenience, helping facilitate improved prescription adherence and resulting in a lower cost to fill the 90-day prescription. 

-   5   - 

Table of Contents  

Retail Pharmacy International 
  Our Retail Pharmacy International division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses in   eight   countries, each focused on helping people look and feel their best. We operated   4,722   retail stores in the division as of   August 31, 2017   (see properties in part I, item 2 below for information regarding geographic coverage), and have grown our online presence significantly in recent years. Our principal retail pharmacy brands are Boots in the United Kingdom, Thailand, Norway, the Republic of Ireland and The Netherlands, Benavides in Mexico and Ahumada in Chile. In Europe, we are a market leader and our retail stores are conveniently located and our pharmacists are well placed to provide a significant role in the provision of healthcare services, working closely with other primary healthcare providers in the communities we serve. 
    
  The Boots omni-channel offering is differentiated from that of competitors due to the product brands we own, such as No7, Boots Pharmaceuticals, Soap   Glory, Liz Earle, Sleek MakeUp, Botanics, and  only at Boots  exclusive products, together with our long established reputation for trust and customer care. Our brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development capabilities. 
    
  Our retail store networks are typically complemented by online platforms. In the United Kingdom, through the boots.com website and integrated mobile application, our  order and collect  service allows customers to order from a range of over   35,000   products by 8:00 p.m. and collect from noon the following day from approximately   99%   of the United Kingdom s retail stores as of   August 31, 2017  . 
    
  The Boots Advantage Card loyalty program, where customers earn points on purchases for redemption at a later date, continues to be a key element of the Boots offering. As of   August 31, 2017  , the number of active Boots Advantage Card members totaled   15.5 million  . For this purpose, we define an active member as someone who has used their card in the last six months. 
    
  In addition, Boots in the United Kingdom is one of the leaders in the optical market with   637   practices, of which   178   operated on a franchise basis as of   August 31, 2017  . Approximately   30%   of these optical practices are located in Boots stores with the balance being standalone optical practices. 
    
  The components of the division s sales are Pharmacy (typically the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services, subject to variation in particular jurisdictions depending upon regulatory and other factors) and Retail (primarily the sale of health and beauty products including beauty, toiletries and lifestyle merchandising, non-prescription drugs and, in the United Kingdom, the provision of optical services). 
    
  The division s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, with the second fiscal quarter typically the strongest as a result of the winter holiday period. This seasonality affects the division s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division s fiscal year sales were as follows: 

1       Fiscal 2015 includes periods subsequent to the Second Step Transaction (January through August 2015). 
    
  The division s Retail sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, the highly competitive nature of the health and beauty category, specifically our and our competitors pricing actions, promotional offers and events and our customer s desire for value and convenience. 
    
  The division s Pharmacy sales, gross margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by governmental agencies and other third party payers seeking to minimize increases in the costs of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drug reimbursement rates. In the United Kingdom, which is the division s largest market for Pharmacy sales, the amount of government funding available for pharmacy services is typically reviewed and agreed with the pharmacy industry on an annual basis. In fiscal   2018  , the UK Department of Health has indicated that they plan to implement funding cuts to reduce costs within the National Health Service, the publicly-funded healthcare system. 
    
  In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British Pound Sterling being the most significant. 
  
   -   6   - 

     Table of Contents  

Pharmaceutical Wholesale 
  Our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division (excluding equity method investments), which mainly operates under the Alliance Healthcare brand, supplies medicines, other healthcare products and related services to more than   110,000   pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year from   289   distribution centers in   11   countries, primarily in Europe, as of   August 31,     2017  . 
    
  The distribution of prescription medicines to pharmacists comprises the vast majority of the division s sales. Our wholesale businesses seek to provide high core service levels to pharmacists in terms of frequency of delivery, product availability, delivery accuracy, timeliness and reliability at competitive prices. We also offer customers innovative added-value services to help pharmacists develop their own businesses. This includes membership of Alphega Pharmacy, our pan-European network for independent pharmacies, which, as of   August 31, 2017  , had over   6,300   members. 
    
  In addition to the wholesale of medicines and other healthcare products, our businesses provide services to pharmaceutical manufacturers which are increasingly seeking to gain greater control over their product distribution, while at the same time outsourcing non-core activities. These services include pre-wholesale and contract logistics (mainly under the Alloga brand), direct deliveries to pharmacies, and innovative and specialized healthcare services, covering clinical homecare, medicine support, dispensing services, medicine preparation and clinical trial support (mainly under the Alcura brand). 
    
  Combined with local engagement, scale is important in pharmaceutical wholesaling. We are one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors in Europe, and we rank as one of the top three in market share in many of the individual countries in which we operate. 
    
  The division s sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, government actions, which typically seek to reduce the growth in prescription drug consumption, reduce reimbursement rates and increase generic drug utilization. A greater proportion of generic drugs, whether as a result of government actions, generic conversions or other factors, typically has an adverse effect on our revenues. However, in the wholesale division we typically earn equal or better gross margins on generic drugs than on branded drugs, although there are exceptions. 
    
  Changes in manufacturers  product distribution business models can also impact the division s sales and gross margin. For example, when pharmaceutical drug manufacturers introduce fee-for-service contracts, it reduces our sales even if we are successful in winning these contracts, as we only recognize sales for the amount of the fees charged. Other manufacturer services, including our pre-wholesale and contract logistics operations are typically on a fee-for-service basis. 
    
  In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British Pounds Sterling and the Euro being the most significant. The division s sales are subject to less seasonality than our other divisions. 

Intellectual property and licenses 
  We market products and services under various trademarks, trade dress and trade names and rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own numerous domain names, hold numerous patents, have registered numerous trademarks and have filed applications for the registration of a number of our other trademarks and service marks in various jurisdictions. We hold assorted business licenses (such as pharmacy, occupational, liquor and cigarette) having various lives within multiple legal jurisdictions, which are necessary for the normal operation of our business. 

Seasonal variations in business 
  Our business is affected by a number of factors including, among others, our sales performance during holiday periods (including particularly the winter holiday season) and during the cough, cold and flu season (the timing and severity of which is difficult to predict), significant weather conditions, the timing of our own or competitor discount programs and pricing actions, and the timing of changes in levels of reimbursement from governmental agencies and other third party payers. See summary of quarterly results (unaudited) in note 19, supplementary financial information to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below. 

Sources and availability of raw materials 
  Inventories are purchased from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not believe that the loss of any one supplier or group of suppliers under common control would have a material adverse effect on our business or that of any of our divisions. 

-   7   - 

     Table of Contents  

Working capital practices 
  Effective inventory management is important to our operations. We use various inventory management techniques, including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. Our working capital needs typically are greater in the months leading up to the winter holiday season. We generally finance our inventory and expansion needs with internally generated funds and short-term borrowings. For additional information, see the liquidity and capital resources section in management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7 below. 

Customers 
  We sell to numerous retail and wholesale customers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company s consolidated sales for any of the periods presented. Two payers accounted for approximately   25%   of the Retail Pharmacy USA division s sales in fiscal   2017  . One payer in the Retail Pharmacy International division accounted for approximately   18%   of the division s sales in fiscal   2017  . 

Regulation 
  In the countries in which we do business, we are subject to national, state and local laws, regulations, and administrative practices concerning retail and wholesale pharmacy operations, including regulations relating to our participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly financed health benefit plans; regulations prohibiting kickbacks, beneficiary inducement and the submission of false claims; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA  the ACA; licensure and registration requirements concerning the operation of pharmacies and the practice of pharmacy; and regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as regulations promulgated by comparable foreign, state and local governmental authorities concerning the operation of our businesses. We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, currency, political and other business restrictions. 
    
  We are also governed by national, state and local laws of general applicability in the countries in which we do business, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity. In connection with the operation of our businesses, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances. Environmental protection requirements did not have a material effect on our results of operations or capital expenditures in fiscal   2017  . 

Competitive conditions 
  The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. As a leader in the retail pharmacy industry and as a retailer of general merchandise, we compete with various local, regional, national and global retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies, mail order prescription providers, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers. Our pharmaceutical wholesale businesses compete with other pharmaceutical wholesalers as well as alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. We compete primarily on the basis of service, convenience, variety and price. Our geographic dispersion helps mitigate the impact of temporary, localized economic and competitive conditions in individual markets. See  properties  in part I, item 2 below for further information regarding our geographic dispersion. 

Employees 
  As of   August 31, 2017  , we employed approximately   345,000   persons, approximately   110,000   of whom were part-time employees working less than 30 hours per week. The foregoing does not include employees of unconsolidated partially-owned entities. 

Research and development 
  While our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development capabilities, the amount we spend on research and development activities is not material. 

Financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales 
  Prior to completion of the Second Step Transaction, we accounted for our 45% investment in Alliance Boots using the equity method of accounting and as a result, no Alliance Boots sales were included in our sales prior to December 31, 2014. In fiscal 2015, all our sales prior to the completion of the Second Step Transaction on December 31, 2014 occurred within the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Subsequent to the Second Step Transaction, Alliance Boots results have been fully consolidated. Certain financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations, including total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, is included in note 17, segment reporting to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference. See  risk factors  in part I, item 1A below for information regarding risks attendant to our foreign operations. 
  
   -   8   - 

     Table of Contents  

Available information 
  We file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements and registration statements. You may read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically. We make available free of charge on or through our website at http://investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the SEC. The contents of our website are not, however, a part of this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings. 

Item 1A.  Risk factors 
  In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. 
    
  Reductions in third party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 
    
  The substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. The continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, PBM companies, governmental agencies, and other third party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. In the United States, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in January and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. In addition, in an environment where some PBM clients utilize narrow or restricted pharmacy provider networks, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers.  
    
  Changes in political, economic and regulatory influences also may significantly affect healthcare financing and prescription drug reimbursement practices. In the United States, for example, there have been multiple attempts through legislative action and legal challenges to repeal or amend the ACA, in whole and in part. We cannot predict whether current or future efforts to repeal or amend these laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment and any subsequent legislation would have on our business and reimbursement levels. There have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce Medicare Part D and Medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. There can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In many countries where we have operations, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuous and reductions in third party reimbursement levels could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 
    
  In addition, many payers in the United States are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. It is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. In addition, many state Medicaid fee-for-service programs moved to establish pharmacy network payments on the basis of actual acquisition cost by April 1, 2017, which potentially could have an impact on reimbursement practices in other commercial and government arrangements. Future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third party payers, could adversely affect us.  
    
  A shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. 
    
  Our Retail Pharmacy USA division seeks to grow prescription volume while operating in a marketplace with continuous reimbursement pressure. A shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, our Retail Pharmacy USA division has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in recent years. Our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription  
  
   -   9   - 

     Table of Contents  

needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions. Our Retail Pharmacy USA division also experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards Medicare Part D prescriptions in fiscal 2017, and that trend may continue. Preferred Medicare Part D networks have increased in number in recent years; however, we do not participate in all such networks. We have accepted lower reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with Medicare Part D plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. We also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in the pharmacy provider networks they offer. If we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, or if the degree or terms of our participation in such preferred networks declines from current levels in future years, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
    
  We could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs.  
    
  The profitability of our pharmacy businesses depends upon the utilization of prescription drugs. Utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name drugs. Inflation in the price of drugs also can adversely affect utilization, particularly given the increased prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. New brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. Accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, delays in their introduction, or a decrease in the utilization of previously introduced prescription drugs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  
    
  In addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. Any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our expectations.  
    
  We derive a significant portion of our sales in the United States from prescription drug sales reimbursed by a limited number of pharmacy benefit management companies. 
    
  We derive a significant portion of our sales in the United States from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by a limited number of PBM companies. PBM companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. There can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular PBM company s pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period. If our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large PBM companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. If we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the PBM company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. In addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. 
    
  Consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Many organizations in the healthcare industry, including PBM companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. If this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. If these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. 
    
  New partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. For example, following the entry into our strategic relationship with AmerisourceBergen providing for, among other things, generic drug purchasing through our global sourcing enterprise, some of our retail pharmacy competitors subsequently established relationships with other pharmaceutical drug wholesalers and others relating to generic drug procurement. Changes in the participants in such global sourcing enterprises, whether as a result of mergers, acquisitions  
  
   -   10   - 

     Table of Contents  

or other transactions, can have a similar effect. In addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances.  
    
  A significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. We have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. Due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources therein.  
    
  Acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in successfully integrating the operations and personnel, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. Any failure to select suitable opportunities at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. These transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders  percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments also involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to assumed litigation and unknown environmental and other liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. No assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a timely and effective manner, our business operations and growth strategies could be negatively affected. 
    
  Our strategic relationships include outsourcing and similar relationships. We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. For example, in July 2017 we announced a binding offer from Fareva for a 10-year global agreement for the manufacture and supply of own beauty brands and private label products. Under the terms of the proposed agreement, Fareva will take ownership of BCM, Walgreens Boots Alliance s contract manufacturing business, which operates factories in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. The proposed agreement, which is subject to certain closing conditions, is expected to be completed by the end of calendar year 2017. We rely on these third parties to meet our quality and performance requirements and to timely perform as expected. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. If our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with any transition, we may experience operational difficulties, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. 
    
  We may not be able to successfully or timely complete the acquisition of certain Rite Aid assets.  
    
  Risks and uncertainties related to our acquisition of 1,932 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid pursuant to the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement  include, among others, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could impact our ability to complete the closing conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement, including that litigation may be filed which could prevent or delay completion of the transaction, and that uncertainty regarding the transaction may adversely affect relationships with suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. While we have completed the acquisition of the first few Rite Aid stores pursuant to the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement as of the date of this report, ownership of stores is expected to be transferred in phases, with the  
  
   -   11   - 

     Table of Contents  

goal being to complete the store transfers in spring 2018. Completion of the remaining asset acquisition transactions is subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement. We will be unable to complete the acquisition of these Rite Aid assets until each of the conditions to closing is either satisfied or waived. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the transaction, as well as the diversion of management resources, for which we will receive little or no benefit if the closing of the remaining asset acquisitions do not occur.  
    
  We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of certain Rite Aid assets pursuant to the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 
    
  We entered into the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement to acquire certain Rite Aid stores and distribution centers with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. The achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the acquired assets can be integrated into our business in an efficient and effective manner, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. We can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all; the costs or difficulties related to the integration of the acquired assets into our business and operations will not be greater than expected; unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction; litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed; and the transaction will not cause disruption to the parties  business and operations and relationships with employees and suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. 
    
  We could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances, such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues resulting from the transaction. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention, which could adversely impact our agility to respond to market opportunities and our ability to timely identify and implement other strategic actions. If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have incurred significant transaction costs related to the transaction and expect to continue to incur significant integration and related costs as we integrate the acquired Rite Aid assets. These integration and acquisition-related costs, including legal, accounting, financial and tax advisory and other fees and costs, may be higher than expected and some of these costs may be material. 
    
  Our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. 
    
  Our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including: 

compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, immigration, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time;  

additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws; 

potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; 

price controls imposed by foreign countries; 

tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets;  

potential adverse tax consequences, including tax withholding laws and policies and restrictions on repatriation of funds to the United States;  

-   12   - 

     Table of Contents  

fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 

impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the United States, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; 

the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and 

developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. 
       
  These factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition. 
    
  Many of these factors are subject to change based on changes in political, economic and regulatory influences. For example: 

Our Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale divisions have substantial operations in the United Kingdom and other member countries of the European Union. On June 23, 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the European Union, which proposed exit (and the political, economic and other uncertainties it has raised) has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. Negotiations on withdrawal and post-exit arrangements likely will be complex and protracted, and there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. The proposed withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. The withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union and significantly disrupt trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union and other parties. Further, uncertainty around these and related issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the United Kingdom and the other economies in which we operate.  

Many of the products we sell are manufactured in whole or in part outside of the United States. In some cases, these products are imported by others and sold to us. Following the November 2016 election in the United States, the new Administration has discussed or sought to implement changes with respect to certain tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries. While it is not possible to predict whether or when any such changes will occur or what form they may take, significant changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations between the United States and other countries could result in significant increases in our costs, restrict our access to certain suppliers and adversely impact economic activity. In addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in United States trade policy and regulations.  
       
  There can be no assurance that any or all of these developments will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.  
    
  We are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.  
    
  Our significant operations outside of the United States expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses  functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We present our financial statements in U.S. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-U.S. dollar currencies, primarily the British Pound Sterling and the Euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. Our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. Due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. A depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations.  

-   13   - 

     Table of Contents  

We may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us, that could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency borrowings to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. The periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. 
    
  Our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and business transformation and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. 
    
  Our Board of Directors approved the plan to implement the Store Optimization Program described in management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of this program. Our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in the Store Optimization Program and other business optimization initiatives. If we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. Any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change and business transformation plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. 
    
  The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. The loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, a supplier s financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.  
    
  We use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our Retail Pharmacy USA division. 
    
  In March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between Walgreens and AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which we source branded and generic pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen in the U.S. and an agreement which provides AmerisourceBergen the ability to access generics pharmaceutical products through our global sourcing enterprise. In May 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. In addition, in March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen and gain associated representation on AmerisourceBergen s board of directors in certain circumstances. As of the date of this report, AmerisourceBergen distributes for our Retail Pharmacy USA division substantially all branded and generic pharmaceutical products. Consequently, our business in the United States may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that AmerisourceBergen experiences. For example, if AmerisourceBergen s operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the United States and our results of operations. 
    
  Our distribution agreement with AmerisourceBergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or AmerisourceBergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. If such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any such expiration or termination would be  
  
   -   14   - 

     Table of Contents  

temporary. However, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  The anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with AmerisourceBergen may not be realized. 
    
  We entered into the arrangement with AmerisourceBergen with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would result in various benefits including, among other things, procurement cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. The processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. Many of the anticipated synergies and expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits and synergies, whether unique corporate cultures of separate organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. 
    
  As of August 31, 2017, we beneficially owned approximately 26% of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen s board of directors. In addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement dated as of March 18, 2013 by and among the Company, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen (the  Framework Agreement ) to acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of AmerisourceBergen s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. There can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in AmerisourceBergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable. If the price of AmerisourceBergen common stock subsequently declines substantially, we could experience a loss on or impairment of such investment, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, our ability to transact in AmerisourceBergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with AmerisourceBergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in AmerisourceBergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. We could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the Framework Agreement. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  From time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. 
    
  From time to time, we make debt or equity investments in companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. For example, while we have a significant equity investment in AmerisourceBergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of AmerisourceBergen as of the date of this report, we do not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. Although the businesses in which we have made non-controlling investments often have a significant health and daily living or prescription drug component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. Investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. We rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. Investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. From time to time, we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks.  
    
  Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. 
    
  Our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. These conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. External factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, inflation, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely  
  
   -   15   - 

     Table of Contents  

affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending as well as in prescription drug and health services utilization and which could be exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. In addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. All of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Economic conditions in Europe and certain emerging market countries, together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments, could adversely affect us. 
    
  We have significant assets and operations within Europe and certain emerging market countries in our Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale divisions. An economic slowdown within any such markets could adversely affect our businesses in affected regions by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In recent years, in response to the economic environment, a number of governments, including the government in the United Kingdom, have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending for the government-sponsored healthcare systems and constrain overall government expenditures. These measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. Countries with existing austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. In addition, governments that have not yet imposed austerity measures may impose them in the future. Any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations.  
    
  The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. New entrants to the market, existing competitor actions, or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us.  
    
  The level of competition in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries is high. Changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, could materially and adversely impact us. Disruptive innovation by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such changes and make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. Our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order pharmacies and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. Businesses in our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. As competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. For example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms.  
    
  We also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. For example, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the United States, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. Because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs), that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. To better serve this evolving market, on March 31, 2017, we and Prime Therapeutics LLC, a PBM, closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, using an innovative model that seeks to align pharmacy, PBM and health plans to coordinate patient care, improve health outcomes and deliver cost of care opportunities. If this joint venture does not successfully implement its model or is not able to compete effectively in this evolving market, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
    
  If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 

-   16   - 

     Table of Contents  

Our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases, as well as to provide immediate public reactions regarding various facets of our operations. We must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner that keeps pace with technological developments and dynamic customer expectations, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations.  
    
  If the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. 
    
  We could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. The success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, engaging customer service and a quality assortment of available merchandise that differentiates us from other retailers, including enhanced health and beauty product offerings. We must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. Our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. If we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers  purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. In addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns and evolving demographic mixes in the markets we serve could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. 
    
  Our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. 
    
  In addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. We seek to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the expanded offering of No7 and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. Although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers and typically provide us with higher gross margins than comparable national brand products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. An increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors  products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  We may experience a significant disruption in our computer systems. 
    
  We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. In addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and  
  
   -   17   - 

     Table of Contents  

infrastructure, some of which are significant. Upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. Implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. While we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and believe we are taking reasonable action to mitigate known risks, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant issues with our existing systems prior to implementation, that our technology initiatives will be successfully deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without significant disruption to our operations. We also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payers and vendors. 
    
  If we or the businesses we interact with do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, it could damage our reputation and we could suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and regulatory scrutiny. 
    
  The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. Cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. In addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses.  
    
  The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. Some foreign data privacy regulations are more stringent than those in the United States and continue to change. For example, in May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation will supersede current European Union data protection legislation, impose more stringent European Union data protection requirements, and provide for greater penalties for noncompliance. Complying with these and other changing requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and require us to change our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business operations and operating results. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. Compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. If we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to additional litigation and regulatory risks. Our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. 
    
  We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies such as Apple Pay , and we may offer new payment options over time. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over  
  
   -   18   - 

     Table of Contents  

time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. In addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 
    
  Changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. 
    
  Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare and Medicaid funding in the United States and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers  pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. 
    
  In the United States, the results of the November 2016 elections have generated uncertainty with respect to, and could result in, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our businesses and the health care and retail industries. There have been multiple attempts to repeal, amend or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ACA, which was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. Even if the ACA remains in effect, significant provisions of ACA have not yet been finalized (e.g., nondiscrimination in health programs and activities and the excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage) and it is uncertain whether or in what form these provisions will be finalized. We cannot predict whether current or future efforts to repeal, amend or otherwise invalidate these laws and adopt new healthcare legislation will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. Future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments under the ACA or otherwise could adversely impact the number of Americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  
    
  A significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. 
    
  We operate in complex, highly regulated environments in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. Businesses in our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. Our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country and state registration and regulation of pharmacies and drug discount card programs; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including HIPAA; the ACA or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) and Drug Enforcement Administration ( DEA ), trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell as well as our loyalty and drug discount card programs; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the  
  
   -   19   - 

     Table of Contents  

corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the profession of pharmacy. For example, in the United States the DEA, FDA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters as well as employee benefit, competition and antitrust matters. In addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party s intellectual property rights. 
    
  Changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business. The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including:  suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the United States and the National Health Service in the United Kingdom; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. Any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  We could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues. 
    
  We could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective or expired products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labelling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. Through our pharmacies and specialist packaging sites, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we provide. Errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals, including related counseling, and in the provision of other healthcare services could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. Our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. Should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims and judgments. We also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. We could suffer significant reputational damage and financial liability if we, or any affiliated entities, experience any of the foregoing health and safety issues or incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.  
    
  We have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. 
    
  We have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. As of August 31, 2017, we had approximately   $13 billion   of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term borrowings. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: 

requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; 

making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; 

reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions; 

making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and 

-   20   - 

     Table of Contents  

exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. 
       
  We may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. If we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. We also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. 
    
  Our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. In addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. This could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. 
    
  We could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. 
    
  Historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. Our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. The major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. We benefit from investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. However, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. Incurrence of additional debt by us could adversely affect our credit ratings. We depend on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to our business and perform under our agreements with them. Defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect us. Any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. 
    
  We may be unable to keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  
    
  We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. In addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. Further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. The termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. If we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. If we are unable to maintain our existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  
    
  As a holding company, Walgreens Boots Alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. 
    
  Walgreens Boots Alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. As a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including Walgreens and Alliance Boots, to meet its obligations. Additionally, Walgreens Boots Alliance s subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Walgreens Boots Alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Credit facilities and other debt obligations of Walgreens Boots Alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. Payments to Walgreens Boots Alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries  earnings and business considerations. 
  
   -   21   - 

     Table of Contents  

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. 
    
  Our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges; the relative magnitude of our LIFO provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; seasonality; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. 
    
  Our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. 
    
  Our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (December, January and February) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. We purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. Adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. This could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. 
    
  We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. 
    
  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, equity method investments, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, pension and postretirement benefits, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. For example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the Company s reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, including investments held by our equity method investees, may have an adverse effect on the Company s financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit. Factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested or the investments held by those companies include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries in which they operate in.  
    
  New accounting guidance also may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. For example, in February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes Topic 840, Leases. This ASU, which is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 (fiscal 2020), seeks to increase the transparency and comparability of organizations by recognizing operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. See,  new accounting pronouncements,  within note 2, summary of major accounting policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Implementing this ASU, as well as other new accounting guidance may require us to make significant upgrades to and investments in our lease administration systems and other accounting systems, and could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements.  
    
  We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. 

-   22   - 

     Table of Contents  

As of August 31, 2017, we had   $25.8 billion   of goodwill and other intangible assets. We evaluate this goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. As part of this impairment analysis, we determine fair value for each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. Definite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  We are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. 
    
  We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. We are involved in litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities arising in the course of our businesses, including those contained in note 11, commitments and contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 of this Form 10-K. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. In addition, under the   qui tam   or  whistleblower  provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of  false  claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. From time to time, we are also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. Substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. As a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management s attention and resources. 
    
  We could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. 
    
  We are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. For example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the  FCPA ), U.S. export control, anti-money laundering and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires that U.S. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. If we are found to have violated the FCPA, or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. In addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. From time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. 
    
  We could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. 
    
  We are a large corporation with operations in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. As the  
  
   -   23   - 

     Table of Contents  

tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Any changes in corporate income tax laws or any implementation of tax laws relating to corporate tax reform, could significantly impact our overall tax liability. From time to time, legislative and regulatory initiatives are proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. In addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. Any change in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations, any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments and results of operations.  
    
  Our insurance strategies may expose us to unexpected costs. 
    
  We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers  compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers  liability; and employee healthcare benefits. Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. Substantial, unanticipated losses or liabilities, including those due to natural disasters or otherwise, as well as changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  We could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. 
    
  We operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the United Kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. The valuation of the pension plan s assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. This valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. Funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. Adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. 
    
  Certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. 
    
  As of August 31, 2017, affiliates of Stefano Pessina, our Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the  SP Investors ), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock. The SP Investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the Board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the Board s recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the Company s stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). The SP Investors  significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. The influence of the SP Investors could result in the Company taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.  
    
  Shares issued to former Alliance Boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with Alliance Boots are eligible for future sale. 
    
  The shares issued to the SP Investors and certain other former Alliance Boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with Alliance Boots generally may now be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ), subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the  Company Shareholders Agreement ) with certain of the SP Investors. In addition, the Company Shareholders Agreement also contains registration rights that would obligate us, in certain instances, to file future registration statements under the Securities Act covering resales of shares issued to former Alliance Boots stockholders or to permit a  piggyback  on a future registration statement. A sale, or the perception that a sale may occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. 
    
  Conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with.  

-   24   - 

     Table of Contents  

Conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could arise between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which our directors or officers are involved. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the Company and other parties to the Company Shareholders Agreement, including the SP Investors. Mr. Pessina, our Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, indirectly controls Alliance Sant  Participations S.A. ( ASP ), a privately-held company which is a party to the Company Shareholders Agreement, and he and his partner Ornella Barra, our Co-Chief Operating Officer, serve as directors of ASP. Similar issues could arise in connection with other transactions in the future. While our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties  conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. 
    
  Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our Board or impede a takeover. 
    
  Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the  DGCL ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. These provisions include the authorization of the issuance of  blank check  preferred stock that could be issued by the Board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. 
    
  Under the Company Shareholders Agreement, the SP Investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the Board (currently Stefano Pessina) for so long as the SP Investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. Pursuant to the Company Shareholders Agreement, the SP Investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the Board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the Board s recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). 
    
  While these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the Board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. See also the risk factor captioned  Certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval  above. 
    
  The market price of our common stock may be volatile. 
    
  The market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. Broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to the other risk factors identified in this Item 1A, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: 

actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; 

changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us;  

conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; 

announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; 

announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; 

additions or departures of key personnel;  

issuances or sales of our common stock, including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the SP Investors; and  

various other market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors or speculation, whether or not correct, involving or affecting us or our industries, vendors, customers, strategic partners or competitors. 
     
   -   25   - 

     Table of Contents  

There are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results. 
    
  Many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: 

If we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales or sales margins could be negatively affected. 

Our operating costs may be subject to increases outside the control of our businesses, whether due to inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise. 

Our success depends on our ability to attract, engage and retain store, professional and management personnel, including in executive and other key strategic positions, and the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flow. 

Natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can interrupt or otherwise adversely impact our operations or damage our facilities or those of our strategic partners, vendors and customers and have an adverse impact on consumer confidence levels and spending on our products and services. 

If we or our affiliates were to incur significant liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 

The long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses.  

If negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damage our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of our vendors or strategic allies, our businesses may suffer.  

Item 1B.  Unresolved staff comments 
  There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC Staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Item 2.  Properties 
  The following information regarding our properties is provided as of   August 31,     2017   and does not include properties of unconsolidated, partially-owned entities. 
    
  Our Retail Pharmacy USA division operated   8,100   retail stores and   seven   specialty pharmacies. Our Retail Pharmacy International division operated   4,722   retail stores. In addition, our Retail Pharmacy International division also owned or leased   418   standalone Boots Opticians locations. Our domestic and international retail locations, which included Boots Opticians and specialty pharmacy locations, covered approximately   112 million   square feet. We owned approximately   14%   and   4%   of these Retail Pharmacy USA division and Retail Pharmacy International division locations, respectively. The remaining locations were leased or licensed. For more information on leases, see note 4, leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements in part II, item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

-   26   - 

     Table of Contents  

The following is a breakdown of our retail stores: 

We operated   21   retail distribution centers with a total of approximately   14 million   square feet of space, of which   14   locations were owned. Geographically,   15   of these retail distribution centers were located in the United States and   six   were located outside of the United States. In addition, we used public warehouses and third party distributors to handle certain retail distribution needs. Our Retail Pharmacy USA division also operated   two   prescription mail service facilities which occupied approximately   257   thousand square feet. One of these prescription mail service facilities was leased.  
    
  We operated   289   pharmaceutical distribution centers located outside of the United States, primarily in Europe, of which   119   were owned. These pharmaceutical distribution centers occupied approximately   13 million   square feet and were operated by our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division, which supplied third party customers as well as our Retail Pharmacy International division in certain countries. 
    
  We operated   27   principal office facilities, which occupied approximately   three million   square feet.   Nine   of these principal office facilities were owned, and   three   were located in the United States. 

Item 3.  Legal proceedings 
  The information in response to this item is included in note 11, commitments and contingencies, to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Item 4.   Mine safety disclosures 
  Not applicable. 

-   27   - 

Table of Contents  

Executive officers of the registrant 
  The following table sets forth, for each person currently serving as an executive officer of the Company, the name, age (as of October 15, 2017) and office(s) held by such person.  
                       Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Office(s) held 
      James A. Skinner 
      
    72 
      
    Executive Chairman of the Board 
      Stefano Pessina 
      
    76 
      
    Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
      Ornella Barra 
      
    63 
      
    Co-Chief Operating Officer 
      George R. Fairweather 
      
    60 
      
    Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial Officer 
      Alexander W. Gourlay 
      
    57 
      
    Co-Chief Operating Officer 
      Ken Murphy 
      
    51 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer and President of Global Brands 
      Marco Pagni 
      
    55 
      
    Executive Vice President, Global Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel 
      Kimberly R. Scardino 
      
    46 
      
    Senior Vice President, Global Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 
      Kathleen Wilson-Thompson 
      
    60 
      
    Executive Vice President and Global Chief Human Resources Officer 

Set forth below is information regarding the principal occupations and employment and business experience over the past five years for each executive officer. Executive officers are elected by, and serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise stated, employment is by Walgreens Boots Alliance. 
  Mr. Skinner   has served as Executive Chairman since January 2015, having served as non-executive Chairman of the Board from July 2012 to January 2015. Mr. Skinner previously served McDonald s Corporation as Vice Chairman from January 2003 to June 2012, as Chief Executive Officer from November 2004 to June 2012 and as a director from 2004 to June 2012. Since 2005, Mr. Skinner has served as a director of Illinois Tool Works Inc. Mr. Skinner served as a director of HP Inc. (f/k/a Hewlett-Packard Company) from July 2013 to November 2015. 
    
  Mr. Pessina   has served as Chief Executive Officer since July 2015 and as Executive Vice Chairman since January 2015. He served as Acting Chief Executive Officer from January 2015 to July 2015. Previously, he served as Executive Chairman of Alliance Boots from July 2007 to December 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Pessina served as Executive Deputy Chairman of Alliance Boots. Prior to the merger of Alliance UniChem and Boots Group, Mr. Pessina was Executive Deputy Chairman of Alliance UniChem, previously having been its Chief Executive for three years through December 2004. Mr. Pessina was appointed to the Alliance UniChem Board in 1997 when UniChem merged with Alliance Sant , the Franco-Italian pharmaceutical wholesale group which he established in Italy in 1977. Mr. Pessina also serves on the Board of Directors of a number of private companies, including Sprint Acquisitions Holdings Limited, and from 2000 to 2017 served on the Board of Directors of Galenica AG, a publicly-traded Swiss healthcare group. 
    
  Ms. Barra   has served as Co-Chief Operating Officer since June 2016. She served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive of Global Wholesale and International Retail from December 2014 to June 2016. Previously, she served as the Chief Executive, Wholesale and Brands of Alliance Boots from September 2013 to December 2014 and Chief Executive of the Pharmaceutical Wholesale Division of Alliance Boots from January 2009 to September 2013, and before that, Wholesale   Commercial Affairs Director of Alliance Boots. Since April 2013, Ms. Barra has served as a director of Assicurazioni Generali, the parent company of Generali Group, a global insurance group, and since January 2015, Ms. Barra has served as a director of AmerisourceBergen. Ms. Barra also serves as a director of a number of private companies, including Sprint Acquisitions Holdings Limited and, until February 2015, served as a director of Alliance Boots. 
    
  Mr. Fairweather   has served as Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial Officer since February 2015 and served as Principal Accounting Officer from February 2015 to August 2015. Previously, he served as Group Finance Director of Alliance Boots since its formation in July 2006. He joined Alliance UniChem in the same position in 2002 and later led the financial integration during the merger with Boots Group. Previously, he was Group Finance Director of Elementis (joining when it was Harrisons and Crosfield) and before that, Group Finance Director of Dawson International. Mr. Fairweather served as a director of Alliance Boots until February 2015. 
    
  Mr. Gourlay   has served as Co-Chief Operating Officer since June 2016. He served as Executive Vice President, President of Walgreens from December 2014 to June 2016. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, President of Customer Experience and Daily Living of Walgreens from October 2013 to December 2014 and President Elect of Walgreens from September 2014 to December 2014. He served as Chief Executive of the Health   Beauty Division, Alliance Boots, from January 2009 to September 2013, and previously was Managing Director of Boots UK and a member of the Alliance Boots  
  
   -   28   - 

     Table of Contents  

operating committee following the acquisition of Alliance Boots by Sprint Acquisitions Holdings Limited in 2007. He served as a director of Alliance Boots from January 2009 to September 2013. 
    
  Mr. Murphy   has served as Executive Vice President and President of Global Brands since December 2014 and as Chief Commercial Officer since June 2016. Previously, he served as Managing Director, Health   Beauty, International and Brands at Alliance Boots from August 2013 to December 2014 and joint Chief Operating Officer for Boots in the UK and Republic of Ireland. Prior to this, Mr. Murphy had held the positions of Commercial Director for Boots UK and Group Business Transformation Director for Alliance Boots, where he led the integration of Alliance UniChem and Boots Group in 2006 following the merger of the two companies. 
    
  Mr. Pagni   has served as Executive Vice President, Global Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel since February 2016. He served as Executive Vice President, Global Chief Legal and Administrative Officer from February 2015 to February 2016. Previously, he served as Executive Director and Group Legal Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer of Alliance Boots from 2007 to 2014 and General Counsel and Company Secretary for Alliance Boots from 2006 to 2007, having joined Alliance UniChem, a predecessor company, in the same position in 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Pagni served at McDonald s Corporation for 10 years in a number of senior management positions across the world, including in the U.S. and UK, such as Vice President of International Development, and Vice President, General Counsel, International. Mr. Pagni serves as a director of Sprint Acquisitions Holdings Limited and, until February 2015, served as a director of Alliance Boots. 
    
  Ms. Scardino   has served as Senior Vice President, Global Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2015. Previously, she served American Express Company and its subsidiaries in roles of increasing responsibility, including as Senior Vice President, Business Advisory Controller from March 2015 to July 2015, Senior Vice President, Americas Controller from June 2012 to March 2015, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of American Express Credit Corp. from December 2009 to June 2012, and Vice President, Global Head of SOX Compliance. Prior to joining American Express in 2006, Ms. Scardino served in accounting functions at Credit Suisse from 2004 to 2006 and at Lyondell Chemical Company from 2002 to 2004. Ms. Scardino started her career at Arthur Andersen LLP, where she was an auditor from 1994 to 2002. 
    
  Ms. Wilson-Thompson   has served as Executive Vice President and Global Chief Human Resources Officer since December 2014. Previously, she served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Walgreens from January 2010 to December 2014. Prior to that, she served in a variety of legal and operational positions at Kellogg Company, most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources from July 2005 to December 2009. She has served as a director of Vulcan Materials Company, a producer of construction aggregates, since 2009 and Ashland Global Holdings Inc., a global specialty chemicals company, since 2017. 
    
  Mr. Pessina and Ms. Barra are partners and share a private residence. There are no other family relationships among any of our directors or executive officers. 

PART II 

Item 5.  Market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 
  Walgreens Boots Alliance s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol WBA. As of   August 31, 2017  , there were approximately 63,275 holders of record of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. 
    
  The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices of our common stock by quarter during the fiscal years ended   August 31, 2017   and   2016   as reported by the Consolidated Transaction Reporting System. 

-   29   - 

     Table of Contents  

Our cash dividends per common share declared during the two fiscal years ended August 31 were as follows: 

We have paid cash dividends every quarter since 1933. Future dividends will be determined based on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. 
    
  The following table provides information about purchases by us during the quarter ended   August 31, 2017   of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act. Subject to applicable law, share purchases may be made from time to time in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions including accelerated share repurchase agreements, or pursuant to instruments and plans complying with Rule 10b5-1, among other types of transactions and arrangements. 

1   
    In June 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a stock repurchase program, which authorizes the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program s expiration on August 31, 2018. In October 2017, the Company completed the authorized $5.0 billion of stock repurchases. On October 24, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance expanded this stock repurchase program by an additional $1.0 billion. 

-   30   - 

Table of Contents  

Item 6.  Selected financial data 
  Five-Year Summary of Selected Consolidated Financial Data 
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

1   
    Effective March 18, 2016, the Company began accounting for its investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag. 
               2   
    On August 2, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of 45% of the issued and outstanding share capital of Alliance Boots GmbH in exchange for cash and Company shares. The Company accounted for this investment under the equity method until the completion of the Second Step Transaction on December 31, 2014. As a result, fiscal 2015 includes the results of Alliance Boots for eight months (January through August 2015) on a fully consolidated basis and four months (September through December 2014) as equity earnings in Alliance Boots reflecting Walgreens  pre-merger 45% interest. 
               3   
    In fiscal 2015, as a result of acquiring the remaining 55% interest in Alliance Boots, our previously held 45% interest was remeasured to fair value, resulting in a gain of $563 million. 
               4   
    In fiscal 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company recorded other income (expense) of $(517) million, $779 million, $385 million and $120 million, respectively, from fair value adjustments of the AmerisourceBergen warrants and the amortization of the deferred credit associated with the initial value of the warrants. Fiscal 2016 also includes income of $268 million related to the change in accounting method for our investment in AmerisourceBergen. Fiscal 2015 also includes a $94 million loss on derivative contracts that were not designated as accounting hedges. In fiscal 2014, the Company recognized a non-cash loss of $866 million related to the amendment and exercise of the Alliance Boots call option to acquire the remaining 55% share capital of Alliance Boots. 
     
   -   31   - 

     Table of Contents  

5   
    To improve comparability, certain classification changes were made to prior period sales, cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses. These changes had no impact on operating income. The reclassifications were made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. 

-   32   - 

Table of Contents  

Item 7.    Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 
  The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere herein and the description of the Company s business and reportable segments in Item 1 above. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements below and in risk factors in part I, item 1A of this Form 10-K. References herein to the  Company,   we,   us,  or  our  refer to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and its subsidiaries from and after the effective time of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014 and, prior to that time, to its predecessor Walgreen Co. and its subsidiaries, and in each case do not include unconsolidated partially-owned entities, except as otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires. 

INTRODUCTION 
  On March 31, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance and pharmacy benefit manager Prime Therapeutics LLC closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, as part of a strategic alliance. AllianceRx Walgreens Prime is consolidated by Walgreens Boots Alliance and reported within the Retail Pharmacy USA division in its financial statements. See note 6, acquisitions for further information. 
    
  On December 31, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance became the successor of Walgreens pursuant to a merger to effect a reorganization of Walgreens into a holding company structure, with Walgreens Boots Alliance becoming the parent holding company. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Walgreens became a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance, which was formed for the purposes of the Reorganization, and each issued and outstanding share of Walgreens common stock converted on a one-to-one basis into Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Also on December 31, 2014, following the completion of the Reorganization, Walgreens Boots Alliance completed the acquisition of the remaining 55% of Alliance Boots GmbH ( Alliance Boots ) that Walgreens did not previously own (the  Second Step Transaction ) in exchange for  3.133 billion in cash and 144.3 million shares of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Alliance Boots became a consolidated subsidiary and ceased being accounted for under the equity method immediately upon completion of the Second Step Transaction. For financial reporting and accounting purposes, Walgreens Boots Alliance was the acquirer of Alliance Boots. The Consolidated Financial Statements (and other data, such as prescriptions filled) reflect the results of operations and financial position of Walgreens and its subsidiaries for periods prior to December 31, 2014 and of Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries for periods from and after the effective time of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014. 
    
  In addition, we have undertaken a number of additional acquisitions, divestitures and strategic initiatives in recent years designed to grow our businesses and enhance our competitive position. Please refer to note 3, exit and disposal activities, note 5, equity method investments and note 6, acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below for additional information. 
    
  Terminated acquisition of Rite Aid Corporation ( Rite Aid ) and related matters 
  On October 27, 2015, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Rite Aid and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance (as amended as described below, the  Merger Agreement ), pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire Rite Aid, a drugstore chain in the United States. The Merger Agreement was amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto on January 29, 2017. 
    
  In connection with regulatory review of the merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement, on December 20, 2016, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Rite Aid announced that they had entered into an agreement (the  Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement ), subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to sell certain Rite Aid stores and certain assets related to store operations to Fred s, Inc. ( Fred s ) for $950 million in an all-cash transaction. The transaction was subject to the approval and completion of the acquisition of Rite Aid by Walgreens Boots Alliance pursuant to the Merger Agreement.  
    
  On June 28, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Rite Aid entered into a mutual termination agreement (the  Termination Agreement ) pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the Merger Agreement, including all schedules and exhibits thereto, and all ancillary agreements contemplated thereby, or entered pursuant thereto (other than as expressly specified) (collectively with the Merger Agreement, the  Transaction Documents ), effective as of June 28, 2017. Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, the Company paid Rite Aid the termination fee of $325 million, in full satisfaction of any amounts required to be paid by the Company under the Merger Agreement and other Transaction Documents. The parties also agreed to release each other from, among other things, any and all liability, claims, rights, actions, causes of action, damages, expenses and fees, however arising, in connection with, arising out of or related to the Transaction Documents, the transactions contemplated therein or thereby or certain related matters. 

-   33   - 

     Table of Contents  

On June 28, 2017, following the termination of the Merger Agreement, the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement was terminated. In connection with the termination of the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement, the Company reimbursed $25 million of Fred s transaction costs in full satisfaction of any amounts required to be paid by the Company under the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement.  
    
  See note 8, borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the termination of the Merger Agreement and related matters. 
    
  Acquisition of certain Rite Aid assets 
  On June 28, 2017, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement (the  Asset Purchase Agreement ) with Rite Aid, pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire 2,186 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid.  
    
  On September 19, 2017, the Company announced it had secured regulatory clearance for an amended and restated asset purchase agreement (the  Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement ) to purchase 1,932 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid for $4.375 billion in cash and other consideration. As of the date of this report, the first few Rite Aid stores have been acquired. Ownership of stores is expected to be transferred in phases, with the goal being to complete the store transfers in spring 2018. These transfers remain subject to closing conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement. 
    
  The Company expects to complete integration of the acquired stores and related assets within the next three years, at an estimated cost of approximately $750 million, which will be reported as acquisition-related costs. In addition, the Company plans to spend approximately $500 million of capital on store conversions and related activities. The Company intends to treat charges related to acquisition integration activities as special items impacting comparability of results in its quarterly earnings disclosures. 
    
  The Company expects to realize annual synergies from the transaction of more than $300 million, which are expected to be fully realized within four years of the initial closing of this transaction and derived primarily from procurement, cost savings and other operational matters. 
    
  The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See  cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements  below. 

EXIT AND DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES 
  Store Optimization Program 
  On October 24, 2017, the Company s Board of Directors approved a plan to implement a program (the  Store Optimization Program ) as part of an initiative to optimize store locations within the Company s Retail Pharmacy USA division upon completion of the acquisition of certain stores and related assets from Rite Aid. The Store Optimization Program includes plans to close approximately 600 stores across the U.S. and is expected to result in cost savings of $300 million per year to be delivered by the end of fiscal 2020. The actions under the Store Optimization Program are expected to take place over an 18 month period beginning in spring 2018. 
    
  The Company currently estimates that it will recognize cumulative pre-tax charges to its GAAP financial results of approximately $450 million, including costs associated with lease obligations and other real estate costs, employee severance and other exit costs. The Company expects to incur pre-tax charges of approximately $270 million for lease obligations and other real estate costs and approximately $180 million for employee severance and other exit costs. The Company estimates that substantially all of these cumulative pre-tax charges will result in future cash expenditures.  
    
  As the Store Optimization Program is implemented, charges will be recognized as the costs are incurred over time in accordance with GAAP. The Company intends to treat charges related to the Store Optimization Program as special items impacting comparability of results in its quarterly earnings disclosures.  
    
  The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See  cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements  below.  
    
  Cost Transformation Program 
  On April 8, 2015, the Walgreens Boots Alliance Board of Directors approved a plan to implement a restructuring program (the  Cost Transformation Program ) as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. The Cost  
  
   -   34   - 

     Table of Contents  

Transformation Program implemented and built on the planned three-year, $1.0 billion cost-reduction initiative previously announced by Walgreens on August 6, 2014 and included a number of elements designed to help achieve profitable growth through increased cost efficiencies. In April 2015, the Company announced that it had identified additional opportunities for cost savings that increased the total expected cost savings of the Cost Transformation Program by $500 million to a targeted $1.5 billion by the end of fiscal 2017, with significant areas of focus including plans to close approximately 200 stores across the U.S.; reorganize divisional and field operations; drive operating efficiencies; and streamline information technology and other functions. The actions under the Cost Transformation Program focused primarily on our Retail Pharmacy USA segment. The Company achieved $1.5 billion in savings from its previously announced Cost Transformation Program ahead of schedule. As announced in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company expected to close a total of approximately 260 stores.  
    
  The Company completed the Cost Transformation Program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and over the duration of the program, 255 stores were closed. Full program benefits will be recognized in subsequent periods. The Company recognized cumulative pre-tax charges to our financial results in accordance with GAAP of   $1.8 billion  . These charges included   $743 million   for asset impairment charges relating primarily to asset write-offs from store closures, information technology, inventory and other non-operational real estate asset write-offs;   $665 million   for real estate costs, including lease obligations (net of estimated sublease income); and   $393 million   for employee severance and other business transition and exit costs. The Company estimates that approximately 60% of the cumulative pre-tax charges will result in cash expenditures over time, primarily related to historical and future lease and other real estate payments and employee separation costs. See note 3, exit and disposal activities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
    
  The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See  cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements  below. 

COMPARABILITY 
  As a result of the completion of the Second Step Transaction on December 31, 2014, there are a number of items that affect comparability of reported results. Prior to December 31, 2014, our operations were within one reportable segment that included the results of the Retail Pharmacy USA division and corporate costs, along with the fully consolidated results of Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH ( WBAD ), a global sourcing enterprise formed by Walgreens and Alliance Boots, and equity earnings from Alliance Boots. Following the completion of the Reorganization and the Second Step Transaction on December 31, 2014, we report results in three segments. Segmental reporting includes the allocation of procurement benefits, including WBAD s results, and the combined corporate costs for periods subsequent to December 31, 2014. We have determined that it is impracticable to allocate historical results to the current segmental presentation. Accordingly, our Retail Pharmacy USA segment results for fiscal 2015 for months prior to December 31, 2014 include all corporate costs of Walgreens, the full consolidated results of WBAD and equity income from Walgreens  pre-merger 45% interest in Alliance Boots. 
    
  The completion of the Second Step Transaction on December 31, 2014 also means that results for the twelve month periods ended   August 31,     2017   and   2016   include the results of Alliance Boots on a fully consolidated basis, while the twelve month period ended August 31, 2015 includes the results of Alliance Boots for eight months (January through August 2015) on a fully consolidated basis and as equity income from Walgreens  pre-merger 45% interest in Alliance Boots for four months (September through December 2014). 
    
  Twelve month period-over-period comparisons of results require consideration of the foregoing factors and are not directly comparable. 
    
  In addition, our sales results are affected by a number of factors, including our sales performance during holiday periods and during the cough, cold and flu season; foreign currency fluctuations; significant weather conditions; timing of our own or competitor discount programs and pricing actions; levels of reimbursement from governmental agencies and other third party payers; and general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. 

AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION RELATIONSHIP 
  In March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between Walgreens and AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which branded and generic pharmaceutical products are sourced from AmerisourceBergen in the United States and an agreement which provides AmerisourceBergen the ability to access generics pharmaceutical products through WBAD. In May 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. 
    
  In addition, in March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen over time through open market purchases and pursuant to warrants to acquire AmerisourceBergen common stock and gain  
  
   -   35   - 

     Table of Contents  

associated representation on AmerisourceBergen s Board of Directors in certain circumstances. Please refer to our Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2013 for more detailed information regarding these agreements and arrangements.  
    
  On March 18, 2016, we exercised warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.17 billion. On August 25, 2016, we exercised additional warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.19 billion. As of   August 31, 2017  , we owned   56,854,867   AmerisourceBergen common shares representing approximately   26%   of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen s board of directors. As of   August 31, 2017  , we can acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of AmerisourceBergen s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. The amount of permitted open market purchases is subject to increase or decrease in certain circumstances. 
    
  Effective March 18, 2016, we began accounting for our investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to our investment being classified within the operating income of our Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. See note 5, equity method investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further information. Due to the March 18, 2016 effective date and the two-month reporting lag, our results for the 12 month period ended August 31, 2016 include approximately three and a half months of equity method income relating to our investment in AmerisourceBergen. Similarly, our results for the 12 month period ended   August 31, 2017   include approximately ten and a half months of equity income reflecting our increased ownership following the exercise on August 25, 2016 of the second tranche of warrants. 

RECENT HURRICANES 
  The Company currently estimates that it will recognize cumulative pre-tax charges to its fiscal 2018 GAAP financial results of approximately $90 million for the cost of storm damages and store closures. The majority of these charges will be incurred in Puerto Rico. The Company intends to treat these charges as special items impacting comparability of results in its quarterly earnings disclosures. 
    
  The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See  cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements  below. 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
  The following table presents certain key financial statistics for the Company for fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 

-   36   - 

     Table of Contents  

1   
    See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Fiscal   2017   net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance   decrease  d   2.3   percent to   $4.1 billion  , while diluted net earnings per share   decrease  d   1.0   percent to   $3.78   compared with the prior year. The decreases reflect Rite Aid related costs, the phasing of the Company s Cost Transformation Program and the impact in the prior year of the change in accounting method for our investment in AmerisourceBergen, largely offset by the reduction in the fair value of the Company s AmerisourceBergen warrants, improvements in selling, general and administration expenses before cost transformation expenses and a lower effective tax rate. 
    
  Other expense for fiscal   2017   and fiscal   2016   was   $11 million   and   $261 million  , respectively. In fiscal   2016   the change in fair value of our AmerisourceBergen warrants resulted in a loss of $517 million, and additionally, we recognized income of $268 million related to the change in accounting method for our investment in AmerisourceBergen. 
    
  Interest was a net expense of   $693 million   and   $596 million   in fiscal   2017   and   2016  , respectively. The increase mainly reflects the prefunded acquisition financing costs relating to the Rite Aid transaction.  
    
  The effective tax rate for fiscal   2017   and   2016   was   15.7%   and   19.4%  , respectively. The net   decrease   in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to changes in the geographic mix of our pre-tax earnings, favorable changes in permanent differences between our financial statement earnings and taxable profits as well as incremental discrete tax benefits. Our mix of pre-tax earnings was notably impacted by our Cost Transformation Program and costs associated with the termination of the Rite Aid Merger Agreement, both of which reduced our U.S. pre-tax earnings. For fiscal 2017, net discrete tax benefits resulted primarily from deferred tax benefits related to a change in the U.K. tax rate, adopting ASU 2016-09 and net tax benefits associated with prior tax years. 
    
  Adjusted diluted net earnings per share (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Adjusted net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance in fiscal   2017     increase  d   9.9   percent to   $5.5 billion   compared with the prior year. Adjusted diluted net earnings per share in fiscal   2017     increase  d   11.1   percent to   $5.10   compared with the prior year. Adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share were   negatively   impacted by   1.7   percentage points and   1.8   percentage points, respectively, as a result of currency translation. 
    
  Excluding the impact of currency translation, the increase in adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share for fiscal   2017   was primarily due to an increase in equity earnings from AmerisourceBergen and a lower effective tax rate. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 
  
   -   37   - 

     Table of Contents  

Fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015    
  Fiscal 2016 net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance decreased 1.1 percent to $4.2 billion, while diluted net earnings per share decreased 4.5 percent to $3.82 compared with the prior year. The decreases reflect fluctuations in the fair value adjustments of the company s AmerisourceBergen warrants and the prior year gain on the previously held equity interest in Alliance Boots, which was largely offset by the inclusion of Alliance Boots consolidated results for the entire period and an increase in operating income at Retail Pharmacy USA. 
    
  Other income (expense) for fiscal 2016 was an expense of $261 million as compared to income of $685 million in fiscal 2015. The change in fair value of our AmerisourceBergen warrants, excluding deferred income amortization, resulted in a loss of $546 million for fiscal 2016, as compared to income of $759 million for fiscal 2015. Additionally, we recognized income of $268 million for fiscal 2016 related to the change in accounting method for our investment in AmerisourceBergen. 
    
  Interest was a net expense of $596 million and $605 million in fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. Fiscal 2016 included interest expense on notes issued during June 2016. Fiscal 2015 included interest expense of $99 million related to the repayment of a portion of our long-term debt in advance of its maturity. 
    
  The effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 and 2015 was 19.4% and 19.9%, respectively. The net decrease in the effective tax rate is attributable to several factors. First, our fiscal 2016 effective tax rate benefited from having a full-year of foreign sourced pre-tax earnings taxed at lower rates as compared to fiscal 2015, when the Company had only eight months of those earnings after the Second Step Transaction. Further, in fiscal 2016 our domestic pre-tax earnings were reduced as a result of the AmerisourceBergen warrants then held by the Company. In addition, during fiscal 2016 the Company benefited from enacted tax law changes (tax rate reductions) in multiple foreign tax jurisdictions, most notably the United Kingdom, which generated a $178 million tax benefit. The Company also had fewer non-deductible expenses in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015.  These items were partly offset by the facts that in fiscal 2015 the Company had a non-taxable gain on its previously held equity investment in Alliance Boots and recognized the benefit of a capital loss deferred tax asset, neither of which recurred in fiscal 2016. 
    
  Adjusted diluted net earnings per share (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015    
  Adjusted net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance in fiscal 2016 increased 22.6 percent to $5.0 billion compared with the prior year. Adjusted diluted net earnings per share in the fiscal year increased 18.3 percent to $4.59 compared with the prior year. The increase in adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share for fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to inclusion of Alliance Boots consolidated results for the entire period and an increase in operating income at Retail Pharmacy USA. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT 

Retail Pharmacy USA 
  As a result of the completion of the Second Step Transaction, the Company ceased recording equity earnings in Alliance Boots as of December 31, 2014. As such, the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015 includes equity income from Walgreens  pre-merger 45% interest in Alliance Boots for four months (September through December 2014). 

-   38   - 

     Table of Contents  

1   
    See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and related disclosures. 
               2   
    Includes immunizations. 
               3   
    Includes the adjustment to convert prescriptions greater than 84 days to the equivalent of three 30-day prescriptions. This adjustment reflects the fact that these prescriptions include approximately three times the amount of product days supplied compared to a normal prescription. 
               4   
    Comparable stores are defined as those that have been open for at least twelve consecutive months without closure for seven or more consecutive days and without a major remodel or subject to a natural disaster in the past twelve months. Relocated and acquired stores are not included as comparable stores for the first twelve months after the relocation or acquisition. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our method of calculating comparable sales may not be the same as other retailers  methods. The fiscal year ended August 31, 2016 figures include an adjustment to remove February 29, 2016 results due to the leap year. 
       
  Sales fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  The Retail Pharmacy USA division s sales for fiscal   2017     increase  d by   4.2%   to   $87.3 billion  . Sales   increase  d primarily due to higher comparable store sales, which were up   2.8%   in fiscal   2017   driven by growth in Medicare Part D prescriptions and strategic partnerships. Sales were also higher due to the inclusion of five months of results for AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, our recently formed central specialty and mail services business. We operated   8,109   locations (  8,100     retail stores  ) as of   August 31,     2017  , compared to   8,184   locations (  8,175     retail stores  ) a year earlier.  
    
  Pharmacy sales   increase  d by   7.3%   in fiscal   2017   and represented   69.4%   of the division s sales. The increase in fiscal 2017 is due to higher prescription volumes, including central specialty and mail following the formation of AllianceRx Walgreens Prime in March 2017. This increase was partially offset by the impact of generics and reimbursement pressure. In fiscal   2016  , pharmacy sales increased   5.5%   and represented   67.4%   of the division s sales. Comparable pharmacy sales   increase  d   4.7%   in fiscal   2017   compared to an   increase   of   6.0%   in fiscal   2016  . The effect of generic drugs, which have a lower retail price, replacing brand name drugs reduced prescription sales by   2.4%   in fiscal   2017   compared to a reduction of   1.9%   in fiscal   2016  . The effect of generics on division sales was a reduction of   1.5%   in fiscal   2017   compared to a reduction of   1.1%   for fiscal   2016  . Third party sales, where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, employers or private insurers, were   97.7%   of prescription sales for fiscal   2017   compared to   97.4%   for fiscal   2016  . The total number of prescriptions (including immunizations) filled in fiscal   2017   was   764.4 million   compared to   740.1 million   in fiscal   2016  . Prescriptions (including immunizations) adjusted to 30-day equivalents were   989.7 million   in fiscal   2017   compared to   928.5 million   in fiscal   2016  .  The increase in prescription volume was primarily driven by Medicare Part D growth and the impact of strategic partnerships. 
  
   -   39   - 

     Table of Contents  

Retail sales   decrease  d   2.4%   in fiscal   2017   and were   30.6%   of the division s sales. In comparison, fiscal   2016   retail sales   decrease  d   0.3%   and comprised   32.6%   of the division s sales. Comparable retail sales   decrease  d   1.0%   in fiscal   2017   compared to a   decrease   of   0.3%   in fiscal   2016  . The   decrease   in comparable retail sales growth in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to declines in the consumables and general merchandise category and in the personal care category, which were partially offset by growth in the health and wellness category, and in the beauty category.  
    
  Operating income fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Retail Pharmacy USA division s operating income for fiscal   2017     decrease  d   4.8%   to   $4.2 billion  . The   decrease   was primarily due to higher selling, general and administrative expenses related to the Rite Aid transaction and the Cost Transformation Program, partially offset by an increase in gross profit.  
    
  Gross margin as a percent of sales was   25.7%   in fiscal   2017   compared to   26.6%   in fiscal   2016  . Pharmacy margins were negatively impacted in the current fiscal year by lower third-party reimbursements and a higher mix of specialty sales. The decrease in pharmacy margins was partially offset by the favorable impact of procurement efficiencies. Retail margins were positively impacted in the current fiscal year primarily due to underlying margin improvement from actions taken the prior year, changes in promotional plans and sales mix. 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were   20.9%   in fiscal   2017   compared to   21.4%   in fiscal   2016  . As a percentage of sales, expenses in the current fiscal year were   low  er primarily due to higher sales, sales mix and increased efficiencies from the Cost Transformation Program. 
    
  Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Retail Pharmacy USA division s adjusted operating income for fiscal   2017     increase  d   6.5%   to   $5.7 billion  . The   increase   was primarily due to higher pharmacy volume, lower selling, general and administrative expenses and improved retail margins. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 
    
  Sales fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015    
  The Retail Pharmacy USA division s sales for fiscal 2016 increased by 3.5% to $83.8 billion. Sales increased primarily due to higher comparable store sales, which were up 3.8% in fiscal 2016 driven by growth in Medicare Part D prescriptions, partially offset by the impact from the sale of a majority interest in our infusion business in fiscal 2015. We operated 8,184 locations (8,175     retail stores  ) as of August 31, 2016, compared to 8,182 locations (8,173     retail stores  ) a year earlier.  
    
  Pharmacy sales increased by 5.5% in fiscal 2016 and represented 67.4% of the division s sales. In fiscal 2015, pharmacy sales were up 8.2% and represented 66.1% of the division s sales. Comparable pharmacy sales increased 6.0% in fiscal 2016 compared to an increase of 9.3% in fiscal 2015. The effect of generic drugs, which have a lower retail price, replacing brand name drugs reduced prescription sales by 1.9% in fiscal 2016 versus a reduction of 1.8% in fiscal 2015. The effect of generics on division sales was a reduction of 1.1% in fiscal 2016 compared to a reduction of 1.0% for fiscal 2015. Third party sales, where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, employers or private insurers, were 97.4% of prescription sales for fiscal 2016 compared to 96.8% for fiscal 2015. The total number of prescriptions (including immunizations) filled in fiscal 2016 was 740.1 million compared to 723.2 million in fiscal 2015. Prescriptions (including immunizations) adjusted to 30-day equivalents were 928.5 million in fiscal 2016 versus 893.8 million in fiscal 2015.  
    
  Retail sales decreased 0.3% in fiscal 2016 and were 32.6% of the division s sales. In comparison, fiscal 2015 retail sales increased 1.9% and comprised 33.9% of the division s sales. Comparable retail sales decreased 0.3% in fiscal 2016 compared to an increase of 1.5% in fiscal 2015. The decrease in comparable retail sales growth in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to weakness in the consumables and general merchandise category, which was partially offset by increased sales in the health and wellness, and photo categories. 
    
  Operating income fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015    
  Retail Pharmacy USA division s operating income for fiscal 2016 increased 13.2% to $4.4 billion. The increase was primarily due to higher pharmacy volume and lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales.  
    
  Gross margin as a percent of sales was 26.6% in fiscal 2016 compared to 26.9% in fiscal 2015. Pharmacy margins were negatively impacted in fiscal 2016 by lower third-party reimbursements. The decrease in pharmacy margins was partially offset by the favorable impact of procurement efficiencies. Retail margins were negatively impacted in fiscal 2016 primarily from performance in seasonal, consumables and general merchandise categories, partially offset by performance in the health and wellness, beauty and photo categories. 

-   40   - 

     Table of Contents  

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were 21.4% in fiscal 2016 compared to 22.5% in fiscal 2015. As a percentage of sales, expenses in fiscal 2016 were lower primarily due to increased efficiencies and cost controls associated with the Cost Transformation Program. 
    
  Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015    
  Retail Pharmacy USA division s adjusted operating income for fiscal 2016 increased 5.1% to $5.4 billion. The increase was primarily due to higher pharmacy volume and lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 

Retail Pharmacy International 
  The businesses included in our Retail Pharmacy International division were acquired as part of the Second Step Transaction. The Retail Pharmacy International division s results for fiscal   2017   and   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   were primarily impacted by the Second Step Transaction, which resulted in the full consolidation of Alliance Boots results of operations beginning December 31, 2014. Accordingly, the results for this segment for fiscal   2017   and   2016   include the results of Alliance Boots on a fully consolidated basis, while fiscal 2015 results include only eight months (January through August 2015) on a fully consolidated basis, and as such, results are not directly comparable. Results include the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, including the British Pound, Euro, Chilean Peso and Mexican Peso. See Item 7A quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk for further information on currency risk. 

-   41   - 

     Table of Contents  

NA 
    Not Applicable 
       1   
    See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and related disclosures. 
       2   
    Comparable stores are defined as those that have been open for at least twelve consecutive months without closure for seven or more consecutive days and without a major remodel or a natural disaster in the past twelve months. Relocated and acquired stores are not included as comparable stores for the first twelve months after the relocation or acquisition. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our method of calculating comparable sales may not be the same as other retailers  methods. The fiscal year ended August 31, 2016 comparable sales figures include an adjustment to remove February 29, 2016 results due to the leap year. 
       3   
    The Company presents certain information related to current period operating results in  constant currency,  which is a non-GAAP financial measure. These amounts are calculated by translating current period results at the foreign currency exchange rates used in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company presents such constant currency financial information because it has significant operations outside of the United States reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and this presentation provides a framework to assess how its business performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below. 

Sales fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016 
  Retail Pharmacy International division s sales for fiscal   2017     decrease  d     10.9%   to   $11.8 billion  . Sales in comparable stores   decrease  d     10.6%  . The negative impact of currency translation on each of sales and comparable sales was   10.4     percentage points, and as such, c  omparable store sales in constant currency   decrease  d   0.2%  . 
    
  Pharmacy sales   decrease  d     10.5%     in fiscal   2017   and represented   35.4%   of the division s sales. Comparable pharmacy sales   decrease  d   10.7%  . The negative impact of currency translation on each of pharmacy sales and comparable pharmacy sales was   9.7     percentage points, and as such, c  omparable pharmacy sales in constant currency   decrease  d     1.0%   mainly due to the   negative     impact of a reduction in pharmacy funding in the United Kingdom. 
    
  Retail sales   decrease  d     11.1%     for fiscal   2017   and were   64.6%     of the division s sales. Comparable retail sales   decrease  d     10.6%  . The   negative     impact of currency translation on retail sales and comparable retail sales was   10.7   percentage points and   10.8   percentage points, respectively. Comparable retail sales in constant currency   increase  d     0.2%   primarily reflecting growth in the United Kingdom. 
    
  Operating income fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Retail Pharmacy International division s operating income for fiscal   2017     decrease  d     28.0%     to   $741 million   of which   8.7     percentage points (  $89 million  ) was as a result of the   negative   impact of currency translation. The remaining   decrease   was due to lower gross profit and higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. 
    
  Gross profit   decrease  d   12.5%   from prior fiscal year of which   10.3   percentage points (  $558 million  ) was as a result of the   negative   impact of currency translation.  
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses   decrease  d     8.9%   from prior fiscal year. Expenses were   positive  ly i  mpacted by   10.7   percentage points (  $469 million  ) as a result of currency translation. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were   34.0%   in fiscal   2017  , compared to   33.2%   in the prior fiscal year. 
    
  Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Retail Pharmacy International division s adjusted operating income for the fiscal   2017     decrease  d   21.3%   to   $909 million   of which   9.4   percentage points (  $108 million  ) was as a result of the   negative   impact of currency translation. The remaining   decrease   was primarily due to lower gross profit and higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 

-   42   - 

Table of Contents  

Pharmaceutical Wholesale 
  The businesses included in our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division were acquired as part of the Second Step Transaction. The Pharmaceutical Wholesale division s results for fiscal   2017   and fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   were primarily impacted by the Second Step Transaction, which resulted in the full consolidation of Alliance Boots results of operations beginning December 31, 2014. Accordingly, the results for this segment for fiscal   2017   and fiscal   2016   include the results of Alliance Boots on a fully consolidated basis, while fiscal 2015 results include only eight months (January through August 2015) on a fully consolidated basis. Further, effective March 18, 2016, upon the exercise of the first tranche of warrants, we began accounting for our investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag. Due to the March 18, 2016 effective date and the two-month reporting lag, our results for the 12 month period ended August 31, 2016 include approximately  three and a half months of equity method income relating to our investment in AmerisourceBergen. Similarly, our results for 12 month period ended August 31, 2017 include approximately ten and a half months of equity income reflecting our increased ownership following the exercise on August 25, 2016 of the second tranche of warrants. For additional information, see the section  AmerisourceBergen Corporation relationship  above. Accordingly, our results for fiscal years 2017 through 2015 are not directly comparable. Results include the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, including the British Pound, Euro and Turkish Lira. See item 7A quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk for further information on currency risk.  

-   43   - 

     Table of Contents  

NA 
    Not Applicable 
       1   
    See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and related disclosures. 
       2   
    Comparable Sales are defined as sales excluding acquisitions and dispositions. The fiscal year ended August 31, 2016 comparable sales figures include an adjustment to remove February 29, 2016 results due to the leap year. 
       3   
    The Company presents certain information related to current period operating results in  constant currency,  which is a non-GAAP financial measure. These amounts are calculated by translating current period results at the foreign currency exchange rates used in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company presents such constant currency financial information because it has significant operations outside of the United States reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and this presentation provides a framework to assess how its business performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below. 

Sales fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016 
  Pharmaceutical Wholesale division s sales for the fiscal   2017     decrease  d   6.1%   to   $21.2 billion  . Comparable sales, which exclude acquisitions and dispositions,   decrease  d   3.9%  . 
    
  Sales and comparable sales were   negatively   impacted by   8.4   percentage points and   8.6   percentage points, respectively, as a result of currency translation. Comparable sales in constant currency   increase  d   4.7%  , reflecting growth in emerging markets and the United Kingdom partially offset by challenging market conditions in continental Europe. 
    
  Operating income fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Pharmaceutical Wholesale division s operating income for fiscal   2017  , which included   $135 million   from the Company s share of equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen,   increase  d   7.3%   to   $621 million  . Operating income was   negatively   impacted by   10.3     percentage points (  $60 million  ) as a result of currency translation. 
    
  Gross profit   decrease  d   7.8%   from prior fiscal year. Gross profit was   negatively   impacted by   8.4   percentage points (  $179 million  ) as a result of currency translation. 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses   decrease  d   6.9%   from the prior fiscal year. Expenses were   positive  ly impacted by   7.5   percentage points (  $119 million  ) as a result of currency translation. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were   7.0%   in each of fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016.  
    
  Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016    
  Pharmaceutical Wholesale division s adjusted operating income for fiscal   2017  , which included   $322 million   from the Company s share of adjusted equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen,   increase  d   30.5%   to   $924 million  . Adjusted operating income was   negatively   impacted by   9.9   percentage points (  $70 million  ) as a result of currency translation.  
    
  Excluding the contribution from the Company s share of adjusted equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen and the negative impact of currency translation, adjusted operating income   increase  d   3.4%   over the prior fiscal year. See  --Non-GAAP Measures  below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 

NON-GAAP MEASURES 
  The following information provides reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The Company has provided the non-GAAP financial measures, which are not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as supplemental information and in addition to the financial measures that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.  
    
  These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures are presented because our management has evaluated our financial results both including and excluding the adjusted items or the effects of foreign currency translation, as applicable, and believe that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented. 
    
  The Company also presents certain information related to current period operating results in  constant currency,  which is a non-GAAP financial measure. These amounts are calculated by translating current period results at the foreign currency exchange rates used in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company presents such constant currency financial  
  
   -   44   - 

     Table of Contents  

information because it has significant operations outside of the United States reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and such presentation provides a framework to assess how its business performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

-   45   - 

     Table of Contents  

-   46   - 

     Table of Contents  

1   
    Discrete tax-only items. 
               2   
    Represents the adjustment to the GAAP basis tax provision commensurate with non-GAAP adjustments. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  Cash and cash equivalents were   $3.3 billion   (including   $1.8 billion   in non-U.S. jurisdictions) as of   August 31, 2017  , compared to   $9.8 billion   (including   $1.6 billion   in non-U.S. jurisdictions) at   August 31, 2016  . Short-term investment objectives are primarily to minimize risk and maintain liquidity. To attain these objectives, investment limits are placed on the amount, type and issuer of securities. Investments are principally in U.S. Treasury money market funds and AAA-rated money market funds. 
    
  Our long-term capital policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility, reinvest in our core strategies, invest in strategic opportunities that reinforce our core strategies and meet return requirements, and return surplus cash flow to stockholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases over the long term.   
    
  Cash provided by operations and the issuance of debt are the principal sources of funds for expansion, investments, acquisitions, remodeling programs, dividends to stockholders and stock repurchases. Net cash provided by operating activities was   $7.3 billion   in fiscal   2017   compared to   $7.8 billion   in fiscal   2016   and   $5.7 billion   in fiscal   2015  . The   $596 million     decrease   in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to lower cash inflows from changes in accrued expenses and other liabilities and accounts receivable, net partially offset by higher cash inflows from changes in inventories. Decreases in cash inflows on accrued expenses and other liabilities resulted primarily from the timing and payment of expense related accruals. Decreases in cash inflows on accounts receivable, net are primarily due to the timing of collections in Retail Pharmacy USA. Increases in cash inflows on inventories resulted primarily from Retail Pharmacy USA inventory management initiatives related to simplified retail product offering, promotional efficiencies and lower brand name drug inflation. 
    
  Net cash used for investing activities was   $0.8 billion   in fiscal   2017   compared to   $3.5 billion   in fiscal   2016   and   $4.3 billion   in fiscal   2015  . Business acquisitions in fiscal   2017   were   $88 million   compared to   $126 million   for the year-ago period. Business acquisitions in the current year primarily relate to the purchase of prescription files. Business acquisitions in the comparable prior year period include the acquisition of an international beauty brand and prescription files. Fiscal 2016 also included an investment in AmerisourceBergen of   $2.4 billion   as a result of the exercise of warrants. 
    
  Additions to property, plant and equipment in fiscal   2017   were   $1.4 billion   compared to   $1.3 billion   in fiscal   2016   and   $1.3 billion   in fiscal   2015  . Capital expenditures by reporting segment were as follows:  

1   
    Our Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments were acquired as part of the Second Step Transaction in which we acquired the 55% of Alliance Boots that we did not already own on December 31, 2014. As a result of the timing of the acquisition, only eight months of capital expenditures (January through August 2015) were reported for these divisions in fiscal 2015. 
       
  Significant capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 primarily relate to investments in our stores and information technology projects. 
  
   -   47   - 

     Table of Contents  

Additionally, investing activities for fiscal   2017   included proceeds related to sale leaseback transactions of   $444 million  , compared to   $60 million   in the comparable prior year period. 
    
  Net cash used for financing activities in fiscal   2017   was   $12.9 billion   compared to net cash provided by financing activities of   $2.6 billion   in fiscal   2016  . Net cash used for financing activities was   $0.9 billion   in fiscal   2015  . We repurchased shares as part of the $1 billion and $5 billion stock repurchase programs described below and to support the needs of the employee stock plans totaling   $457 million   in fiscal   2017  , compared to   $1.0 billion   in fiscal   2016   and   $500 million   in fiscal   2015  . Proceeds related to employee stock plans were   $217 million   in fiscal   2017   compared to   $235 million   in fiscal   2016   and   $503 million   in fiscal   2015  . Cash dividends paid were   $1.7 billion   in fiscal   2017   compared to   $1.6 billion   and   $1.4 billion   in fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively. In fiscal   2017  , there were   no   public debt offerings compared to   $6 billion   proceeds received from U.S. dollar denominated debt in fiscal 2016 (described below). We currently intend to continue to maintain a long-term dividend payout ratio target of approximately 30 to 35 percent of adjusted net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance. 
    
  We believe that cash flow from operations, availability under our existing credit facilities and arrangements, current cash and investment balances and our ability to obtain other financing, if necessary, will provide adequate cash funds for our foreseeable working capital needs, capital expenditures at existing facilities, acquisitions (including the acquisition of Rite Aid assets), dividend payments and debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. Our cash requirements are subject to change as business conditions warrant and opportunities arise. The timing and size of any new business ventures or acquisitions that we may complete may also impact our cash requirements. 
    
  See item 7A (qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk) below for a discussion of certain financing and market risks. 
    
  Stock repurchase programs 
  In August 2014, the Walgreens Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program (the  2014 stock repurchase program ), which authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of Walgreens  (or, after the Reorganization, Walgreens Boots Alliance s) common stock prior to the program s expiration on August 31, 2016. The Company purchased 1.3 million shares in fiscal 2016 at a total cost of $110 million and 8.2 million shares in fiscal 2015 at a total cost of $726 million under the 2014 stock repurchase program. In April 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a stock repurchase program (the  April 2017 stock repurchase program ), which authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program s expiration on December 31, 2017. In May 2017, the Company completed the April 2017 stock repurchase program, purchasing   11.8 million   shares. In June 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a new stock repurchase program (the  June 2017 stock repurchase program ), which authorizes the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program s expiration on August 31, 2018. The Company purchased   47.2 million   shares in fiscal 2017 at a total cost of $  3.8 billion   under the June 2017 stock repurchase program. The Company completed the authorized $5.0 billion of stock repurchases in October 2017. On October 24, 2017, the Company expanded the June 2017 stock repurchase program by an additional $1.0 billion. See part II, item 5 below for additional information. We determine the timing and amount of repurchases, including repurchases to offset anticipated dilution from equity incentive plans, based on our assessment of various factors, including prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, liquidity and the economic environment. We have repurchased, and may from time to time in the future repurchase, shares on the open market through Rule 10b5-1 plans, which enable us to repurchase shares at times when we otherwise might be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws.  
    
  Commercial paper 
  The Company periodically borrows under its commercial paper program and may borrow under it in future periods. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of   August 31, 2017   or   2016  . The Company did not issue any commercial paper under its commercial paper program in fiscal 2017. The Company had weighted average daily short-term borrowings of   $14 million   of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of   0.66%   in fiscal 2016. 
    
  Financing actions 
  On November 10, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Walgreens entered into a term loan credit agreement with the lenders party thereto (the  2014 Term Loan Agreement ), which provided Walgreens Boots Alliance and Walgreens with the ability to borrow up to  1.45 billion on an unsecured basis. As of   August 31, 2016  , Walgreens Boots Alliance had borrowed  1.45 billion ($1.9 billion at the   August 31, 2016   spot rate of $1.31 to  1) under the 2014 Term Loan Agreement. On August 30, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance used available cash to repay in full all outstanding loans and obligations under the 2014 Term Loan Agreement, which, as of such date, consisted of the remaining unamortized amount of  1.41 billion ($1.83 billion at the   August 31, 2017   spot rate of $1.295 to  1) aggregate principal amount of outstanding loans together with accrued interest  
  
   -   48   - 

     Table of Contents  

thereon through, but excluding, the payment date, and such other amounts required to be paid by Walgreens Boots Alliance thereunder and the 2014 Term Loan Agreement terminated in accordance with its terms.  
    
  On November 10, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Walgreens entered into a five-year unsecured, multicurrency revolving credit agreement with the lenders party thereto (the  2014 Revolving Credit Agreement ), which has available credit of $3.0 billion, of which $500 million is available for the issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the 2014 Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance s option, the alternate base rate or the reserve adjusted LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin calculated based on Walgreens Boots Alliance s credit ratings. As of   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , there were no borrowings or letters of credit issued pursuant to the 2014 Revolving Credit Agreement. 
    
  We pay, or paid in the case of the 2014 Term Loan Agreement, certain customary fees in connection with these facilities. 
    
  Walgreens guaranteed the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all obligations of Walgreens Boots Alliance under the 2014 Term Loan Agreement and the 2014 Revolving Credit Agreement until August 10, 2015, when such guarantees were unconditionally released and discharged (as described below). 
    
  On November 18, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance issued several series of unsecured, unsubordinated notes totaling $8.0 billion, with maturities ranging from 2016 to 2044. All such notes have fixed interest rates, with the exception of the $750 million floating rate notes due 2016, which were repaid in full in May 2016 and which had a floating rate based on the three month LIBOR plus a fixed spread of 45 basis points. On August 28, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance redeemed in full its $750 million 1.750% notes due 2017 at a make-whole redemption price.  
    
  On November 20, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance issued series of unsecured, unsubordinated notes that included total Pound Sterling denominated debt of  700 million ($1.1 billion based on the November 20, 2014 exchange rate) with maturities due 2020 and 2025 and Euro denominated debt of  750 million ($940 million based on the November 20, 2014 exchange rate) due 2026. All notes issued on November 20, 2014 have fixed interest rates. The notes issued on November 18, 2014 and November 20, 2014 are collectively referred to as the  2014 WBA notes . The 2014 WBA notes were, upon initial issuance, fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis by Walgreens.  
    
  On August 10, 2015, pursuant to an indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008, between Walgreens and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, Walgreens redeemed (i) $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.800% unsecured notes due 2017 and (ii) $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% unsecured notes due 2019, in each case issued by Walgreens under the indenture. As a result of these redemptions, $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% unsecured notes due 2019 remain outstanding.  
    
  On August 10, 2015, upon the completion of the redemptions described above, the Walgreens guarantees of the 2014 WBA notes, the 2014 Term Loan Agreement and the 2014 Revolving Credit Agreement were unconditionally released and discharged in accordance with their terms. 
    
  On June 1, 2016, Walgreens Boots Alliance issued in an underwritten public offering $1.2 billion of 1.750% notes due 2018 (the  2018 notes ), $1.5 billion of 2.600% notes due 2021 (the  2021 notes ), $0.8 billion of 3.100% notes due 2023 (the  2023 notes ), $1.9 billion of 3.450% notes due 2026 (the  2026 notes ) and $0.6 billion of 4.650% notes due 2046 (the  2046 notes ). Because the merger with Rite Aid was not consummated on or prior to June 1, 2017, the 2018 notes, the 2021 notes and the 2023 notes were redeemed on June 5, 2017 under the special mandatory redemption terms of the indenture governing such notes. The 2026 notes and 2046 notes remain outstanding in accordance with their respective terms and are subject to redemption in certain circumstances. 
    
  On February 1, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (as amended, the  February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement ) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and, on August 1, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into an amendment agreement thereto. The terms and conditions of the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement were unchanged by the amendment other than the extension of the facility termination date to the earlier of (a) January 31, 2019 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate commitments provided by the lenders thereunder. Borrowings under the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance s option, the alternate base rate or the reserve adjusted Eurocurrency rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin calculated based on Walgreens Boots Alliance s credit ratings. In connection with the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement, Walgreens Boots Alliance paid upfront fees of $0.5 million and additional extension fees of $0.5 million in respect of the amendment to the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement. In addition, Walgreens Boots Alliance  
  
   -   49   - 

     Table of Contents  

has agreed to pay to the lenders under the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement certain customary fees. As of August 31, 2017, there were no borrowings under the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement. 
    
  On August 24, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement (the  August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement ) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and a $1.0 billion term loan credit agreement (the  2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement  and together with the August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement, the  August 2017 Credit Agreements ) with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation. The August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement is an unsecured revolving credit facility with a facility termination date of the earlier of (a) January 31, 2019, subject to any extension thereof pursuant to the terms of the August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate commitments provided by the lenders thereunder. The 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement is an unsecured  multi-draw  term loan facility maturing on March 30, 2019. The aggregate commitments of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation under the 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement are initially equal to $1.0 billion, which shall be reduced on June 1, 2018 to the lesser of $500 million and the aggregate remaining undrawn commitments thereunder. Any remaining undrawn commitments thereunder and the ability of Walgreens Boots Alliance to request loans under such commitments shall terminate on September 1, 2018. 
    
  Borrowings under the August 2017 Credit Agreements will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin calculated based on Walgreens Boots Alliance s credit ratings. Upfront fees paid to date in connection with the August 2017 Credit Agreements totaled $1.25 million. In addition, Walgreens Boots Alliance has agreed to pay to the lenders under the August 2017 Credit Agreements certain customary fees. As of August 31, 2017, there were no borrowings under either of the August 2017 Credit Agreements. 
    
  Debt covenants 
  Each of the Company s credit facilities described above contain a covenant to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed 0.60:1.00. The credit facilities contain various other customary covenants. In the case of the 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement, such covenants are only effective after the date of initial funding. As of August 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all such applicable covenants. 
    
  Terminated Rite Aid transaction 
  In connection with the Merger Agreement with Rite Aid, which was terminated on June 28, 2017, we entered into various financing arrangements and facilities, none of which were drawn upon and all of which have been terminated. See note 8, borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
    
  As described above, because the merger with Rite Aid was not consummated on or prior to June 1, 2017, the 2018 notes, the 2021 notes and the 2023 notes issued on June 1, 2016 were redeemed on June 5, 2017 under the special mandatory redemption terms of the indenture governing such notes. Walgreens Boots Alliance was required to redeem all of such notes then outstanding, at a special mandatory redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest of approximately $1 million to, but excluding, the date of redemption.  
    
  Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, the Company paid Rite Aid the termination fee of $325 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, in full satisfaction of any amounts required to be paid by the Company under the Merger Agreement and other Transaction Documents. In connection with the termination of the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company reimbursed $25 million of Fred s transaction costs in full satisfaction of any amounts required to be paid by the Company under the Fred s Asset Purchase Agreement. 
    
  Credit ratings 
  As of October 24, 2017, the credit ratings of Walgreens Boots Alliance were: 
    
                     Rating Agency 
    Long-Term Debt Rating 
    Commercial 
  Paper Rating 
    Outlook 
      Fitch 
    BBB 
    F2 
    Stable 
      Moody s 
    Baa2 
    P-2 
    Stable 
      Standard   Poor s 
    BBB 
    A-2 
    Stable 

In assessing our credit strength, each rating agency consider various factors including our business model, capital structure, financial policies and financial performance. There can be no assurance that any particular rating will be assigned or maintained. Our credit ratings impact our borrowing costs, access to capital markets and operating lease costs. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our debt securities or commercial paper. Each rating may be  
  
   -   50   - 

     Table of Contents  

subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 
    
  AmerisourceBergen relationship 
  Pursuant to our arrangements with AmerisourceBergen, we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen over time as described under  --AmerisourceBergen Corporation relationship  above. As of   August 31, 2017  , the Company owned   56,854,867   AmerisourceBergen common shares representing approximately   26%   of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock. This includes a total of approximately 11.5 million shares of AmerisourceBergen that we purchased in the open market.  Subject to applicable legal and contractual requirements, share purchases may be made from time to time in open market transactions or pursuant to instruments and plans complying with Rule 10b5-1.  
    
  On March 18, 2016, we exercised warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.17 billion. On August 25, 2016, we exercised additional warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.19 billion. The transactions were funded using existing cash on hand. See note 5, equity method investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further information. 

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  The information set forth in note 11, commitments and contingencies to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include amounts based on management s prudent judgments and estimates. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes that any reasonable deviation from those judgments and estimates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. To the extent that the estimates used differ from actual results, however, adjustments to the statement of earnings and corresponding balance sheet accounts would be necessary. These adjustments would be made in future periods. Some of the more significant estimates include business combinations, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment, cost of sales and inventory, equity method investments, pension and postretirement benefits and income taxes. We use the following methods to determine our estimates: 
    
  Business combinations         We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control is obtained, all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, be recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. The determination of fair values of assets and liabilities acquired requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available. 
    
  For intangible assets, we generally use the income approach to determine fair value. The income approach requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: discount rates, terminal growth rates, royalty rates, forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures. The discount rates applied to the projections reflect the risk factors associated with those projections. 
    
  Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on the determination of the fair value of the intangible assets acquired. 
    
  Judgment is also required in determining the intangible asset s useful life. 
    
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment     Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. As part of our impairment analysis for each reporting unit, we determine fair value for each reporting unit. This determination includes estimating the fair value using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and discount rates. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. 

-   51   - 

     Table of Contents  

The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies, control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which we compete, discount rates, terminal growth rates, forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures. Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of any goodwill impairment charge, or both. 
    
  We also compared the sum of the estimated fair values of the reporting units to the Company s fair value as implied by the market value of the Company s equity and debt securities. This comparison indicated that, in total, our assumptions and estimates were reasonable. However, future declines in the overall market value of the Company s equity securities may indicate that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying value. 
    
  Our reporting units  fair values exceeded their carrying amounts ranging from approximately   9%   to more than   400%  . Due to the negative impact of reductions in pharmacy funding in the United Kingdom, the fair value of our Boots reporting unit, within our Retail Pharmacy International division, was impacted and is in excess of its carrying value by approximately 9%. The goodwill of the Boots reporting unit is not currently impaired and we will continue to monitor the U.K. industry trends and the impact it may have on the business. See note 7, goodwill and other intangible assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
    
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested by comparing the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized and the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. 
    
  Our indefinite-lived intangible asset fair value is estimated using the relief from royalty method and excess earnings method of the income approach. These estimates can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, availability of market information as well as our profitability. 
    
  Cost of sales and inventory     Cost of sales includes the purchase price of goods and services sold, store and warehouse inventory loss, inventory obsolescence, manufacturing costs, certain direct product design and development costs and supplier rebates. In addition to product costs, cost of sales includes manufacturing costs, warehousing costs for retail operations, purchasing costs, freight costs, cash discounts and vendor allowances. Cost of sales for our Retail Pharmacy USA segment is derived based upon point-of-sale scanning information with an estimate for shrinkage and is adjusted based on periodic inventory counts. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market determined by the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method for the Retail Pharmacy USA segment and primarily on a first-in first-out ( FIFO ) basis for inventory in the Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments. 
    
  Equity method investments          We use the equity method to account for investments in companies if the investment provides the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies of the investee. Our proportionate share of the net income or loss of these companies is included in consolidated net earnings. Judgment regarding the level of influence over each equity method investment includes considering key factors such as our ownership interest, representation on the board of directors, participation in policy-making decisions and material purchase and sale transactions. 
    
  We evaluate equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. Factors considered when reviewing an equity method investment for impairment include the length of time (duration) and the extent (severity) to which the fair value of the equity method investment has been less than cost, the investee s financial condition and near-term prospects, and the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for anticipated recovery. An impairment that is other-than-temporary is recognized in the period identified. 
    
  Pension and postretirement benefits     We have various defined benefit pension plans that cover some of our foreign employees. We also have postretirement healthcare plans that cover qualifying domestic employees. Eligibility and the level of benefits for these plans varies depending on participants  status, date of hire and or length of service. Our pension and postretirement expenses and valuations are dependent on assumptions used by our actuaries in calculating those amounts. These assumptions include discount rates, healthcare cost trends, long-term rate of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. In determining our long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, we consider both the historical performance of the investment portfolio as well as the long-term market return expectations based on the investment mix of the portfolio. A change in any of these assumptions would have an effect on our projected benefit obligation and pension expense. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate would result in a decline of $389 million to our pension benefit  
  
   -   52   - 

     Table of Contents  

obligation. A 25 basis point decrease on the expected return on plan assets assumption would increase our pension expense by $22 million. 
    
  Our policy is to fund our pension plans in accordance with applicable regulations. Our postretirement healthcare plans are not funded. 
    
  Income taxes     We are subject to routine income tax audits that occur periodically in the normal course of business. U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax authorities raise questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the tax benefits associated with our various tax filing positions, we record a tax benefit for uncertain tax positions using the highest cumulative tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. Adjustments are made to our liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the period in which we determine the issue is effectively settled with the tax authorities, the statute of limitations expires for the return containing the tax position or when more information becomes available. Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued penalties and interest, is primarily included in other long-term liabilities and current income taxes on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  
    
  In determining our provision for income taxes, we use income, permanent differences between book and tax income and enacted statutory income tax rates. The provision for income taxes rate also reflects our assessment of the ultimate outcome of tax audits in addition to any foreign-based income deemed to be taxable in the United States. Discrete events such as audit settlements or changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which they occur. 

-   53   - 

Table of Contents  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 
  The following table lists our contractual obligations and commitments at   August 31, 2017   (in millions): 

* 
    Recorded on balance sheet. 
               1   
    Amounts for operating leases and capital leases do not include certain operating expenses under these leases such as common area maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes. These expenses     were $429 million for th  e fiscal year ended   August 31, 2017  . 
        
  The information in the foregoing table is presented as of   August 31, 2017   and accordingly does not reflect obligations under agreements we entered into after that date.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 
  We do not have any unconsolidated special purpose entities and, except as described herein, we do not have significant exposure to any off-balance sheet arrangements. The term  off-balance sheet arrangement  generally means any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement to which an entity unconsolidated with us is a party, under which we have: (i) any obligation arising under a guarantee contract, derivative instrument or variable interest; or (ii) a retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to such entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support for such assets. 
    
  At   August 31, 2017  , we have issued   $280 million   in letters of credit, primarily related to insurance obligations.      We also had   $46 million   of guarantees outstanding at   August 31, 2017  . We remain secondarily liable on   70   leases. The maximum potential undiscounted future payments related to these leases was   $327 million   at   August 31, 2017  . 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
  See  new accounting pronouncements  within note 2, summary of major accounting policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements. 

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  This report and other documents that we file or furnish with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases or written statements, on the Company s website or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls, conference calls and other communications. Some of such forward-looking statements may be based on certain data and forecasts relating to our business and industry that we have obtained from internal surveys, market research, publicly available information and industry publications. Industry publications, surveys and market research generally state that the information they provide has been obtained from sources  
  
   -   54   - 

     Table of Contents  

believed to be reliable, but that the accuracy and completeness of such information is not guaranteed. Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding estimates of and goals for future financial and operating performance as well as forward-looking statements concerning the expected execution and effect of our business strategies, our cost-savings and growth initiatives and restructuring activities and the amounts and timing of their expected impact, our Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement with Rite Aid and the transactions contemplated thereby and their possible timing and effects, our commercial agreement with AmerisourceBergen, the arrangements and transactions contemplated by our framework agreement with AmerisourceBergen and their possible effects, estimates of the impact of developments on our earnings, earnings per share and other financial and operating metrics, cough, cold and flu season, prescription volume, pharmacy sales trends, prescription margins, changes in generic prescription drug prices, retail margins, number and location of new store openings, network participation, vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, possible new contracts or contract extensions, the proposed withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and its possible effects, competition, economic and business conditions, outcomes of litigation and regulatory matters, the level of capital expenditures, industry trends, demographic trends, growth strategies, financial results, cost reduction initiatives, impairment or other charges, acquisition and joint venture synergies, competitive strengths and changes in legislation or regulations. Words such as  expect,   likely,   outlook,   forecast,   preliminary,   would,   could,   should,   can,   will,   project,   intend,   plan,   goal,   guidance,   target,   aim,   continue,   sustain,   synergy,   on track,   on schedule,   headwind,   tailwind,   believe,   seek,   estimate,   anticipate,   upcoming,   to come,   may,   possible,   assume,  and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
    
  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, known or unknown, that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated or anticipated, including, but not limited to, those relating to the impact of private and public third-party payers  efforts to reduce prescription drug reimbursements, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the timing and magnitude of the impact of branded to generic drug conversions and changes in generic drug prices, our ability to realize synergies and achieve financial, tax and operating results in the amounts and at the times anticipated, supply arrangements including our commercial agreement with AmerisourceBergen, the arrangements and transactions contemplated by our framework agreement with AmerisourceBergen and their possible effects, the risks associated with our equity method investment in AmerisourceBergen, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination, cross-termination or modification of any of our contractual obligations, the amount of costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred in connection with strategic transactions, whether the costs associated with restructuring activities will exceed estimates, our ability to realize expected savings and benefits from cost-savings initiatives, restructuring activities and acquisitions and joint ventures in the amounts and at the times anticipated, the timing and amount of any impairment or other charges, the timing and severity of cough, cold and flu season, changes in management s assumptions, the risks associated with governance and control matters, the ability to retain key personnel, changes in economic and business conditions generally or in particular markets in which we participate, changes in financial markets and interest rates, the risks associated with international business operations, including the risks associated with the proposed withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the risk of unexpected costs, liabilities or delays, changes in vendor, customer and payer relationships and terms, including changes in network participation and reimbursement terms, risks of inflation in the cost of goods, risks associated with the operation and growth of our customer loyalty programs, competition, risks associated with new business areas and activities, risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and strategic investments, including those relating to the ability of the parties to satisfy the closing conditions and consummate the pending acquisition of certain Rite Aid assets and related matters on a timely basis or at all, the risks associated with the integration of complex businesses, outcomes of legal and regulatory matters, and risks associated with changes in laws, regulations or interpretations thereof. These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in item 1A.  risk factors  above and in other documents that we file or furnish with the SEC. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, we do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. 

Item 7A.    Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 
  Interest rate risk 
  We are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing debt issuances. Primary exposures include LIBOR and commercial paper rates. From time to time, we use interest rate derivative contracts including interest rate caps, interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of our financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt. Generally under these swaps, we agree with a  
  
   -   55   - 

     Table of Contents  

counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. 
    
  Information regarding our transactions are set forth in note 9, financial instruments to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. On   August 31, 2017  , we had no material long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. The amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts. 
    
  Foreign currency exchange rate risk 
  We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the British Pound Sterling and Euro, and certain other foreign currencies, including the Mexican Peso, Swiss Franc and Romanian Leu which may affect our net investment in foreign subsidiaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. We are also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the U.S. dollar. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows of certain entities denominated in foreign currencies. These transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. In addition, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions). As circumstances warrant, we also use basis swaps as hedging instruments to hedge portions of our net investments in foreign operations. The foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. A 1% increase or decrease in exchange rates would increase or decrease our pre-tax income by approximately $8 million due to changes in the value of foreign currency derivative instruments. Excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to partially hedge. 
    
  Equity price risk 
  Changes in AmerisourceBergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in AmerisourceBergen described in note 5, equity method investments to our Consolidated Financial Statements. See  -- AmerisourceBergen Corporation relationship  above. 

-   56   - 

Table of Contents  

Item 8.  Financial statements and supplementary data 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  At   August 31, 2017   and   2016 
  (in millions, except shares and per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements. 
  
   -   57   - 

Table of Contents  

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY 
  For the years ended   August 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015 
  (in millions, except shares) 

The accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements. 
  
   -   58   - 

Table of Contents  

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
  For the years ended   August 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015    
  (in millions, except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements. 
  
   -   59   - 

Table of Contents  

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  For the years ended   August 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015    
  (in millions) 

The accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements. 
  
   -   60   - 

Table of Contents  

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  For the years ended   August 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015    
  (in millions) 

-   61   - 

     Table of Contents  

The accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements. 
  
   -   62   - 

Table of Contents  

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. Organization 
  Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries are a global pharmacy-led health and wellbeing enterprise. Its operations are conducted through   three   reportable segments (Retail Pharmacy USA, Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale). See note 17, segment reporting for further information. 
    
  On December 31, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance became the successor of Walgreens pursuant to a merger designed to effect a reorganization of Walgreens into a holding company structure. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Walgreens became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance, a Delaware corporation formed for the purposes of the Reorganization, and each issued and outstanding share of Walgreens common stock converted on a   one  -to-one basis into Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. References to the  Company  refer to Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries from and after the effective time of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014 and, prior to that time, to the predecessor registrant Walgreens and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires. 
    
  On December 31, 2014, following the completion of the Reorganization, Walgreens Boots Alliance completed the acquisition of the remaining   55%   of Alliance Boots that Walgreens did not previously own in exchange for    3.133 billion   in cash and approximately   144.3 million   shares of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Alliance Boots became a consolidated subsidiary and ceased being accounted for under the equity method immediately upon completion of the Second Step Transaction. For financial reporting and accounting purposes, Walgreens Boots Alliance was the acquirer of Alliance Boots. The Consolidated Financial Statements (and other data) reflect the results of operations and financial position of Walgreens and its subsidiaries for periods prior to December 31, 2014 and of Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries for periods from and after the effective time of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014. 

2.  Summary of major accounting policies 
  Basis of presentation 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include all subsidiaries in which the Company holds a controlling interest. Investments in less than majority-owned subsidiaries in which the Company does not have a controlling interest, but does have significant influence, are accounted for as equity method investments. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. The Company bases its estimates on the information available at the time, its experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Adjustments may be made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ. 
    
  The influence of certain holidays, seasonality, foreign currency rates, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms and other factors on the Company s operations, net earnings for any period may not be comparable to the same period in previous years. With respect to the Company s Retail Pharmacy USA segment, the positive impact on gross profit margins and gross profit dollars typically has been significant in the first several months after a generic version of a drug is first allowed to compete with the branded version, which is generally referred to as a  generic conversion . In any given year, the number of major brand name drugs that undergo a conversion from branded to generic status can increase or decrease, which can have a significant impact on the Company s Retail Pharmacy USA segment s sales, gross profit margins and gross profit dollars. 
    
  Cash and cash equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Credit and debit card receivables from banks, which generally settle within   two   to   seven   business days, of   $98 million   and   $114 million   were included in cash and cash equivalents at   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  Restricted cash 
  The Company is required to maintain cash deposits with certain banks which consist of deposits restricted under contractual agency agreements and cash restricted by law and other obligations. As of   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , the amount of such restricted cash was   $202 million   and   $185 million  , respectively, and is reported in other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

-   63   - 

     Table of Contents  

Accounts receivable 
  Accounts receivable are stated net of allowances for doubtful accounts. Accounts receivable balances primarily include amounts due from third party providers (e.g., pharmacy benefit managers, insurance companies and governmental agencies), clients and members, as well as vendors and manufacturers. Charges to allowance for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of recoverability using both historical write-offs and specifically identified receivables. The allowance for doubtful accounts for fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $158 million  ,   $166 million   and   $172 million  , respectively. 
    
  Inventory 
  The Company values inventories on a lower of cost or market basis. Inventory includes product costs, inbound freight, direct labor, warehousing costs for retail pharmacy operations, overhead costs relating to the manufacture and distribution of products and vendor allowances not classified as a reduction of advertising expense. 
    
  The Company s Retail Pharmacy USA segment inventory is accounted for using the last-in-first-out ( LIFO ) method. At   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , Retail Pharmacy USA segment inventories would have been greater by   $3.0 billion   and   $2.8 billion  , respectively, if they had been valued on a lower of first-in-first-out ( FIFO ) cost or market basis. The total carrying value of the segment inventory accounted for under the LIFO method is   $5.9 billion   and   $6.1 billion   at   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  The Company s Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments  inventory is primarily accounted for using the FIFO method. The total carrying value of the inventory for Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments is   $3.0 billion   and   $2.9 billion   at   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  Equity method investments 
  The Company uses the equity method to account for investments in companies if the investment provides the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies of the investee. The Company s proportionate share of the net income or loss of these companies is included in consolidated net earnings. Judgment regarding the level of influence over each equity method investment includes considering key factors such as the Company s ownership interest, representation on the board of directors, participation in policy-making decisions and material intercompany transactions. 
    
  The Company evaluates equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. Factors considered by the Company when reviewing an equity method investment for impairment include the length of time (duration) and the extent (severity) to which the fair value of the equity method investment has been less than cost, the investee s financial condition and near-term prospects, and the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for anticipated recovery. An impairment that is other-than-temporary is recognized in the period identified. 
    
  See note 5, equity method investments for further information relating to the Company s equity method investments. 
    
  Property, plant and equipment 
  Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of owned assets. Estimated useful lives range from   20   years for land improvements,   3   to   50   for buildings and building improvements and   3   to   20   for fixtures, plant and equipment. Leasehold improvements, equipment under capital lease and capital lease properties are amortized over their respective estimate of useful life or over the term of the lease, whichever is shorter. Major repairs, which extend the useful life of an asset, are capitalized; routine maintenance and repairs are charged against earnings. The majority of the Company s fixtures and equipment uses the composite method of depreciation. Therefore, gains and losses on retirement or other disposition of such assets are included in earnings only when an operating location is closed, substantially remodeled or impaired. Property, plant and equipment consists of (in millions): 

-   64   - 

     Table of Contents  

Depreciation and amortization expense for property, plant and equipment was   $1.3 billion   in fiscal   2017  ,   $1.3 billion   in fiscal   2016   and   $1.3 billion   in fiscal   2015  . 
    
  The Company capitalizes application stage development costs for significant internally developed software projects, such as upgrades to the store point-of-sale system. These costs are amortized over a   three   to   eight   year period. Amortization expense for capitalized system development costs and software was   $245 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   $238 million   in fiscal   2016   and   $178 million   in fiscal   2015  . Unamortized costs at   August 31, 2017   and   2016   were   $0.9 billion   and   $0.9 billion  , respectively. 
    
  Business combinations 
  Business combinations are accounted for under Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 805, Business Combinations, using the acquisition method of accounting. The cost of an acquired company is assigned to the tangible and intangible assets purchased and the liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. The determination of fair values of assets and liabilities acquired requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when a market value is not readily available. Any excess of purchase price over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. The final determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities is completed within the one year measurement period as allowed under ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. Transaction costs associated with business combinations are expensed as they are incurred. 
    
  Goodwill and other intangible assets 
  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company accounts for goodwill and intangibles under ASC Topic 350, Intangibles   Goodwill and Other, which requires the Company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. 
    
  Intangible assets are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. See note 7, goodwill and other intangible assets for additional disclosure regarding the Company s intangible assets. 
    
  Warrants 
  Until their exercise in fiscal 2016, the warrants to acquire shares of AmerisourceBergen Corporation were accounted for as a derivative under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. The Company reports its warrants at fair value within other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and changes in the fair value of warrants are recognized in other income in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. A deferred credit from the day-one valuation attributable to the warrants granted to Walgreens was amortized over the life of the warrants. See note 9, financial instruments, for additional disclosure regarding the Company s warrants. 
    
  Financial instruments 
  The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and currency risks arising from operating and financing activities. In accordance with its risk management policies, the Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
    
  Derivatives are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. When the Company becomes a party to a derivative instrument and intends to apply hedge accounting, it formally documents the hedge relationship and the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge which includes designating the instrument for financial reporting purposes as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge, or a net investment hedge. The accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether the Company had designated it in a qualifying hedging relationship and on the type of hedging relationship. The Company applies the following accounting policies: 

-   65   - 

     Table of Contents  

Changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 
                
    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and reclassified into earnings in the period or periods during which the hedged item affects earnings. 
                
    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recorded in cumulative translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Recognition in earnings of amounts previously recorded in cumulative translation adjustments is limited to circumstances such as complete or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the hedged investments in foreign operations. 
                
    Changes in the fair value of a derivative not designated in a hedging relationship are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings along with the ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated in hedging relationships. 
     Cash receipts or payments on a settlement of a derivative contract are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows consistent with the nature of the underlying hedged item. 
    
  For derivative instruments designated as hedges, the Company assesses, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. Highly effective means that cumulative changes in the fair value of the derivative are between   80%   and   125%   of the cumulative changes in the fair value of the hedged item. In addition, when the Company determines that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued. When it is probable that a hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, the Company discontinues hedge accounting for the affected portion of the forecasted transaction, and reclassifies any gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. When a derivative in a hedge relationship is terminated or the hedged item is sold, extinguished or terminated, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. 
    
  Impaired assets 
  The Company tests long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that a certain asset may be impaired. Once identified, the amount of the impairment is computed by comparing the carrying value of the assets to the fair value, which is primarily based on the discounted estimated future cash flows. Impairment charges included in selling, general and administrative expenses were   $234 million   in fiscal   2017  , primarily related to the Company s Cost Transformation Program (as defined below). Impairment charges recognized in fiscal   2016   and   2015   were   $305 million   and   $386 million  , respectively. 
    
  Liabilities for store closings 
  The Company provides for future costs related to closed locations. The liability is based on the present value of future rent obligations and other related costs (net of estimated sublease rent) to the first lease option date. The reserve for store closings, including locations closed under the Company s restructuring actions, was   $718 million   as of   August 31, 2017   and   $466 million   as of   August 31, 2016  . See note 4, leases for additional disclosure regarding the Company s reserve for future costs related to closed locations. 
    
  Pension and postretirement benefits 
  The Company has various defined benefit pension plans that cover some of its foreign employees. The Company also has postretirement healthcare plans that cover qualifying domestic employees. Eligibility and the level of benefits for these plans vary depending participants  status, date of hire and or length of service. Pension and postretirement expenses and valuations are dependent on assumptions used by third party actuaries in calculating those amounts. These assumptions include discount rates, healthcare cost trends, long-term return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. See note 14, retirement benefits, for additional disclosure regarding the Company s pension and postretirement benefits. 
    
  The Company funds its pension plans in accordance with applicable regulations. 
    
  Noncontrolling interests 
  The Company accounts for its less than   100%   interest in consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with ASC Topic 810, Consolidation, and accordingly, the Company presents noncontrolling interests as a component of equity on its Consolidated  
  
   -   66   - 

     Table of Contents  

Balance Sheets and reports the portion of its earnings or loss for noncontrolling interest as net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 
    
  Currency 
  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations are translated into U.S. dollars at end-of-period exchange rates while revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated at average monthly exchange rates over the period. Equity is translated at historical exchange rates and the resulting cumulative translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
    
  For U.S. dollar functional currency operations, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at end-of-period exchange rates, except for nonmonetary balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured from historical exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are recorded at average monthly exchange rates over the period, except for those expenses related to nonmonetary balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured from historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement and transactions are included in selling, general and administrative expenses within the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For all periods presented, there were no material operational gains or losses from foreign currency transactions. 
    
  Revenue recognition 
  Revenue is recognized when: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii) the seller s price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. The following revenue recognition policies have been established for the Company s reportable segments. 
    
  Retail Pharmacy USA and Retail Pharmacy International 
  The Company recognizes revenue at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise, after making appropriate adjustments for estimated returns. Revenue does not include sales related taxes. In certain international locations, the Company initially estimates revenue based on expected reimbursements from governmental agencies for dispensing prescription drugs and providing optical services. The estimates are based on historical experience and are updated to actual reimbursement amounts. 
    
  Pharmaceutical Wholesale 
  Wholesale revenue is recognized upon shipment of goods, which is generally also the day of delivery. When the Company acts in the capacity of an agent or a logistics service provider, revenue is the fee received for the service and is recognized when the services have been performed. The Company has determined it is the agent when providing logistics services, which is based on its assessment of the following criteria: (i) whether it is the primary obligor in the arrangement, (ii) whether it has latitude in establishing the price, changing the product or performing part of the service, (iii) whether it has discretion in supplier selection, (iv) whether it is involved in the determination of service specifications and (v) whether it is exposed to credit risk. 
    
  Cost of sales 
  Cost of sales includes the purchase price of goods and services sold, store and warehouse inventory loss, inventory obsolescence, manufacturing costs, certain direct product design and development costs and supplier rebates. In addition to product costs, cost of sales includes manufacturing costs, warehousing costs for retail operations, purchasing costs, freight costs, cash discounts and vendor allowances. Cost of sales for our Retail Pharmacy USA segment is derived based upon point-of-sale scanning information with an estimate for shrinkage and is adjusted based on periodic inventory counts. 
    
  Vendor allowances and supplier rebates 
  Vendor allowances are principally received as a result of purchases, sales or promotion of vendors  products. Allowances are generally recorded as a reduction of inventory and are recognized as a reduction of cost of sales when the related merchandise is sold. Those allowances received for promoting vendors  products are offset against advertising expense and result in a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses to the extent of advertising costs incurred, with the excess treated as a reduction of inventory costs. 
    
  Rebates or refunds received by the Company from its suppliers, mostly in cash, are considered as an adjustment of the prices of the supplier s products purchased by the Company. 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses mainly consist of salaries and employee costs, occupancy costs, depreciation and amortization, credit and debit card fees and expenses directly related to stores. In addition, other costs included are headquarters  expenses, advertising costs (net of vendor advertising allowances), wholesale warehousing costs and insurance. 

-   67   - 

     Table of Contents  

Advertising costs 
  Advertising costs, which are reduced by the portion funded by vendors, are expensed as incurred or when services have been received. Net advertising expenses, which are included in selling, general and administrative expenses, were   $571 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   $598 million   in fiscal   2016   and   $491 million   in fiscal   2015  . 
    
  Loyalty programs 
  The Company s loyalty rewards programs are accrued as a charge to cost of sales at the time a point is earned. Points are funded internally and through vendor participation and are credited to cost of sales at the time a vendor-sponsored point is earned. Breakage is recorded as points expire as a result of a member s inactivity or if the points remain unredeemed after a certain period in accordance with the terms of the loyalty rewards program. Breakage income, which is reported in cost of sales, was not significant in fiscal   2017  ,   2016   or   2015  . 
    
  Insurance 
  The Company obtains insurance coverage for catastrophic exposures as well as those risks required by law to be insured. In general, the Company s U.S. subsidiaries retain a significant portion of losses related to workers  compensation, property, comprehensive general, pharmacist and vehicle liability, while non-U.S. subsidiaries manage their exposures through insurance coverage with third-party carriers. Management regularly reviews the probable outcome of claims and proceedings, the expenses expected to be incurred, the availability and limits of the insurance coverage and the established accruals for liabilities. Liabilities for losses are recorded based upon the Company s estimates for both claims incurred and claims incurred but not reported and are not discounted. The provisions are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors and other actuarial assumptions. 
    
  Stock compensation plans 
  In accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation   Stock Compensation, the Company recognizes compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the employee s vesting period or to the employee s retirement eligible date, if earlier. See note 13, stock compensation plans for more information on the Company s stock-based compensation plans. 
    
  Income taxes 
  The Company accounts for income taxes according to the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based upon the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured pursuant to tax laws using rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts more likely than not to be realized. 
    
  In determining the provision for income taxes, the Company uses income, permanent differences between book and tax income, the relative proportion of foreign and domestic income, enacted statutory income tax rates, projections of income subject to Subpart F rules and unrecognized tax benefits related to current year results. Discrete events such as the assessment of the ultimate outcome of tax audits, audit settlements, recognizing previously unrecognized tax benefits due to lapsing of the applicable statute of limitations, recognizing or de-recognizing benefits of deferred tax assets due to future year financial statement projections and changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which they occur. 
    
  The Company is subject to routine income tax audits that occur periodically in the normal course of business. U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax authorities raise questions regarding the Company s tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the tax benefits associated with the various tax filing positions, the Company records a tax benefit for uncertain tax positions using the highest cumulative tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. Adjustments are made to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the period in which the Company determines the issue is effectively settled with the tax authorities, the statute of limitations expires for the return containing the tax position or when more information becomes available. 
    
  Earnings per share 
  The dilutive effect of outstanding stock options on earnings per share is calculated using the treasury stock method. Stock options are anti-dilutive and excluded from the earnings per share calculation if the exercise price exceeds the average market price of the common shares. Outstanding options to purchase common shares that were anti-dilutive and excluded from earnings per share totaled   3.9 million  ,   2.5 million   and   2.5 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  New accounting pronouncements 

-   68   - 

     Table of Contents  

Adoption of new accounting pronouncements 
    
  Modifications of share-based payments 
  In May 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2017-09, Compensation   Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting. This ASU clarifies which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. Specifically, an entity would not apply modification accounting if the fair value, vesting conditions, and classification of the awards are the same immediately before and after the modification. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interims periods within those fiscal years. The Company early adopted this guidance on a prospective basis during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. The adoption did not have any impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 
  Simplifying the test for goodwill impairment 
  In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2017-04, Intangibles   Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. This ASU requires the Company to perform its annual, or applicable interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge must be recognized at the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit; however, the charge recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Income tax effects resulting from any tax deductible goodwill should be considered when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. This ASU is effective for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (fiscal 2021). The Company early adopted this guidance on a prospective basis during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The adoption did not have any impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 
    
  Clarifying the definition of a business 
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business. This ASU clarifies the definition of a business in order to assist companies in the evaluation of whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The amended guidance also removes the existing evaluation of a market participant s ability to replace missing elements and narrows the definition of output to achieve consistency with other topics. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 (fiscal 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company early adopted this guidance on a prospective basis during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The adoption did not have any impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 
    
  Interests held through related parties under common control 
  In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-17, Consolidation (Topic 810): Interests Held through Related Parties That Are under Common Control. This ASU amends the consolidation guidance on how a reporting entity that is the single decision maker of a variable interest entity ( VIE ) should treat indirect interests in the entity held through related parties that are under common control with the reporting entity when determining whether it is the primary beneficiary of that VIE. Under the amendments, a single decision maker is not required to consider indirect interests held through related parties that are under common control with the single decision maker to be the equivalent of direct interests in their entirety. Instead, a single decision maker is required to include those interests on a proportionate basis consistent with indirect interests held through other related parties. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 (fiscal 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company early adopted this guidance on a modified retrospective basis during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The adoption did not have any impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 
    
  Share-based payment accounting 
  In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation   Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU simplifies the employee share-based payment accounting of stock compensation, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Amendments requiring recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in the income statement and the practical expedient for estimating expected term must be applied prospectively. Amendments related to the presentation of employee taxes paid on the statement of cash flows when an employer withholds shares to meet the minimum statutory withholding requirement must be applied retrospectively. An entity may elect to apply the amendments related to the presentation of excess tax benefits on the statement of cash flows using either a prospective transition method or a retrospective transition method. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 (fiscal 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company early adopted this guidance on a prospective basis during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 
  
   -   69   - 

     Table of Contents  

New accounting pronouncements not yet adopted 
    
  Accounting for hedging activities 
  In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivative and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities. This ASU expands an entity s ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components and reduces complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk. It eliminates the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and generally requires the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item. It also eases certain documentation and assessment requirements and modifies the accounting for components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (fiscal 2020), and interims periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The new guidance with respect to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships existing on the date of adoption must be applied on a modified retrospective basis, and the new presentation and disclosure requirements must be applied on a prospective basis. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a significant impact on Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 
    
  Presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost 
  In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Compensation   Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. This ASU requires an employer to report the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement cost in the same line item in the statement of earnings as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the related employees during the period. The other net cost components are required to be presented in the statement of earnings separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations. Additionally, the line item used in the statement of earnings to present the other net cost components must be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interims periods within those fiscal years, and must be applied on a retrospective basis. The Company is evaluating the effect of adopting this new accounting guidance but does not expect adoption to have a material impact on the Company s results of operations. 
    
  Restricted cash 
  In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. This ASU requires that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The new guidance must be applied on a retrospective basis. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a significant impact on Company s consolidated statement of cash flows. 
    
  Tax accounting for intra-entity asset transfers 
  In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. Topic 740, Income Taxes, prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party. In addition, interpretations of this guidance have developed in practice for transfers of certain intangible and tangible assets. This prohibition on recognition is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP. To more faithfully represent the economics of intra-entity asset transfers, the amendments in this ASU require that entities recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The amendments in this ASU do not change GAAP for the pre-tax effects of an intra-entity asset transfer under Topic 810, Consolidation, or for an intra-entity transfer of inventory. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The new guidance must be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment recognized directly to retained earnings as of the date of adoption. The Company is evaluating the effect of adopting this new accounting guidance. 
    
  Classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments 
  In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This ASU addresses the classification of certain specific cash flow issues including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, settlement of certain debt instruments, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of certain insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period  
  
   -   70   - 

     Table of Contents  

and must be applied on a retrospective basis. The Company is evaluating the effect this ASU will have on its consolidated statement of cash flows. 
    
  Recognition of breakage for prepaid stored-value products 
  In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-04, Liabilities   Extinguishments of Liabilities (Subtopic 405-20): Recognition of Breakage for Certain Prepaid Stored-Value Products. This ASU addresses diversity in practice related to the derecognition of a prepaid store-value product liability. The ASU amends the guidance on extinguishing financial liabilities for certain prepaid store-value products. If an entity selling prepaid store-value products expects to be entitled to an amount that will not be redeemed, the entity will recognize the expected breakage in proportion to the pattern of rights expected to be exercised by the product holder to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of the breakage amount will not subsequently occur. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption before the effective date of ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (described below). The amendments in this ASU should be applied either on a modified retrospective basis by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment recognized directly to retained earnings as of the date of adoption or retrospectively to each period presented. The Company is evaluating the effect the ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Leases 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes Topic 840, Leases. This ASU increases the transparency and comparability of organizations by requiring the capitalization of substantially all leases on the balance sheet and disclosures of key information about leasing arrangements. Under this new guidance, at the lease commencement date, a lessee recognizes a right-of-use asset and lease liability, which is initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments. For income statement purposes, a dual model was retained for lessees, requiring leases to be classified as either operating or finance leases. Under the operating lease model, lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Under the finance lease model, interest on the lease liability is recognized separately from amortization of the right-of-use asset. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (fiscal 2020), and interim periods within those fiscal years. In transition, lessees are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented (fiscal 2018) using a modified retrospective approach which includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.  
  The Company will adopt this ASU on September 1, 2019 (fiscal 2020). The Company has begun evaluating and planning for adoption and implementation of this ASU, including selecting a new lease accounting system, evaluating practical expedient and accounting policy elections, and assessing the overall financial statement impact. This ASU will have a material impact on the Company s financial position. The impact on the Company s results of operations is being evaluated. The impact of this ASU is non-cash in nature and will not affect the Company s cash flows. 
    
  Classification and measurement of financial instruments 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments   Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. This ASU requires equity investments (except those under the equity method of accounting or those that result in the consolidation of an investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. However, an entity may choose to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. This simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments previous held at cost. Separate presentation of financial assets and liabilities by measurement category is required. This ASU is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early application is permitted, for fiscal years or interim periods that have not yet been issued as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is evaluating the effect of adopting this new accounting guidance but does not expect adoption to have a material impact on the Company s results of operations. 
                                  
  Measurement of inventory 
  In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory. This ASU simplifies current accounting treatments by requiring entities to measure most inventories at  the lower of cost and net realizable value  rather than using lower of cost or market. This guidance does not apply to inventories measured using last-in, first-out method or the retail inventory method. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 (fiscal 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is adopting this guidance on a prospective basis at the beginning of fiscal 2018 and does not expect adoption will have a material impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 

-   71   - 

     Table of Contents  

Revenue recognition on contracts with customers 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This ASU provides a single principles-based revenue recognition model with a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Subsequently, the FASB has issued additional ASUs which further clarify this guidance and also defer the effective date by one year to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (fiscal 2019), and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company continues to evaluate the impact this ASU, the related amendments and the interpretive guidance will have on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company continues to evaluate the method of adoption. Based on preliminary assessment, the Company believes the impact of adopting the new guidance will not be material to its consolidated financial statements, and that the impact will be limited to immaterial changes to the timing of recognition of revenues related to loyalty programs and gift cards, in addition to disaggregated revenue disclosures. The Company will adopt this ASU on September 1, 2018 (fiscal 2019). 

3. Exit and disposal activities 
  On April 8, 2015, the Walgreens Boots Alliance Board of Directors approved a plan to implement a restructuring program (the  Cost Transformation Program ) as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. The Cost Transformation Program implemented and built on the cost-reduction initiative previously announced by the Company on August 6, 2014 and included plans to close stores across the U.S.; reorganize corporate and field operations; drive operating efficiencies; and streamline information technology and other functions. The actions under the Cost Transformation Program focused primarily on the Retail Pharmacy USA segment, but included activities from all segments. The Company completed the Cost Transformation Program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and over the duration of the program, closed a total of   255   stores. The Company recognized cumulative pre-tax charges to its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( GAAP ) of   $1.8 billion  , which were primarily recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses. These charges included   $743 million   related to asset impairment charges,   $665 million   in real estate costs and   $393 million   in severance and other business transition and exit costs.  
    
  The Company incurred pre-tax charges of   $835 million   related to the Cost Transformation Program during fiscal 2017. The Company incurred pre-tax charges of   $424 million   related to the Cost Transformation Program during fiscal 2016. The Company incurred pre-tax charges of   $542 million   related to the Cost Transformation Program during fiscal 2015. Restructuring charges are recognized as the costs are incurred in accordance with GAAP. 
    
  Restructuring costs by segment are as follows (in millions): 

-   72   - 

     Table of Contents  

The changes in accrued expenses and other liabilities related to the Cost Transformation Program include the following (in millions): 

4. Leases 
  Initial terms for leased premises in the U.S. are typically   15   to   25   years, followed by additional terms containing renewal options at   five  -year intervals, and may include rent escalation clauses. Non-U.S. leases are typically for shorter terms and may include cancellation clauses or renewal options. The commencement date of all lease terms is the earlier of the date the Company becomes legally obligated to make rent payments or the date the Company has the right to control the property. The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. In addition to minimum fixed rentals, some leases provide for contingent rentals based upon a portion of sales. 
    
  The Company continuously evaluates its real estate portfolio in conjunction with its capital needs. The Company has entered into several sale-leaseback transactions. In fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the Company recorded proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions of   $444 million  ,   $60 million   and   $867 million  , respectively. In other transactions, the Company negotiated fixed rate renewal options which constitute a form of continuing involvement, resulting in the assets remaining on the balance sheet and a corresponding finance lease obligation. 
    
  Annual minimum rental commitments under all leases having an initial or remaining non-cancelable term of more than one year are shown below (in millions): 

1            Includes $  1,370 million   of annual minimum rental commitments on closed locations for which a reserve for facility closings has been recognized 
    
  The capital and finance lease amounts include   $859 million   of imputed interest and executory costs. Total minimum lease payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of   $270 million   on leases due in the future under noncancelable subleases. 
    
  The Company provides for future costs related to closed locations. The liability is based on the present value of future rent obligations and other related costs (net of estimated sublease rent) to the first lease option date. In fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the Company recorded charges of   $394 million  ,   $127 million   and   $252 million  , respectively, for facilities that were closed or relocated under long-term leases, including stores closed through the Company s Cost Transformation Program. These charges are reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 

-   73   - 

     Table of Contents  

The changes in reserve for facility closings and related lease termination charges include the following (in millions): 

The Company remains secondarily liable on   70   leases. For leases on which the Company remains secondarily liable, the maximum potential undiscounted future payments are   $327 million   at   August 31, 2017  . These lease option dates vary, with some lease terms extending up to 2039. 
    
  Rental expense, which includes common area maintenance, insurance and taxes, where appropriate, was as follows (in millions): 

5. Equity method investments 
  Equity method investments as of   August 31, 2017   and   2016   were as follows (in millions, except percentages): 

AmerisourceBergen investment 
  As of   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , the Company owned   56,854,867   AmerisourceBergen common shares, representing approximately   26%   and   24%   of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock, respectively. The Company accounts for its equity investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, with the net earnings attributable to the Company s investment being classified within the operating income of its Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. Due to the timing and availability of financial information of AmerisourceBergen the Company accounts for this equity method investment on a financial reporting lag of two months. Equity earnings from AmerisourceBergen is reported as a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The level 1 fair market value of the Company s equity investment in AmerisourceBergen common stock at   August 31, 2017   is   $4.6 billion  . 
    
  The Company s investment in AmerisourceBergen carrying value exceeded its proportionate share of the net assets of AmerisourceBergen by   $4.4 billion  . This premium of   $4.4 billion   was recognized as part of the carrying value in the Company s equity investment in AmerisourceBergen. The difference was primarily related to goodwill and the fair value of AmerisourceBergen intangible assets. 
                                            
  Other investments 
  The Company s other equity method investments include its investments in Guangzhou Pharmaceuticals Corporation and Nanjing Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited, the Company s pharmaceutical wholesale investments in China; and the equity method investment retained through the sale of a majority interest in Option Care Inc. in fiscal 2015. The Company reported   $8  
  
   -   74   - 

     Table of Contents  

million  ,   $44 million   and   $24 million   of post-tax equity earnings from equity method investments other than AmerisourceBergen and Alliance Boots for fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and 2015 respectively.  
    
  The Company accounted for its   45%   investment in Alliance Boots using the equity method of accounting until December 31, 2014. The Company utilized a three-month reporting lag in recording equity income in Alliance Boots, which was eliminated as of December 31, 2014. The Company s share of Alliance Boots earnings was recorded as equity earnings in Alliance Boots in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The Company s investment was recorded as equity investment in Alliance Boots in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
    
  Summarized financial information 
  Summarized financial information for the Company s equity method investments in aggregate is as follows: 
    
  Balance sheet (in millions) 

Statements of earnings (in millions) 

The summarized financial information for equity method investments has been included on an aggregated basis for all investments as reported at the end of each fiscal year end.  
    
              3   
    Statements of earnings in foreign equity method investments are translated at their respective average exchange rates. 

6. Acquisitions 
  Acquisition of certain Rite Aid assets 
  On June 28, 2017, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Rite Aid, pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire   2,186   stores,   three   distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid.  
    
  On September 19, 2017, the Company announced that it had secured regulatory clearance for an amended and restated asset purchase agreement to purchase   1,932   stores,   three   distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid for   $4.375 billion   in cash and other consideration. As of the date of this report, the first few Rite Aid stores have been acquired. As at August 31, 2017, the Company has not completed a preliminary analysis to assign fair values to tangible and intangible assets acquired. Ownership of stores is expected to be transferred in phases in fiscal 2018. These transfers remain subject to closing conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement.  
    
  The Company will account for this transaction as a business combination. 

-   75   - 

     Table of Contents  

AllianceRx Walgreens Prime 
  On March 31, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance and pharmacy benefit manager Prime closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, as part of a strategic alliance. AllianceRx Walgreens Prime is consolidated by Walgreens Boots Alliance and reported within the Retail Pharmacy USA division in its financial statements. The Company accounted for this acquisition of Prime s specialty pharmacy and mail services business as a business combination involving non-cash purchase consideration of   $720 million   consisting of the issuance of an equity interest in AllianceRx Walgreens Prime. 
    
  As of   August 31, 2017  , the Company had not completed the analysis to determine the fair value of the consideration acquired or to assign fair values to all tangible and intangible assets acquired, and therefore the purchase price allocation has not been completed. The preliminary purchase price allocation will be subject to further refinement and may result in material changes. These changes will primarily relate to the allocation of consideration and the fair value assigned to all tangible and intangible assets acquired and identified. The following table summarizes the consideration for the acquisition and the preliminary amounts of identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the transaction (in millions). 
                     Total consideration 
    $ 
    720 

Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed  
      
      Accounts receivable 
    $ 
    217 
      
      Inventories 
    149 
      
      Property, plant and equipment 
    11 
      
      Intangible assets 
    331 
      
      Trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities  
    (91 
    ) 
      Total identifiable net assets 
    617 
      
      Goodwill 
    $ 
    103 

The preliminary identified intangible assets primarily include payer contracts. These contracts are estimated to have a weighted average useful life of   15   years. The preliminary goodwill of   $103 million   arising from the transaction consists of expected purchasing synergies, operating efficiencies by benchmarking performance and applying best practices across the combined company, consolidation of operations, reductions in selling, general and administrative expenses and combining workforces. Substantially all of the goodwill recognized is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. 
    
  In accordance with ASC Topic 810, Consolidation, the noncontrolling interest was recognized based on its proportionate interest in the identifiable net assets of AllianceRx Walgreens Prime. The difference between the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest and the fair value recognized as consideration in the business combination is recognized as additional paid in capital. 
    
  The Company incurred legal, professional services, and other costs related to the transaction, which were included in selling, general and administrative expenses, of   $14 million   in fiscal 2017. 
    
  Pro forma net earnings and sales of the Company, assuming the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each period presented, would not be materially different from the results reported. The acquisition did not have a material impact on net earnings or sales of the Company for fiscal   2017  . 
    
  Alliance Boots 
  The Second Step Transaction closed on December 31, 2014, resulting in the acquisition by the Company of   55%   of the issued and outstanding share capital of Alliance Boots, increasing its interest to   100%  . The Company previously accounted for its   45%   interest in Alliance Boots as an equity method investment.  
    
  As a result of the closing of the Second Step Transaction, the Company increased its ownership in WBAD, a global sourcing enterprise between Walgreens and Alliance Boots, to   100%  . Because Walgreens held, prior to the Second Step Transaction, a   50%   direct interest and an additional indirect interest in WBAD through its   45%   ownership of Alliance Boots, the financial results of WBAD were fully consolidated into the Walgreens financial statements with the remaining   27.5%   effective interest being recorded as a noncontrolling interest. The acquisition of the   27.5%   noncontrolling interest was accounted for as an equity transaction with no gain or loss recorded in the statement of earnings under ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations.  

-   76   - 

     Table of Contents  

On January 1, 2015, WBAD Holdings Limited sold   320   common shares of WBAD, representing approximately   5%   of the equity interests in WBAD, to Alliance Healthcare Italia Distribuzione S.p.A. ( AHID ), which is not a member of the Company s consolidated group. Under certain circumstances, AHID has the right to put, and WBAD Holdings Limited has the right to call, the   320   common shares of WBAD currently owned by AHID for a purchase price of   $100,000  . 
    
  The Company has completed the purchase accounting of the Second Step Transaction. The total purchase price of the Second Step Transaction of   $15.9 billion   included    3.133 billion   in cash (  $4.9 billion   at the December 31, 2014 spot rate of   $1.56   to    1.00  ) and   144.3 million   of the Company s common shares at a fair value of   $11.0 billion   (based on the December 30, 2014 closing market price of   $76.05  ). Of the total purchase price,   $13.3 billion   was allocated to acquire the   55%   ownership interest in Alliance Boots and   $2.6 billion   was allocated to acquire the noncontrolling interest in WBAD. The purchase price attributed to the acquisition of the noncontrolling interest in WBAD was determined based on the relative fair value of Alliance Boots and WBAD, respectively. 
    
  The impact of the equity transaction is as follows (in millions): 

Amount 
      Consideration attributed to WBAD 
    $ 
    2,559 
      
      Less: carrying value of the Company s pre-existing noncontrolling interest 
    130 
      
      Impact to additional paid in capital 
    2,429 

The following table summarizes the consideration paid to acquire the remaining   55%   interest in Alliance Boots and the amounts of identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the Second Step Transaction (in millions). 

-   77   - 

     Table of Contents  

As a result of the Company acquiring the remaining   55%   interest in Alliance Boots, the Company s previously held   45%   interest was re-measured at fair value, resulting in a gain of   $563 million  . The gain has been recognized as Gain on previously held equity interest in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015. 
    
  The fair value of the previously held equity interest of   $8.1 billion   in Alliance Boots was determined using the income approach methodology. The fair value for trade names and trademarks was determined using the relief from royalty method of the income approach; pharmacy licenses and customer relationships were determined using the excess earnings method of the income approach; and loyalty card holders were determined using the incremental cash flow method, which is a form of the income approach. Personal property fair values were determined primarily using the indirect cost approach, while real property fair values were determined using the income, market and/or cost approach. The fair value measurements of the previously held equity interest and intangible assets are based on significant inputs not observable in the market, and thus represent Level 3 measurements. The fair value estimates for the previously held equity interest and intangible assets are based on (i) projected discounted cash flows, (ii) historical and projected financial information, (iii) synergies including cost savings, and (iv) attrition rates, as relevant, that market participants would consider when estimating fair values. 
    
  The identified definite and indefinite lived intangible assets were as follows: 

The goodwill of   $14.9 billion   arising from the Second Step Transaction primarily reflects the expected purchasing synergies, operating efficiencies by benchmarking performance and applying best practices across the Company, consolidation of operations, reductions in selling, general and administrative expenses and combining workforces. 
    
  Following the completion of the Second Step Transaction, the Company realigned its operations into   three   reportable segments: Retail Pharmacy USA, Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale. The Company determined that the goodwill should be allocated across all segments recognizing that each segment will benefit from the expected synergies. 
    
  The goodwill allocated to the Retail Pharmacy USA segment of   $7.3 billion   is comprised of   $3.5 billion   of synergy benefits allocable to the segment on a source of procurement benefit basis and   $3.8 billion   determined on a  with-and-without  basis. The source of procurement benefit basis allocates the synergy benefits to the segment whose purchase gave rise to the benefit. The  with-and-without  basis computes the difference between the fair value of the pre-existing business before the combination and its fair value after the combination. 
    
  Of the remaining goodwill,   $3.9 billion   was allocated to the Retail Pharmacy International segment and   $3.7 billion   was allocated to the Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. Substantially all of the goodwill recognized is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. 
    
  The Company incurred legal and other professional services costs related to the Second Step Transaction, which were included in selling, general and administrative expenses, of   $87 million   in fiscal 2015. 
    
  The fair value of the assets acquired includes inventory having an estimated fair value of   $3.7 billion  . This fair value includes a   $106 million   fair value adjustment to capitalize the estimated profit in acquired finished goods inventory as of the date of the Second Step Transaction, which was expensed to cost of sales over the first inventory turn. 

-   78   - 

     Table of Contents  

The following table presents supplemental unaudited condensed pro forma consolidated information for 2015 and 2014 as if the Second Step Transaction had occurred on September 1, 2013, the first day of the Company s fiscal 2014. The unaudited condensed pro forma information reflect certain adjustments related to past operating performance and acquisition accounting adjustments, such as increased amortization expense based on the fair valuation of assets acquired, the impact of acquisition financing, transaction costs and the related income tax effects. The unaudited condensed pro forma information does not include any anticipated synergies that may be achievable subsequent to the date of the Second Step Transaction. The unaudited condensed pro forma information also excludes certain non-recurring items such as transaction related costs. Accordingly, the unaudited condensed pro forma information has been prepared for comparative purposes only and is not intended to be indicative of what the Company s results would have been had the Second Step Transaction occurred at the beginning of the periods presented or the results which may occur in the future. 

Actual results from Alliance Boots operations included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings since December 31, 2014, the date of the Second Step Transaction, are as follows (in millions, except per share amounts): 

7. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
  Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. As part of the Company s impairment analysis, we determined fair value for each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and discount rates. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. Based on the results of our testing, the fair values of each of the reporting units and other indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their carrying values, therefore, no impairment was recognized. 
    
  The determination of the fair value of the reporting units and the allocation of that value to individual assets and liabilities within those reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Company competes; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures. The allocation requires analyses to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities including, among other things, trade names and trademarks, pharmacy licenses, customer relationships and purchased prescription files. Although the Company believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, or both.  

-   79   - 

     Table of Contents  

Our reporting units  fair values exceeded their carrying amounts ranging from   9%   to more than   400%  . The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. Due to the negative impact of reductions in pharmacy funding in the United Kingdom, the fair value of our Boots reporting unit, within our Retail Pharmacy International division, was impacted and is in excess of its carrying value by approximately   9%  . The goodwill of the Boots reporting unit is not currently impaired and we will continue to monitor the U.K. industry trends and the impact it may have on the business. 
    
  Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment consist of the following activity (in millions): 

1   
    Other primarily represents the reallocation of goodwill between reporting units and purchase accounting adjustments for prior year acquisitions. 
       
  In fiscal   2017  , Walgreens Boots Alliance and Prime closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, as part of a strategic alliance resulting in an increase of   $103 million   to goodwill and   $331 million   to intangible assets. See note 6, acquisitions, for additional information. 

-   80   - 

     Table of Contents  

The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of intangible assets consists of the following (in millions): 

Amortization expense for intangible assets was   $385 million  ,   $396 million   and   $480 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  Estimated future annual amortization expense for the next five fiscal years for intangible assets recorded at   August 31, 2017   is as follows (in millions): 

-   81   - 

Table of Contents  

8. Borrowings 
  Borrowings consist of the following (all amounts are presented in millions of U.S. dollars and debt issuances are denominated in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted) 

1   
    Carry values are presented net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, where applicable, and foreign currency denominated borrowings have been translated using the spot rates at   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
               2   
    Other short-term borrowings represent a mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings with various maturities and working capital facilities denominated in various currencies. 
               3   
    Notes are unsubordinated debt obligations of Walgreens Boots Alliance and rank equally in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Walgreens Boots Alliance from time to time outstanding. 
                5   
    Includes interest rate swap fair market value adjustments. See note 10, fair value measurements for additional fair value disclosures. 
               6   
    Other long-term debt represents a mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings in various currencies with various maturities. 
     
   -   82   - 

     Table of Contents  

7   
    Notes are senior debt obligations of Walgreens and rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Walgreens. On December 31, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance fully and unconditionally guaranteed the outstanding notes on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis. The guarantee, for so long as it is in place, is an unsecured, unsubordinated debt obligation of Walgreens Boots Alliance and will rank equally in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Walgreens Boots Alliance. 
       
  At   August 31, 2017  , the future maturities of short-term borrowing and long-term debt, excluding debt discounts and issuance costs and financing and capital lease obligations (see note 4, leases, for the future lease obligation maturities), consisted of the following ($ in millions): 

Bridge Credit Agreement, 2015 Term Loan Credit Agreement and 2016 Term Loan Credit Agreement 
  In connection with the Merger Agreement, on December 18, 2015, the Company entered into a   364  -day unsecured bridge term loan facility with initial aggregate commitments of   $7.8 billion   (as amended, the  Bridge Credit Agreement ) and a   $5.0 billion   unsecured term loan facility (as amended, the  2015 Term Loan Credit Agreement ) and on August 30, 2016, the Company entered into a   $1.0 billion   senior unsecured term loan facility (the  2016 Term Loan Credit Agreement ). On January 27, 2017, each of the Bridge Credit Agreement, the 2015 Term Loan Credit Agreement, and the 2016 Term Loan Credit Agreement terminated in accordance with its terms.  
    
  $6.0 billion note issuance 
  On June 1, 2016, Walgreens Boots Alliance received net proceeds (after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses) of   $6.0 billion   from a public offering of   five   series of U.S. dollar notes with varying maturities and interest rates. Total issuance costs relating to the notes, including underwriting discounts and offering expenses, were   $30 million  . Because the merger with Rite Aid was not consummated on or prior to June 1, 2017, the 2018 notes, the 2021 notes and the 2023 notes were redeemed on June 5, 2017 under the special mandatory redemption terms of the indenture governing such notes. Walgreens Boots Alliance was required to redeem all of the 2018 notes, the 2021 notes and the 2023 notes then outstanding, at a special mandatory redemption price equal to   101%   of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest of approximately   $1 million   to, but excluding, the date of redemption. The 2026 notes and 2046 notes remain outstanding in accordance with their respective terms and are subject to redemption in certain circumstances. 
    
  Backstop Commitment Letter, Backstop Credit Agreement and 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreements 
  In connection with Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement, on January 31, 2017, the Company entered into (i) a   $5.0 billion   backstop facility commitment letter (the  Backstop Commitment Letter ) and (ii) a   $5.0 billion   unsecured bridge term loan facility (the  Backstop Credit Agreement ). Upon entry into the Backstop Credit Agreement, the Backstop Commitment Letter and the commitments contemplated thereby terminated. On February 22, 2017, the Company entered into (a) a   $4.8 billion   unsecured term loan facility with the lenders party thereto (the  Syndicated Credit Agreement ) and (b) a   $1.0 billion   unsecured term loan facility with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (the  Sumitomo Credit Agreement  and, together with the Syndicated Credit Agreement, the  February 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreements ). Upon entry into the February 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreements, the commitments available under the Backstop Credit Agreement were reduced to zero and such agreement terminated in accordance with its terms. Each of the February 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreements and the commitments contemplated thereby terminated on June 28, 2017 upon the termination of the Merger Agreement.  
    
  February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement 
  On February 1, 2017, the Company entered into a   $1.0 billion   revolving credit facility (as amended, the  February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement ) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and, on August 1, 2017, the Company entered into an amendment agreement thereto. The terms and conditions of the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement were unchanged by the amendment other than the extension of the facility termination date to the earlier of (a) January 31, 2019 and  
  
   -   83   - 

     Table of Contents  

(b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate commitments provided by the lenders thereunder. As of August 31, 2017, there were no borrowings under the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement. 
    
  August 2017 Credit Agreements 
  On August 24, 2017, the Company entered into a   $1.0 billion   revolving credit agreement (the  August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement ) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and a   $1.0 billion   term loan credit agreement (the  2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement  and together with the August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement, the  August 2017 Credit Agreements ) with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation.  
    
  The August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement is an unsecured revolving credit facility with a facility termination date of the earlier of (a) January 31, 2019, subject to any extension thereof pursuant to the terms of the August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate commitments provided by the lenders thereunder. The 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement is an unsecured  multi-draw  term loan facility maturing on March 30, 2019. The aggregate commitments of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation under the 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement are initially equal to   $1.0 billion  , which shall be reduced on June 1, 2018 to the lesser of   $500 million   and the aggregate remaining undrawn commitments thereunder. Any remaining undrawn commitments thereunder and the ability of the Company to request loans under such commitments shall terminate on September 1, 2018. As of August 31, 2017, there were no borrowings under either of the August 2017 Credit Agreements. 
    
  Repayment of notes 
  On May 18, 2016, the Company repaid   $750 million   floating rate notes due 2016 on their maturity date and on August 28, 2017, the Company redeemed, at its option,   $750 million     1.750%   notes due 2017. The floating rate notes due 2016 and the   1.750%   notes due 2017 were issued in a public offering on November 18, 2014.  
    
  Repayment of term loan    
  On August 30, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance used available cash to repay in full all outstanding loans and obligations under a term loan credit agreement entered into by Walgreens Boots Alliance and Walgreens on November 10, 2014, which, as of the date of repayment, consisted of the remaining unamortized amount of    1.41 billion   (  $1.83 billion   at the August 31, 2017 spot rate of   $1.295   to  1) aggregate principal amount of outstanding loans together with accrued interest thereon through, but excluding, the payment date, and such other amounts required to be paid by Walgreens Boots Alliance thereunder and the 2014 Term Loan Agreement terminated in accordance with its terms.  
    
  Debt covenants 
  Each of the Company s credit facilities contain a covenant to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed   0.60  :  1.00  . The credit facilities contain various other customary covenants. In the case of the 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement, such covenants are only effective after the date of initial funding. 
    
  Other borrowings 
  The Company periodically borrows under its commercial paper program and may borrow under it in future periods. There were   no   commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of August 31, 2017 or 2016. The Company did not issue any commercial paper under its commercial paper program in fiscal 2017. The Company had average daily short-term borrowings of   $14 million   of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of   0.66%   in fiscal   2016  .   
    
  Interest 
  Interest paid, which is net of capitalized interest, was   $643 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   $580 million   in fiscal   2016   and   $472 million   in fiscal   2015  . Interest capitalized during fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was immaterial. 

9. Financial instruments 
  The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange risks. 
    
  The notional amounts, fair value and balance sheet presentation of derivative instruments outstanding as of   August 31, 2017   and   2016   were as follows (in millions): 

-   84   - 

     Table of Contents  

2017 
      
    Notional   1  
      
    Fair value 
      
    Location in Consolidated 
  Balance Sheets 
      Derivatives designated as hedges  : 

Interest rate swaps 
      
    $ 
    250 

$ 

Other non-current assets 
      Foreign currency forwards 
      
    24 

Other current assets 
      Derivatives not designated as hedges  : 

Foreign currency forwards 
      
    221 

Other current assets 
      Foreign currency forwards 
      
    2,816 

19 

Other current liabilities 

1   
    Amounts are presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, as applicable. 
                                      2016 
      
    Notional   1  
      
    Fair value 
      
    Location in Consolidated 
  Balance Sheets 
      Derivatives designated as hedges  : 

Interest rate swaps 
      
    $ 
    250 

$ 
    3 

Other non-current assets 
      Derivatives not designated as hedges  : 

Foreign currency forwards 
      
    1,177 

16 

Other current assets 
      Foreign currency forwards 
      
    41 

Other current liabilities 
      Basis swap 
      
    2 

1 

Other current liabilities 

1   
    Amounts are presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, as applicable. 
       
  The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate exposure associated with some of its fixed-rate borrowings and designates them as fair value hedges. The Company uses forward starting interest rates swaps to hedge its interest rate exposure of some of its anticipated debt issuance.  
    
  The Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts and other foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant committed and highly probable future transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company or its subsidiaries. The Company has significant non-US dollar denominated net investments and uses foreign currency denominated financial instruments, specifically foreign currency derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt, to hedge its foreign currency risk. 
    
  Fair value hedges 
  The Company holds interest rate swap converting   $250 million   of its   5.250%   fixed rate notes to a floating interest rate based on the six-month LIBOR in arrears plus a constant spread. All swap termination dates coincide with the notes maturity date, January 15, 2019. These swaps were designated as fair value hedges. 
    
  The gains and losses due to changes in fair value on the swaps and on the hedged notes attributable to interest rate risk did not have a material impact on the Company s Financial Statements. The changes in fair value of the Company s debt that was swapped from fixed to variable rate and designated as fair value hedges are included in long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (see note 8, borrowings). No material gain or losses were recorded for ineffectiveness during fiscal 2017, 2016, or 2015.                                                         
    
  Derivatives not designated as hedges 
  The Company enters into derivative transactions that are not designated as accounting hedges. These derivative instruments are economic hedges of interest rate and foreign currency risks. The gains and (losses) due to changes in fair value of these derivative instruments were recognized in earnings as follows (in millions): 

-   85   - 

     Table of Contents  

Warrants 
  On March 18, 2016, the Company exercised warrants to purchase   22,696,912   shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of   $51.50   per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of   $1.17 billion  . On August 25, 2016, the Company exercised additional warrants to purchase   22,696,912   shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of   $52.50   per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of   $1.19 billion  . See note 5, equity method investments for further information. 
    
  The Company reported its warrants at fair value. The gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrants recognized in earnings were as follows (in millions): 

The Company held no warrants to purchase AmerisourceBergen common stock on   August 31, 2017   and   2016  . 
    
  Derivatives credit risk 
  Counterparties to derivative financial instruments expose the Company to credit-related losses in the event of counterparty nonperformance, and the Company regularly monitors the credit worthiness of each counterparty. 
    
  Derivatives offsetting 
  The Company does not offset the fair value amounts of derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

10. Fair value measurements 
  The Company measures certain assets and liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value as the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In addition, it establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels: 
    
           Level 1 - 
    Quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets and liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. 
              Level 2 - 
    Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets. 
              Level 3 - 
    Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data available. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs. 
       
  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows (in millions): 

-   86   - 

     Table of Contents  

1   
    Money market funds are valued at the closing price reported by the fund sponsor. 
               2   
    Fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices as of the balance sheet dates.  
               3   
    The fair value of basis swaps and forward currency contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current available forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using observable market rates. 
               4   
    The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows based on the applicable observable yield curves. See note 9, financial instruments for additional information. 
       
  There were   no   transfers between levels in fiscal   2017   or   2016  . 
    
  The Company reports its debt instruments under the guidance of ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which requires disclosure of the fair value of the Company s debt in the footnotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless otherwise noted, the fair value for all notes was determined based upon quoted market prices and therefore categorized as Level 1. See note 8, borrowings for further information. The carrying values of accounts receivable and trade accounts payable approximated their respective fair values due to their short-term nature. 

11. Commitments and contingencies 
  The Company is involved in legal proceedings and is subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities, arising in the normal course of the Company s business, including the matters described below. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. From time to time, the Company is also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized. The results of legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. The Company believes that its defenses and assertions in pending legal proceedings have merit, and does not believe that any of these pending matters, after consideration of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, will have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position. However, substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. As a result, the Company could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise its expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or its cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. 
    
  On a quarterly basis, the Company assesses its liabilities and contingencies for outstanding legal proceedings and reserves are established on a case-by-case basis for those legal claims for which management concludes that it is probable that a loss will be incurred and that the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. Substantially all of these contingencies are subject to significant uncertainties and, therefore, determining the likelihood of a loss and/or the measurement of any loss can be complex. With respect to litigation and other legal proceedings where the Company has determined that a loss is reasonably possible, the Company is unable to estimate the amount or range of reasonably possible loss due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of and uncertainties regarding such litigation and legal proceedings. The Company s assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management, but that may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that might cause the Company to change those estimates and assumptions. Therefore, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements in a future fiscal period. Management s assessment of current litigation and other legal proceedings, including the corresponding accruals, could change because of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions or other proceedings pending against the Company which are not presently known. Adverse rulings or determinations by judges, juries, governmental authorities or other parties could also result in changes to management s assessment of current liabilities and contingencies. Accordingly, the ultimate costs of resolving these claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved. 
    
  On December 29, 2014, a putative shareholder filed a derivative action in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois against certain current and former directors and officers of Walgreen Co., and Walgreen Co. as a nominal defendant, arising out of certain public statements the Company made regarding its former fiscal 2016 goals. The action asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste and unjust enrichment. On April 10, 2015, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss. On May 18, 2015, the case was stayed in light of a securities class action that was filed on April 10, 2015. After a ruling issued on September 30, 2016 in the securities class action, which is described below, on November 3, 2016, the Court entered a stipulation and order extending the stay until the securities case is fully resolved. 
    
  On April 10, 2015, a putative shareholder filed a securities class action in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois against Walgreen Co. and certain former officers of Walgreen Co. The action asserts claims for violation of the federal  
  
   -   87   - 

     Table of Contents  

securities laws arising out of certain public statements the Company made regarding its former fiscal 2016 goals. On June 16, 2015, the Court entered an order appointing a lead plaintiff. Pursuant to the Court s order, lead plaintiff filed an amended complaint on August 17, 2015, and defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on October 16, 2015. Lead plaintiff filed a response to the motion to dismiss on December 22, 2015, and defendants filed a reply in support of the motion on February 5, 2016. On September 30, 2016, the Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part defendants  motion to dismiss. Defendants filed their answer to the amended complaint on November 4, 2016 and filed an amended answer on January 16, 2017. Plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification on April 21, 2017.  
    
  As of August 31, 2017, the Company was aware of   two   putative class action lawsuits filed by purported Rite Aid stockholders against Rite Aid and its board of directors, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc. for claims arising out of the transactions contemplated by the original Merger Agreement (prior to its amendment on January 29, 2017) (such transactions, the  Rite Aid Transactions ).   One   Rite Aid action was filed in the State of Pennsylvania in the Court of Common Pleas of Cumberland County (the  Pennsylvania action ), and   one   action was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania (the  federal action ). The Pennsylvania action primarily alleged that the Rite Aid board of directors breached its fiduciary duties in connection with the Rite Aid Transactions by, among other things, agreeing to an unfair and inadequate price, agreeing to deal protection devices that preclude other bidders from making successful competing offers for Rite Aid, and failing to disclose all allegedly material information concerning the proposed merger, and also alleged that Walgreens Boots Alliance and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc. aided and abetted these alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. The federal action alleged, among other things, that Rite Aid and its board of directors disseminated an allegedly false and misleading proxy statement in connection with the Rite Aid Transactions. The plaintiffs in the federal action also filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking to enjoin the Rite Aid shareholder vote relating to the Rite Aid Transactions. That motion was denied and plaintiffs agreed to stay the litigation until after the Rite Aid Transactions closed. On March 17, 2017, plaintiffs moved to lift the stay to allow plaintiffs to file an amended complaint. On August 4, 2017, that motion was granted for the limited purpose of allowing plaintiffs to file a motion seeking leave to amend their complaint in light of the termination of the Merger Agreement. Plaintiffs filed such a motion on September 22, 2017. The Company filed its response on October 6, 2017. Plaintiffs filed their reply, and the motion is fully briefed. The court has not set a hearing date or indicated when it will issue a ruling. The Company was also named as a defendant in eight putative class action lawsuits filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the  Delaware actions ). Those actions were consolidated, and plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking to enjoin the Rite Aid shareholder vote relating to the Rite Aid Transactions. That motion was denied and the plaintiffs in the Delaware actions agreed to settle this matter for an immaterial amount. The Delaware actions all have been dismissed. 

12. Income taxes 
  The components of Earnings Before Income Tax Provision were (in millions): 

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): 

-   88   - 

     Table of Contents  

The difference between the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective tax rate is as follows: 

1   
    Upon the amendment and immediate exercise of the call option to acquire the remaining   55%   ownership of Alliance Boots, the Company was required to compare the fair value of the amended option with the book value of the original option with a gain or loss recognized for the difference. The fair value of the amended option resulted in a financial statement loss of   $866 million  . The loss on the Alliance Boots call option was, in part, a capital loss and available to be carried forward and offset future capital gains through fiscal 2020. In 2015, the deferred tax asset related to the loss was recognized, resulting in the   4.1%   effective tax rate benefit reported in the table above. 
       
  The deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist of the following (in millions): 

-   89   - 

     Table of Contents  

At   August 31, 2017  , the Company has recorded deferred tax assets of   $555 million  , primarily reflecting the benefit of   $423 million   in U.S. federal,   $212 million   in state and   $1.2 billion   in non-U.S. ordinary and capital losses. In addition, these deferred tax assets include   $91 million   of income tax credits.  Of these deferred tax assets,   $253 million   will expire at various dates from 2018 through 2037. The residual deferred tax assets of   $302 million   have no expiry date. 
    
  The Company believes it is more likely than not that the benefit from certain deferred tax assets will not be realized. In recognition of this risk, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of   $408 million   against those deferred tax assets as of   August 31, 2017  . 
    
  Income taxes paid were   $1.1 billion  ,   $1.1 billion   and   $1.3 billion   for fiscal years   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, provides guidance regarding the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure in the financial statement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, including the decision whether to file in a particular jurisdiction. As of   August 31, 2017  , unrecognized tax benefits of   $250 million   were reported as long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets while   $202 million   were reported as current tax liabilities. Both of these amounts include interest and penalties, when applicable. 
    
  The following table provides a reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (in millions): 

-   90   - 

     Table of Contents  

At   August 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  ,   $286 million  ,   $237 million   and   $227 million  , respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits would favorably impact the effective tax rate if recognized. During the next   twelve   months, based on current knowledge, it is reasonably possible the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by up to   $140 million   due to anticipated tax audit settlements and the expirations of statutes of limitations associated with tax positions related to multiple tax jurisdictions. 
    
  The Company recognizes interest and penalties in the income tax provision in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings. At   August 31, 2017  , and   August 31, 2016  , the Company had accrued interest and penalties of   $43 million   and   $34 million  , respectively. For the   year ended August 31, 2017  , the amount reported in income tax expense related to interest and penalties was   $9 million  . 
                                                    
  The Company files a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return as well as income tax returns in various states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. It is generally no longer under audit examination for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any years prior to fiscal 2015. With few exceptions, it is no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before fiscal 2007. In foreign tax jurisdictions, the Company is generally no longer subject to examination by the tax authorities in Luxembourg prior to 2011, in Germany prior to 2011, in France prior to 2011 and in Turkey prior to 2011. With respect to the United Kingdom, a number of specific issues remain open to examination by the tax authorities back to 2000. 
                                                   
  The Company has received tax holidays from Swiss cantonal income taxes relative to certain of its Swiss operations. The income tax holidays are expected to extend through September 2022. The holidays had a beneficial impact of   $142 million   and   $116 million   during fiscal   2017   and   2016  , respectively. This benefit is primarily included as part of the foreign income taxed at non-U.S. rates line in the effective tax rate reconciliation table above. 
    
  At   August 31, 2017  , it is not practicable for the Company to determine the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability it has with respect to temporary differences related to investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign corporate joint ventures that are essentially permanent in duration. 

13. Stock compensation plans 
  The Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the  Omnibus Plan ) which became effective in fiscal 2013, provides for incentive compensation to the Company s non-employee directors, officers and employees, and consolidates several previously existing equity compensation plans into a single plan. 
    
  The Company grants stock options, performance shares and restricted units under the Omnibus Plan. Performance shares issued under the Omnibus Plan offer performance-based incentive awards and equity-based awards to key employees. The fair value of each performance share granted assumes that performance goals will be achieved at   100 percent  . If such goals are not met, no compensation expense is recognized and any recognized compensation expense is reversed. Restricted stock units are also equity-based awards with performance requirements that are granted to key employees. The performance shares and restricted stock unit awards are both subject to restrictions as to continuous employment except in the case of death, normal retirement or total and permanent disability. 
                                                    
  Total stock-based compensation expense for fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $91 million  ,   $115 million   and   $109 million  , respectively. The recognized tax benefit was   $78 million  ,   $21 million   and   $7 million   for fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at   August 31, 2017   was   $137 million  . This cost is expected to be recognized over   three years  . 

-   91   - 

     Table of Contents  

14. Retirement benefits 
  The Company sponsors several retirement plans, including defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans and a postretirement health plan. Pursuant to the Second Step Transaction, the Company assumed a number of retirement benefit plans in the United Kingdom and other countries. The Company valued the assumed pension assets and liabilities on the acquisition date and uses an August 31 annual measurement date for its pension and post-retirement plans. 
    
  On September 1, 2016, for U.K. and U.S. benefit plans using the yield curve approach, the Company changed the method used to calculate the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for pension and postretirement benefit plans and measures these costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the plans  projected cash flows. The Company believes this approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected cash flows and the corresponding spot yield curve rates. The change did not affect the measurement of the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations for those plans and was accounted for as a change in accounting estimate, which was applied prospectively. 
    
  Defined Benefit Pension Plans (non-U.S. plans) 
  The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Boots Pension Plan covering certain employees in the United Kingdom (the  Boots Plan ). The Boots Plan is a funded final salary defined benefit plan providing pensions and death benefits to members. The Boots Plan was closed to future accrual effective July 1, 2010 with pensions calculated based on salaries up until that date. The Boots Plan is governed by a trustee board, which is independent of the Company. The plan is subject to a full funding actuarial valuation on a triennial basis.  
    
  Defined benefit pension plan assets were invested in the following classes of securities as of   August 31  : 

The investment strategy of the principal defined benefit pension plan is to hold approximately   85%   of its assets in a diverse portfolio of high quality bonds with the remainder invested in equity and real estate assets backing longer term liabilities. Interest rate and inflation rate swaps are also employed to complement the role of fixed and index-linked bond holdings in liability risk management. 
    
  The following table presents defined benefit pension plan assets using the fair value hierarchy as of   August 31, 2017   (in millions). 

-   92   - 

     Table of Contents  

1   
    Equity securities, which mainly comprise investments in commingled funds, are valued based on quoted prices and are primarily exchange-traded. Securities for which official close or last trade pricing on an active exchange is available are classified as Level 1 investments. If closing prices are not available, securities are valued at the last quoted bid price and typically are categorized as Level 2 investments. 
               2   
    Debt securities: government bonds comprise fixed interest and index linked bonds issued by central governments, and are valued based on quotes received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities. Pricing services utilize pricing which considers readily available inputs such as the yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity, and type, as well as dealer-supplied prices. Government bonds are categorized as Level 2 investments. 
               3   
    Debt securities: corporate bonds comprise bonds issued by corporations and are valued using recently executed transactions, or quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active. If there have been no market transactions in a particular fixed income security, its fair value is calculated by pricing models that benchmark the security against other securities with actual market prices. Corporate bonds are categorized as Level 2 investments. 
               4   
    Real estate comprises investments in certain property funds which are valued based on the value of the underlying properties. These properties are valued using a number of standard industry techniques such as cost, discounted cash flows, independent appraisals and market based comparable data. Real estate investments are categorized as Level 3 investments. Change in Level 3 investments driven primarily by currency fluctuations. 
               5   
    Other investments mainly comprise cash and cash equivalents, derivatives and direct private placements. Cash is categorized as a Level 1 investment. Cash equivalents are valued using observable yield curves, discounting and interest rates and are categorized as Level 2 investments. Derivatives which are exchange-traded and for which market quotations are readily available are valued at the last reported sale price or official closing price as reported by an independent pricing service on the primary market, or exchange on which they are traded, and are categorized as Level 1 investments. Over-the-counter derivatives typically are valued by independent pricing services and are categorized as Level 2 investments.  Direct private placements are typically bonds valued by reference to comparable bonds and are categorized as Level 3 investments. 
       
  Components of net periodic pension costs for the defined benefit pension plans (in millions): 

-   93   - 

     Table of Contents  

Change in benefit obligations for the defined benefit pension plans (in millions): 

Change in plan assets for the defined benefit pension plans (in millions): 

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions): 

Pre-tax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss (in millions): 

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for all pension plans, including accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, at   August 31, 2017   were as follows (in millions): 

Estimated future benefit payments from defined benefit pension plans to participants are as follows (in millions): 

-   94   - 

     Table of Contents  

The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit pension plans were as follows: 

Based on current actuarial estimates, the Company plans to make contributions of   $54 million   to its defined benefit pension plans in fiscal   2018   and expects to make contributions beyond   2018  , which will vary based upon many factors, including the performance of the defined benefit pension plan assets. 
    
  Defined contribution plans 
  The principal retirement plan for U.S. employees is the Walgreen Profit-Sharing Retirement Trust, to which both the Company and participating employees contribute. The Company s contribution is in the form of a guaranteed match which is approved annually by the Walgreen Co. Board of Directors and reviewed by the Compensation Committee and Finance Committee of the Walgreens Boots Alliance Board of Directors. The profit-sharing provision was an expense of   $221 million  ,   $226 million   and   $158 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The Company s contributions were   $220 million  ,   $225 million   and   $249 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  The Company also has certain contract based defined contribution arrangements. The principal one is the Alliance Healthcare   Boots Retirement Savings Plan, which is United Kingdom based and to which both the Company and participating employees contribute. The cost related to these arrangements recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings was   $112 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   $130 million   in fiscal   2016   and   $93 million   from the date of the Second Step Transaction through August 31, 2015. 
                                                                  
  Postretirement healthcare plan 
  The Company provides certain health insurance benefits to retired U.S. employees who meet eligibility requirements, including age, years of service and date of hire. The costs of these benefits are accrued over the service life of the employee. An amendment to this plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 resulted in   $109 million   curtailment gain. The Company s postretirement health benefit plan obligation was   $361 million   and   $466 million   in fiscal   2017   and   2016   respectively and is not funded. The expected benefit to be paid net of the estimated federal subsidy during fiscal year   2018   is   $10 million  . 

15. Capital stock 
  In connection with the Company s capital policy, the Board of Directors has authorized share repurchase programs. In April 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a stock repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to   $1.0 billion   of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program s expiration on December 31, 2017. In May 2017, the Company completed this   $1.0 billion   stock repurchase program. In June 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a new stock repurchase program, which authorizes the repurchase of up to   $5.0 billion   of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program s expiration on August 31, 2018. The Company purchased   59.0 million   and   1.3 million   shares under stock repurchase programs in fiscal   2017   and   2016   at a cost of   $4.8 billion   and   $110 million  , respectively. 

-   95   - 

     Table of Contents  

The Company determines the timing and amount of repurchases based on its assessment of various factors including prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, liquidity, the economic environment and other factors. The timing and amount of these purchases may change at any time and from time to time. The Company has repurchased, and may from time to time in the future repurchase, shares on the open market through Rule 10b5-1 plans, which enable a company to repurchase shares at times when it otherwise might be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. 
    
  In addition, the Company continued to repurchase shares to support the needs of the employee stock plans. Shares totaling   $457 million   were purchased to support the needs of the employee stock plans during fiscal   2017   as compared to   $1.0 billion   and   $500 million   in fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively. At   August 31, 2017  ,   39 million   shares of common stock were reserved for future issuances under the Company s various employee benefit plans. 

16. Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
  The following is a summary of net changes in accumulated other comprehensive income by component and net of tax for fiscal   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   (in millions): 

1   
    Includes amendment to U.S. postretirement healthcare plan resulting in a curtailment gain. See note 14, retirement benefits. 

17. Segment reporting 
  The Company has aligned its operations into   three   reportable segments: Retail Pharmacy USA, Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale. The operating segments have been identified based on the financial data utilized by the Company s Chief Executive Officer (the chief operating decision maker) to assess segment performance and allocate resources among the Company s operating segments, which have been aggregated as described below. The chief operating decision maker uses adjusted operating income to assess segment profitability. The chief operating decision maker does not use total assets by segment to make decisions regarding resources, therefore the total asset disclosure by segment has not been included. 

-   96   - 

     Table of Contents  

The Retail Pharmacy USA segment consists of the legacy Walgreens business, which includes the operation of retail drugstores and convenient care clinics and the provision of specialty pharmacy services. Sales for the segment are principally derived from the sale of prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, including non-prescription drugs, beauty products, photo finishing, seasonal merchandise, greeting cards and convenience foods. 
                
    The Retail Pharmacy International segment consists primarily of the legacy Alliance Boots pharmacy-led health and beauty stores and optical practices. Stores are located in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Chile, Thailand, Norway, the Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands and Lithuania. Sales for the segment are principally derived from the sale of prescription drugs and retail health, beauty, toiletries and other consumer products. 
                
    The Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment consists of the legacy Alliance Boots pharmaceutical wholesaling and distribution businesses and an equity method investment in AmerisourceBergen reported on a two-month lag. Wholesale operations are located in France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Turkey, Spain, The Netherlands, Egypt, Norway, Romania, Czech Republic and Lithuania. Sales for the segment are principally derived from wholesaling and distribution of a comprehensive offering of brand-name pharmaceuticals (including specialty pharmaceutical products) and generic pharmaceuticals, health and beauty products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to pharmacies and other healthcare providers. 
     The results of operations for each reportable segment include procurement benefits, including WBAD operations and an allocation of corporate-related overhead costs. The  Eliminations  column contains items not allocable to the reportable segments, as the information is not utilized by the chief operating decision maker to assess segment performance and allocate resources. 
    
  The segment information reflects the operating results of the Company s business segments. The Company began recording revenue and expense transactions using the new segments effective January 1, 2015. Beginning January 1, 2015, procurement benefits including WBAD operations have been allocated to the Retail Pharmacy USA, Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments on a source of procurement benefit basis. Under this method, the procurement benefits are allocated to the segment whose purchase gave rise to the benefit. A procurement benefit arising on the purchase of an item for use in an entity in the Retail Pharmacy USA segment is recognized in the Retail Pharmacy USA segment and similarly for the Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments. Procurement service income related to third parties is recognized in the Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. 
    
  The Company s Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments were acquired as part of the Second Step Transaction in which the Company acquired the   55%   of Alliance Boots that it did not already own on December 31, 2014. The Company has determined that it is impracticable to restate segment information for periods prior the completion of the Second Step Transaction, as well as to provide disclosures for such periods under both the old basis and new basis of reporting for certain items. Specifically, WBAD operations prior to December 31, 2014 were recorded in the Retail Pharmacy USA segment and have not been restated, as the Company believes it is impracticable to separate the information to the individual reportable segments. Equity earnings from Alliance Boots prior to the completion of the Second Step Transaction have been recorded within the Retail Pharmacy USA segment. The equity earnings of the   45%   interest in Alliance Boots have not been separated into the Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments for the prior period, as the Company believes it is impracticable. Accordingly, only eight months of results (January to August 2015) have been reported for these segments for fiscal 2015.  
  
   -   97   - 

     Table of Contents  

The following table reflects results of operations of the Company s reportable segments (in millions): 

-   98   - 

     Table of Contents  

The following table reconciles adjusted operating income to operating income (in millions): 

No   single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company s consolidated sales for any of the periods presented.   Two   payers accounted for approximately   25%   of the Retail Pharmacy USA division s sales in fiscal   2017   and approximately   22%   in fiscal   2016  .   One   customer in the Retail Pharmacy International division accounted for approximately   18%   of the division s sales in fiscal   2017   and approximately   18%   in fiscal   2016  .  
    
  Geographic data for sales is as follows (in millions): 
  
   -   99   - 

     Table of Contents  

Geographic data for long-lived assets, defined as property, plant and equipment, is as follows (in millions): 

18. Related parties 
  The Company has a long-term pharmaceutical distribution agreement with AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which the Company sources branded and generic pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen principally for its U.S. operations. 
    
  Related party transactions (in millions): 

Additionally, AmerisourceBergen receives sourcing services for generic pharmaceutical products. 

19. Supplementary financial information 
  On March 31, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Prime closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, as part of a strategic alliance. AllianceRx Walgreens Prime is consolidated by Walgreens Boots Alliance and reported within the Retail Pharmacy USA division in its financial statements. The Company accounted for this acquisition of Prime s specialty pharmacy and mail services business as a business combination involving non-cash purchase consideration of   $720 million   consisting of the issuance of an equity interest in AllianceRx Walgreens Prime. There were no significant non-cash transactions in fiscal 2016. 
    
  Included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets captions are the following assets and liabilities (in millions): 

-   100   - 

     Table of Contents  

Summary of Quarterly Results (Unaudited) 
  (in millions, except per share amounts) 

-   101   - 

Table of Contents  

Management s Report on Internal Control 
    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). As permitted by the SEC, our assessment of internal controls over financial reporting excludes internal control over financial reporting of equity method investees. However, our assessment of internal control over financial reporting with respect to equity method investees did include controls over the recording of amounts related to our investment that are recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including controls over the selection of accounting methods for our investments, the recognition of equity method earnings and losses and the determination, valuation and recording of our investment account balances. 
    
  Based on our evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   August 31, 2017  . Deloitte   Touche LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, has audited our internal control over financial reporting, as stated in its report which is included herein. 
    
                         /s/ 
    Stefano Pessina 
      
    /s/ 
    George R. Fairweather 

Stefano Pessina 

George R. Fairweather 

Executive Vice Chairman and Chief 
  Executive Officer 

Executive Vice President and Global Chief 
  Financial Officer 

-   102   - 

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 
    
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended   August 31, 2017  . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, based on our audits, such Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and subsidiaries as of   August 31, 2017   and   2016  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   August 31, 2017  , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   August 31, 2017  , based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated   October 25, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 25, 2017    

-   103   - 

     Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders  
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 
    
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of   August 31, 2017   based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   August 31, 2017  , based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended   August 31, 2017   of the Company and our report dated October 25, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 25, 2017 

-   104   - 

Table of Contents  

Item 9.  Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 
  None. 

Item 9A.  Controls and procedures 
  Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures 
  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K. The controls evaluation was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ). Based upon the controls evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
    
  Report on internal control over financial reporting 
  Management s report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of Deloitte   Touche LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K and are incorporated in this Item 9A by reference. 
    
  Changes in internal control over financial reporting 
  In connection with the evaluation pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(d) of the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) by the Company s management, including its CEO and CFO, no changes during the quarter ended   August 31, 2017   were identified that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  Inherent limitations on effectiveness of controls 
  Our management, including the CEO and CFO, do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system s objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. 

Item 9B.  Other information 
  Store Optimization Program 
  On October 24, 2017, the Company s Board of Directors approved a plan to implement a program (the  Store Optimization Program ) as part of an initiative to optimize store locations within the Company s Retail Pharmacy USA division upon completion of the acquisition of certain stores and related assets from Rite Aid. The Store Optimization Program includes plans to close approximately 600 stores across the U.S. and is expected to result in cost savings of $300 million per year to be delivered by the end of fiscal 2020. The actions under the Store Optimization Program are expected to take place over an 18 month period beginning in spring 2018. 
    
  The Company currently estimates that it will recognize cumulative pre-tax charges to its GAAP financial results of approximately $450 million, including costs associated with lease obligations and other real estate costs, employee severance and other exit costs. The Company expects to incur pre-tax charges of approximately $270 million for lease obligations and other real estate costs and approximately $180 million for employee severance and other exit costs. The Company estimates that substantially all of these cumulative pre-tax charges will result in future cash expenditures.  
    
  As the Store Optimization Program is implemented, charges will be recognized as the costs are incurred over time in accordance with GAAP. The Company intends to treat charges related to the Store Optimization Program as special items impacting comparability of results in its quarterly earnings disclosures.  

-   105   - 

     Table of Contents  

The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See  cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements  above. Because this report is being filed within four business days from the date of the reportable event, we have made the foregoing disclosure in this report instead of in a Form 8-K under Item 2.05 (Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities).   

PART III 

Item 10.  Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 
  The information required by Item 10, with the exception of the information relating to the executive officers of the Company, which is presented in part I above under the heading  Executive Officers of the Registrant,  is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of the Company s Proxy Statement relating to its next Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the  Proxy Statement ):  Proposal     1 Election of Directors; Governance; and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance. 
    
  The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct and Business Ethics applicable to all employees, officers and directors that incorporates policies and guidelines designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote honest and ethical conduct and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Company has also adopted a Code of Ethics for CEO and Financial Executives. This Code applies to and has been signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller. The Company intends to promptly disclose on its website in accordance with applicable rules required disclosure of changes to or waivers, if any, of the Code of Ethics for CEO and Financial Executives or the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics for directors and executive officers. 
    
  Charters of all committees of the Company s Board of Directors, as well as the Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics for CEO and Financial Executives and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, are available on the Company s website at investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com or, upon written request and free of charge, in printed hardcopy form. Written requests should be sent to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., Attention: Investor Relations, Mail Stop #1833, 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. 

Item 11.  Executive compensation 
  The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of the Company s Proxy Statement: Director Compensation; Executive Compensation; and Governance. 
                                               
  The material incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption  Compensation Committee Report  in the Proxy Statement shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, in this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a result of this furnishing, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference. 

Item 12.  Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 
  The information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of the Company s Proxy Statement: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management; and Equity Compensation Plan Information. 

Item 13.  Certain relationships and related transactions and director independence 
  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of the Company s Proxy Statement: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions; and Governance. 

Item 14.  Principal accounting fees and services 
  The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the following section of the Company s Proxy Statement: Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees and Services. 

PART IV 

Item 15.  Exhibits and financial statement schedules 
           (a) 
    Documents filed as part of this report: 
              (1) 
    Financial statements.   The following financial statements, supplementary data, and reports of independent public accountants appear in part II, item 8 of this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. 
     Consolidated Balance Sheets at   August 31, 2017   and   2016    
  Consolidated Statements of Equity, Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the years ended   August 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015    
  
   -   106   - 

     Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Management s Report on Internal Control 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  . 
           (2) 
    Financial statement schedules and supplementary information 
     Schedules I, II, III, IV and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required or because the required information is included in the Financial Statements referenced in (1) above or the notes thereto. 
    
           (3) 
    Exhibits.   Exhibits 10.1 through 10.64 constitute management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this Form 10-K. 
       
  The agreements included as exhibits to this report are included to provide information regarding their terms and not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements may contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement that were made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement, and: 

should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; 
                
    may have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; 
                
    may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and 
                
    were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. 
       
  Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. 
    
           (b) 
    Exhibits 
                        Exhibit 
  No. 
    Description 
      
    SEC Document Reference 
       2.1   * 
    Purchase and Option Agreement by and among Walgreen Co., Alliance Boots GmbH and AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited dated June 18, 2012 and related annexes. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Annex B-1 to the proxy statement/prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-198768) filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on November 24, 2014. 
       2.2   * 
    Amendment No. 1, dated August 5, 2014, to the Purchase and Option Agreement and Walgreen Co. Shareholders Agreement, by and among Walgreen Co., Alliance Boots GmbH, AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, Walgreen Scotland Investments LP, KKR Sprint (European II) Limited, KKR Sprint (2006) Limited and KKR Sprint (KPE) Limited, Alliance Sant  Participations S.A., Stefano Pessina and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co. L.P. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Annex B-2 to the proxy statement/prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-198768) filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on November 24, 2014. 
       2.3  
    Reorganization Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 17, 2014, by and among Walgreen Co., Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and Ontario Merger Sub, Inc. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the proxy statement/prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-198768) filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on November 24, 2014. 
       2.4  
    Amendment No. 1, dated December 23, 2014, to the Reorganization Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 17, 2014, by and among Walgreen Co., Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and Ontario Merger Sub, Inc. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-36759) filed with the SEC on December 24, 2014. 

-   107   - 

     Table of Contents  

-   108   - 

     Table of Contents  

-   109   - 

     Table of Contents  

-   110   - 

     Table of Contents  

-   111   - 

     Table of Contents  

-   112   - 

     Table of Contents  

10.59  
    Assignment Letter dated September 27, 2013 between Alexander Gourlay and Alliance Boots Management Services Ltd. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.53 to Walgreen Co. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2013 (File No. 1-00604). 
       10.60  
    Extension, dated January 27, 2016, to Assignment Letter between Alexander Gourlay and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited (formerly Alliance Boots Management Services Ltd.). 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-36759) filed with the SEC on February 1, 2016. 
       10.61  
    Extension, dated as of March 27, 2017, to Assignment Letter between Alexander Gourlay and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited (formerly Alliance Boots Management Services Ltd.). 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2017 (File No. 1-36759) filed with the SEC on April 5, 2017. 
       10.62  
    Extension, dated as of July 13, 2017, to Assignment Letter between Alexander Gourlay and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited (formerly Alliance Boots Management Services Ltd.). 
      
    Filed herewith. 
       10.63  
    Assignment Letter between Ken Murphy and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited. 
      
    Filed herewith. 
       10.64  
    Offer letter agreement between Kimberly R. Scardino and Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-36759) filed with the SEC on August 4, 2015. 
       10.65  
    Shareholders  Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2012, by and among Alliance Boots GmbH, AB Acquisition Holdings Limited and Walgreen Co. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Walgreen Co. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-00604) filed with the SEC on August 6, 2012. 
       10.66  
    Framework Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2013, by and among Walgreen Co., Alliance Boots GmbH and AmerisourceBergen Corporation. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Walgreen Co. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-00604) filed with the SEC on March 20, 2013. 
       10.67  
    Shareholders Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2013, by and among Walgreen Co., Alliance Boots GmbH and AmerisourceBergen Corporation. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Walgreen Co. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-00604) filed with the SEC on March 20, 2013. 
       10.68  
    Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2014, among Walgreen Co., Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., the lenders from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Walgreen Co. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-00604) filed with the SEC on November 12, 2014. 
       10.69  
    Revolving Credit Agreement, dated February 1, 2017, by and between Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as administrative agent. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36759) filed with the SEC on February 2, 2017. 
       10.70  
    Amendment, dated as of August 1, 2017, to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated February 1, 2017, by and between Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as administrative agent. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36759) filed with the SEC on August 2, 2017. 
       10.71  
    Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 24, 2017, by and among Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., the lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the joint lead arrangers, joint book managers and co-syndication agents named therein. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36759) filed with the SEC on August 30, 2017. 
       10.72  
    Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated August 24, 2017, among Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as lender, sole lead arranger and administrative agent. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36759) filed with the SEC on August 30, 2017. 
       10.73  
    Termination Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2017, by and among Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., Rite Aid Corporation and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-36759) filed with the SEC on July 3, 2017. 
       12  
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
      
    Filed herewith. 
       21  
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 
      
    Filed herewith. 
       23.1  
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 
      
    Filed herewith. 

-   113   - 

     Table of Contents  

31.1  
    Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      
    Filed herewith. 
       31.2  
    Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      
    Filed herewith. 
       32.1  
    Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 
      
    Furnished herewith.   
    
       32.2  
    Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 
      
    Furnished herewith. 
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document 
      
    Filed herewith. 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 
      
    Filed herewith. 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 
      
    Filed herewith. 
      101.DEF 
    
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 
      
    Filed herewith. 
      101.LAB 
    
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 
      
    Filed herewith. 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 
      
    Filed herewith. 

* 
    Schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Copies of any omitted schedule or exhibit will be furnished supplementally to the SEC upon request. 
       
           ** 
    Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries may be omitted from Exhibit 4 in accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. Copies of any such agreements will be furnished supplementally to the SEC upon request. 

-   114   - 

Table of Contents  

Item 16.  Form 10-K summary 
  None. 

-   115   - 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 

October 25, 2017 
    By: 
    /s/  George R. Fairweather 

George R. Fairweather 

Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
                       Name 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

/s/  Stefano Pessina 
      
    Executive Vice Chairman and Chief 
  Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) and Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Stefano Pessina 

/s/  George R. Fairweather 
      
    Executive Vice President and Global 
  Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      George R. Fairweather 

/s/  Kimberly R. Scardino 
      
    Senior Vice President, Global Controller 
  and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Kimberly R. Scardino 

/s/  James A. Skinner 
      
    Executive Chairman 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      James A. Skinner 

/s/  Jos  E. Almeida 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Jos  E. Almeida 

/s/  Janice M. Babiak 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Janice M. Babiak 

/s/  David J. Brailer 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      David J. Brailer 

/s/  William C. Foote 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      William C. Foote 

/s/  Ginger L. Graham 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Ginger L. Graham 

/s/  John A. Lederer 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      John A. Lederer 

/s/  Dominic P. Murphy 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Dominic P. Murphy 

/s/  Leonard D. Schaeffer 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Leonard D. Schaeffer 

/s/  Nancy M. Schlichting 
      
    Director 
      
    October 25, 2017 
      Nancy M. Schlichting 

-   116   - 

     Table of Contents  

INDEX 
    
                 Exhibit 
  No. 
    Description 

10.5  
    Form of Performance Share Award agreement (effective October 2017). 

10.7  
    Form of Stock Option Award agreement (effective October 2017). 

10.24  
    Form of Stock Option Award agreement under UK Sub-plan (effective October 2017). 

10.62  
    Extension, dated as of July 13, 2017 to Assignment Letter between Alexander Gourlay and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited (formerly Alliance Boots Management Services Ltd.). 

10.63  
    Assignment Letter between Ken Murphy and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited. 

12  
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

21  
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 

23.1  
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

31.1  
    Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

31.2  
    Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32.1  
    Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 

32.2  
    Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 

101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document 

101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 

101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 

101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 

101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 

101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 

-   117   - 

<EX-10.5>
 2
 exhibit105.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.5

Exhibit 

(OGPERF18) 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC.  
    
  2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN 
    
  PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 

These materials, which may include descriptions of company stock plans, prospectuses and other information and documents, and the information they contain, are provided by your company, not by Fidelity, and are not an offer or solicitation by Fidelity for the purchase of any securities or financial instruments.  These materials were prepared by your company, which is solely responsible for their contents and for compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.  Fidelity is not connected with any offering or acting as an underwriter in connection with any offering of your company's securities or financial instruments.  Fidelity does not review, approve or endorse the contents of these materials and is not responsible for their content. 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC.  
  2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Participant Name:   
  Participant ID:   
  Grant Date:                    (the "Grant Date") 
  Performance Period:     Fiscal Years    2018 - 2020   (the "Performance Period") 
  Shares Granted:   
  Acceptance Date:   
  Electronic Signature:   
  This document (referred to below as this "Agreement") spells out the terms and conditions of the Performance Share Award (the "Award") granted to you by Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan") on and as of the Grant Date designated above.  Except as otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the respective meanings set forth in the Plan.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Employer" means the entity (the Company or the Affiliate) that employs you on the applicable date.  The Plan as it may be amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. 
  You and the Company agree as follows:  
  1.  Grant of Performance Shares  .  Pursuant to the approval and direction of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"), the Company hereby grants you the target number of Performance Shares specified above (the "Performance Shares"), subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.  This "target" number of shares is computed by dividing the target award dollar amount for your position by the average closing stock price of the Company's common stock, par value US$.01 per share ("Stock") for the last 30 trading days of the fiscal year preceding the Grant Date.   
  2.        Performance Measure  . The number of Performance Shares earned at the end of the three-year Performance Period will vary depending on the degree to which cumulative adjusted earnings per share performance goals for the Performance Period, as established by the Committee, are met.   
  3.        Determination of Performance Shares Earned  .  At the target levels, 100% of the Performance Shares will be earned.  At the threshold levels, 50% of the Performance Shares will be earned.  Below the threshold levels of performance, no Performance Shares are earned.  At the maximum levels or more, 150% of the Performance Shares will be earned.  Performance between minimum and target, and between target and maximum, will earn Performance Shares on a pro-rated basis between 50% and 100%, and 100% and 150%, respectively. 
  The amount earned will be calculated according to the following: 

Percent of 
        
    Performance 
    = 
    Target 
    X 
    Target 
        
    Shares Awarded 
      
    Performance Shares 
      
    Performance Shares Earned 

4.        Disability or Death  .  If during the Performance Period you have a Termination of Service by reason of Disability or death, then the number of Performance Shares earned (based on performance as of the end of the Performance Period) shall become vested at the end of the Performance Period.  Any Performance Shares becoming vested by reason of your Termination of Service by reason of Disability or death shall be paid at the same time Performance Shares are paid to other Participants.  
  5.        Retirement  .  If within 12 months of the end of the Performance Period you have a Termination of Service by reason of Retirement, then the number of Performance Shares earned (based on performance as of the end of the Performance Period) shall become vested at the end of the Performance Period.  Any Performance Shares becoming vested by reason of your Retirement shall be paid at the same time Performance Shares are paid to other Participants. 
  6.        Termination of Service Following a Change in Control  .  If during the Performance Period there is a Change in Control of the Company and within the one-year period thereafter you have a Termination of Service initiated by your Employer other than for Cause (as defined in Section 7), then your earned Award shall equal your target number of Performance Shares, prorated to reflect the portion of the Performance Period during which you remained employed by the Company.  Such prorated portion shall equal your target number of Performance Shares, multiplied by a fraction equal to the number of full months of the Performance Period completed as of your Termination of Service, divided by the number of months in the Performance Period.  This prorated award will be settled in cash (subject to required tax withholdings) in accordance with Section 9.01(b) of the Plan within 45 days after your Termination of Service.  For purposes of this Section 6, a Termination of Service initiated by your Employer shall include a Termination of Employment for Good Reason under - and pursuant to the terms and conditions of   the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan, but only to the extent applicable to you as an eligible participant in such Plan. 
  7.        Other Termination of Service  . If during the Performance Period you have a voluntary or involuntary Termination of Service for any reason other than as set forth in Section 4, 5 or 6 above, as determined by the Committee, then all of your Performance Shares shall be forfeited.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means any one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion: 
  (a)    your commission of a felony or any crime of moral turpitude;  
  (b)    your dishonesty or material violation of standards of integrity in the course of fulfilling your employment duties to the Company or any Affiliate;  
  (c)    your material violation of a material written policy of the Company or any Affiliate violation of which is grounds for immediate termination;  
  (d)    your willful and deliberate failure to perform your employment duties to the Company or any Affiliate in any material respect, after reasonable notice of such failure and an opportunity to correct it; or  
  (e)    your failure to comply in any material respect with the United States ("U.S.") Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act, or any rules or regulations thereunder. 
  8.        Settlement of Earned Performance Shares  . At the end of the Performance Period actual performance for the entire Performance Period shall be reviewed, and the amount of the earned Award shall be determined based on this performance and communicated to you.  Subject to the requirements of Section 12 below, the Company shall transfer to you one (1) share of Stock for each Performance Share earned at that time, net of any applicable tax withholding requirements in accordance with Section 9 below. The Performance Shares payable under this Agreement are intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A under the exemption for short-term deferrals.  Accordingly, the Performance Shares will be settled in shares of Stock no later than the 15   th    day of the third month following the end of the fiscal year of the Company (or if later, the calendar year) in which the Performance Shares are earned.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are resident or employed outside of the U.S., the Company, in its sole discretion, may provide for the settlement of the Performance Shares in the form of: 
  (a)     a cash payment (in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock that corresponds with the number of earned Performance Shares) to the extent that settlement in shares of Stock (i) is prohibited under local law, (ii) would require you, the Company or an Affiliate to obtain the approval of any governmental or regulatory body in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different), (iii) would result in adverse tax consequences for you, the Company or an Affiliate or (iv) is administratively burdensome; or  
  (b)     shares of Stock, but require you to sell such shares of Stock immediately or within a specified period following your Termination of Service (in which case, you hereby agree that the Company shall have the authority to issue sale instructions in relation to such shares of Stock on your behalf). 
  9.        Responsibility for Taxes; Tax Withholding  .   
  (a)    You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or your Employer, the ultimate liability for all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ("Tax-Related Items"), is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or your Employer, if any.  You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or settlement of the Award, the subsequent sale of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to such settlement and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Award to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or your Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, you authorize the Company, your Employer or its agent to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by withholding from the shares of Stock to be delivered upon settlement of the Award that number of shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required by law to be withheld. For purposes of the foregoing, no fractional shares of Stock will be withheld or issued pursuant to the grant of the Performance Shares and the issuance of shares of Stock hereunder. 
  The Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable statutory minimum withholding rates (as determined by the Company in good faith and in its sole discretion) or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the share equivalent.  As the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding from the shares of Stock to be delivered upon settlement of the Award, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Stock subject to the earned Award, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. 
    
  You agree to pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares of Stock (or cash payment) or the proceeds from the sale of shares of Stock if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
    
  10.        Nontransferability  .  During the Performance Period and thereafter until shares of Stock are transferred to you in settlement thereof, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate the Performance Shares, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law, other than by beneficiary designation effective upon your death, or by will or by the laws of intestacy.  
  11.        Rights as Shareholder  .  You shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Performance Shares until such time as a certificate of stock for the shares of Stock issued in settlement of the Performance Shares has been issued to you or such shares of Stock have been recorded in your name in book entry form.  Except as provided in Section 17 below, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or distributions or other rights with respect to such shares of Stock for which the record date is prior to the date on which you become the holder of record thereof.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if a law or any regulation of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or of any other body having jurisdiction shall require the Company or you to take any action before shares of Stock can be delivered to you hereunder, then the date of delivery of such shares may be delayed accordingly. 
  12.        Securities Laws  . If a Registration Statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is not in effect with respect to the shares of Stock to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement, you hereby represent that you are acquiring the shares of Stock for investment and with no present intention of selling or transferring them and that you will not sell or otherwise transfer the shares of Stock except in compliance with all applicable securities laws and requirements of any stock exchange on which the shares of Stock may then be listed. 
  13.        Not a Public Offering  .  If you are resident outside the U.S., the grant of the Performance Shares is not intended to be a public offering of securities in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different).  The Company has not submitted any registration statement, prospectus or other filings with the local securities authorities (unless otherwise required under local law), and the grant of the Performance Shares is not subject to the supervision of the local securities authorities. 
  14.        Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws  .  Your country of residence may have insider trading and/or market abuse laws that may affect your ability to acquire or sell shares of Stock under the Plan during such times you are considered to have "inside information" (as defined by the laws in your country).  These laws may be the same or different from any Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be informed of and compliant with such regulations, and you are advised to speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
  15.        Repatriation; Compliance with Law  .  If you are resident or employed outside the U.S., as a condition of the Award, you agree to repatriate all payments attributable to the shares of Stock and/or cash acquired under the Plan in accordance with applicable foreign exchange rules and regulations in your country of residence (and country of employment, if different).  In addition, you agree to take any and all actions, and consent to any and all actions taken by the Company and its Affiliates, as may be required to allow the Company and its Affiliates to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations in your country of residence (and country of employment, if different).  Finally, you agree to take any and all actions as may be required to comply with your personal obligations under local laws, rules and/or regulations in your country of residence and country of employment, if different). 
  16.        No Advice Regarding Grant  .  No employee of the Company is permitted to advise you regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the shares of Stock underlying the Performance Shares.  You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors before taking any action related to the Plan. 
  17.        Change in Stock  .  In the event of any change in the Stock, by reason of any stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, split-up, merger, consolidation, exchange of shares, or of any similar change affecting Stock, the number of the Performance Shares subject to this Award Agreement shall be equitably adjusted by the Committee.  
  18.        Nature of the Award  .  In accepting the Award, you acknowledge, understand and agree that: 
  (a)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and limited in duration, and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company, in its sole discretion, at any time; 
  (b)    the grant of the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Performance Shares, or benefits in lieu of Performance Shares, even if Performance Shares have been granted in the past; 
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future Awards or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company, including, but not limited to, the form and timing of the Award, the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, and the earning provisions applicable to the Award; 
  (d)     the Award and your participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or service contract with the Company or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, your Employer or an Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate your employment or service relationship; 
  (e)    you are voluntarily participating in the Plan; 
  (f)    the Award and the shares of Stock subject to the Award are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
  (g)    the Award, the shares of Stock subject to the Award and the value of same, is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment (and employment contract, if any) and is not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, without limitation, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments; 
  (h)    the future value of the shares of Stock underlying the Award is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty; 
  (i)    unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, a Termination of Service shall be effective from the date on which active employment or service ends and shall not be extended by any statutory or common law notice of termination period; 
  (j)    no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Award resulting from a Termination of Service (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the Award to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, your Employer or any Affiliate, waive your ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and release the Company, the Employer and all Affiliates from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
  (k)    unless otherwise provided herein, in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the Award and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Award or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of Stock of the Company; and 
  (l)    neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the U.S. dollar that may affect the value of the Award or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Award or the subsequent sale of any shares of Stock acquired upon settlement of the Award.  
  19.        Committee Authority; Recoupment  .  It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, including the enforcement of any recoupment policy, all of which shall be binding upon you and any claimant.  Any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Plan shall be resolved in favor of the Plan.  
  20.        Consent to Collection/Processing/Transfer of Personal Data  .  Pursuant to applicable personal data protection laws, the Company hereby notifies you of the following in relation to your personal data and the collection, processing and transfer of such data in relation to the Company's grant of the Performance Shares and your participation in the Plan.  The collection, processing and transfer of personal data is necessary for the Company's administration of the Plan and your participation in the Plan, and your denial and/or objection to the collection, processing and transfer of personal data may affect your participation in the Plan.  As such, you voluntarily acknowledge and consent (where required under applicable law) to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described herein: 
  (a)    The Company and your Employer hold certain personal information about you, including (but not limited to) your name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social security, passport or other employee identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all entitlements to shares of Stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data").  Data may be provided by you or collected, where lawful, from the Company, its Affiliates and/or third parties, and the Company and your Employer will process Data for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  Data processing will take place through electronic and non-electronic means according to logics and procedures strictly correlated to the purposes for which Data are collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different).  Data processing operations will be performed minimizing the use of personal and identification data when such operations are unnecessary for the processing purposes sought.  Data will be accessible within the organization only by those persons requiring access for purposes of the implementation, administration and operation of the Plan and for the participation in the Plan. 
  (b)    The Company and your Employer will transfer Data internally as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and the Company and/or your Employer may further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  These recipients may be located in the European Economic Area, or elsewhere throughout the world, such as the United States.  You hereby authorize (where required under applicable law) the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Data, in electronic or other form, as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of the shares of Stock on your behalf, to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. 
  (c)    You may, at any time, exercise your rights provided under applicable personal data protection laws, which may include the right to (i) obtain confirmation as to the existence of Data, (ii) verify the content, origin and accuracy of Data, (iii) request the integration, update, amendment, deletion or blockage (for breach of applicable laws) of Data, (iv) oppose, for legal reasons, the collection, processing or transfer of Data which is not necessary or required for the implementation, administration and/or operation of the Plan and your participation in the Plan, and (v) withdraw your consent to the collection, processing or transfer of Data as provided hereunder (in which case, your Performance Shares will become null and void).  You may seek to exercise these rights by contacting your Human Resources manager or the Company's Human Resources Department, who may direct the matter to the applicable Company privacy official.   
  21.        Addendum to Agreement  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Performance Shares shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country of residence (and country of employment, if different) as set forth in the addendum to this Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Addendum").  Further, if you transfer your residence and/or employment to another country reflected in the Addendum, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Performance Shares and the Plan (or the Company may establish alternative terms and conditions as may be necessary or advisable to accommodate your transfer).  The Addendum shall constitute part of this Agreement. 
  22.        Additional Requirements  .  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Performance Shares, any shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Performance Shares and your participation in the Plan to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that such other requirements are necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Performance Shares and the Plan.  Such requirements may include (but are not limited to) requiring you to sign any agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
  23.        Amendment or Modification, Waiver  .  Except as set forth in the Plan, no provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived unless the amendment or waiver is agreed to in writing, signed by you and by a duly authorized officer of the Company. No waiver of any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar condition or provision at the same time, any prior time or any subsequent time. 
  24.        Electronic Delivery  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, deliver by electronic means any documents related to the Award or your future participation in the Plan.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  25.        Governing Law and Jurisdiction  .  This Agreement is governed by the substantive and procedural laws of the state of Illinois.  You and the Company shall submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts in Illinois in any dispute relating to this Agreement without regard to any choice of law rules thereof which might apply the laws of any other jurisdiction. 
  26.        English Language  .  If you are resident in a country where English is not an official language, you acknowledge and agree that it is your express intent that this Agreement, the Plan and all other documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant to the Award, be drawn up in English.  If you have received this Agreement, the Plan or any other documents related to the Award translated into a language other than English, and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
  27.        Conformity with Applicable Law  .  If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement shall be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. 
  28.        Successors  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company and any person or persons who shall, upon your death, acquire any rights hereunder. 
  **** 
  This Agreement contains highly sensitive and confidential information.  Please handle it accordingly.   
  Please read the attached Exhibit A.  Once you have read and understood this Agreement and Exhibit A, please click the acceptance box to certify and confirm your agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and Exhibit A and to acknowledge your receipt of the Prospectus, the Plan and this Agreement and your acceptance of the terms and conditions of the Award granted hereunder.  

EXHIBIT A 
  ADDENDUM TO THE  WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN      PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 
  In addition to the terms of the Plan and the Agreement, the Award is subject to the following additional terms and conditions to the extent you reside and/or are employed in one of the countries addressed herein.  Pursuant to Section 21 of the Agreement, if you transfer your residence and/or employment to another country reflected in this Addendum, the additional terms and conditions for such country (if any) will apply to you to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Performance Shares and the Plan (or the Company may establish alternative terms as may be necessary or advisable to accommodate your transfer).  All defined terms contained in this Addendum shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Plan and the Agreement.   
  CHILE 
    
    Private Placement  .  The following provision shall replace Section 13 of the Agreement: 
    
  The grant of the Performance Shares hereunder is not intended to be a public offering of securities in Chile but instead is intended to be a private placement. 
           a) 
    The starting date of the offer will be the Grant Date, and this offer conforms to general ruling no. 336 of the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance; 
              b) 
    The offer deals with securities not registered in the registry of securities or in the registry of foreign securities of the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance, and therefore such securities are not subject to its oversight;  
              c) 
    The issuer is not obligated to provide public information in Chile regarding the foreign securities, since such securities are not registered with the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance; and  
              d) 
    The foreign securities shall not be subject to public offering as long as they are not registered with the corresponding registry of securities in Chile. 
              a) 
    La fecha de inicio de la oferta ser  el de la fecha de otorgamiento y esta oferta se acoge a la norma de car cter general n  336 de la superintendencia de valores y seguros chilena;  
              b) 
    La oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el registro de valores o en el registro de valores extranjeros que lleva la superintendencia de valores y seguros chilena, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta;  
              c) 
    Por tratar de valores no inscritos no existe la obligaci n por parte del emisor de entregar en chile informaci n p blica respecto de esos valores; y 
              d) 
    Esos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica mientras no sean inscritos en el registro de valores correspondiente. 
     FRANCE 
    
  1.      Nature of Grant  .  The Performance Shares are not granted under the French specific regime provided by Articles L. 225-197-1 and seq. of the French commercial code. 
    
  2.      Use of English Language  .  You acknowledge that it is your express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.    Vous reconnaissez avoir express ment exig  la r daction en anglais de la pr sente Convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relatifs  , ou suite  , la pr sente Convention. 
    
  HONG KONG 
    
  1.  Form of Payment  .  Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement or Plan to the contrary, the Performance Shares shall be settled only in Shares (and not in cash). 
    
  2.  IMPORTANT NOTICE  .  WARNING: The contents of the Agreement, this Addendum, the Plan, the Plan prospectus, the Plan administrative rules and all other materials pertaining to the Performance Shares and/or the Plan have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are hereby advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer thereunder.  If you have any doubts about any of the contents of the aforesaid materials, you should obtain independent professional advice. 
    
  3.  Wages  .  The Performance Shares and shares of Stock subject to the Performance Shares do not form part of your wages for the purposes of calculating any statutory or contractual payments under Hong Kong law. 
    
  ITALY 
    
    Plan Acknowledgment  .  In accepting the Performance Shares, you acknowledge that a copy of the Plan was made available to you, and you have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and the Addendum.  
    
  You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically approve the following provisions in the Agreement:  Section 3: Determination of Performance Shares Earned (threshold levels for earning Performance Shares); Section 4: Disability or Death (terms of payment of Performance Shares upon a Termination of Service by reason of Disability or death); Section 5: Retirement (terms of payment of Performance Shares upon a Termination of Service by reason of Retirement); Section 6: Termination of Service Following a Change in Control (terms of payment of Performance Shares in the event of a Termination of Services following a Change in Control); Section 7: Other Termination of Service (forfeiture of Performance Shares in other cases of Termination of Service); Section 9(a): Responsibility for Taxes; Tax Withholding (liability for all Tax-Related Items related to the Performance Shares and legally applicable to the participant; Section 10: Nontransferability (Performance Shares shall not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated); Section 17: Change in Stock (right of the Company to equitably adjust the number of Performance Shares subject to this Agreement in the event of any change in Stock); Section 18(j): Nature of the Award (waive any claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arising from forfeiture of the Performance Shares resulting from a Termination of Service); Section 18(l): Nature of the Award (the Company is not liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation impacting the value of the Performance Shares); Section 19: Committee Authority; Recoupment (right of the Committee to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Performance Shares and this Agreement, including the enforcement of any recoupment policy); Section 21: Addendum to Agreement (the Performance Shares are subject to the terms of the Addendum); Section 22: Additional Requirements (Company right to impose additional requirements on the Performance Shares in case such requirements are necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate operation and administration of the Performance Shares and the Plan); Section 24: Electronic Delivery (Company may deliver documents related to the Award or Plan electronically); Section 25: Governing Law and Jurisdiction (Agreement is governed by Illinois law without regard to any choice of law rules thereof; agreement to exclusive jurisdiction of Illinois courts); Section 26: English Language (documents will be drawn up in English; if a translation is provided, the English version controls).  
    
  MEXICO 
    
  1.  Commercial Relationship  .  You expressly recognize that your participation in the Plan and the Company's grant of the Performance Shares does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company.  You have been granted the Performance Shares as a consequence of the commercial relationship between the Company and the Affiliate in Mexico that employs you ("WBA Mexico"), and WBA Mexico your sole employer.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that (a) the Plan and the benefits you may derive from your participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and WBA Mexico, (b) the Plan and the benefits you may derive from your participation in the Plan are not part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by WBA Mexico, and (c) any modifications or amendments of the Plan by the Company, or a termination of the Plan by the Company, shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment with WBA Mexico. 
    
  2.  Extraordinary Item of Compensation  .  You expressly recognize and acknowledge that your participation in the Plan is a result of the discretionary and unilateral decision of the Company, as well as your free and voluntary decision to participate in the Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.  As such, you acknowledge and agree that the Company, in its sole discretion, may amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time and without any liability.  The Award, the shares of Stock subject to the Award and the value of same is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment contract, if any, and is not part of your regular or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or any similar payments, which are the exclusive obligations of WBA Mexico.  
    
  MONACO 
    
    Use of English Language  .  You acknowledge that it is your express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.    Vous reconnaissez avoir express ment exig  la r daction en anglais de la pr sente Convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relatifs  , ou suite  , la pr sente Convention. 
    
  NETHERLANDS 
    
    Exclusion of Claim  .  You acknowledge and agree that you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from your ceasing to have rights under or to be entitled to the Performance Shares, whether or not as a result of your Termination of Service (whether such termination is in breach of contract or otherwise), or from the loss or diminution in value of the Performance Shares.  Upon the grant of Performance Shares, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement. 
    
  ROMANIA 
    
    Voluntary Termination of Service  .  For the sake of clarity, a voluntary Termination of Service shall include the situation where your employment contract is terminated by operation of law on the date you reach the standard retirement age and have completed the minimum contribution record for receipt of state retirement pension or the relevant authorities award you an early-retirement pension of any type. 
    
  RUSSIA 
    
  1.  No Offering of Securities in Russia  .  The grant of the Performance Shares is not intended to be an offering of securities within the territory of the Russian Federation, and you acknowledge and agree that you will be unable to make any subsequent sale of the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Performance Shares in the Russian Federation. 
    
  2.  Repatriation Requirements  .  You agree to promptly repatriate the proceeds resulting from the sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan to a foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia if legally required at the time shares of Stock are sold and to comply with all applicable local foreign exchange rules and regulations. Neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates shall be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  
    
  SPAIN 
    
  1.  Acknowledgement of Discretionary Nature of the Plan; No Vested Rights  . This provision supplements the terms of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting the Award, you acknowledge that you consent to participation in the Plan and have received a copy of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion granted Performance Shares under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis.  Consequently, you understand that the Performance Shares are granted on the assumption and condition that the Performance Shares and the shares of Stock acquired upon settlement of the Performance Shares shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that this grant would not be made to you but for the assumptions and conditions referenced above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, the Award shall be null and void. 
    
  Further, you understand and agree that the earning of the Performance Shares is expressly conditioned on your continued and active rendering of service, such that upon a Termination of Service, the Performance Shares may be forfeited effective on the date of your Termination of Service (unless otherwise specifically provided in Section 4, 5 or 6 of the Agreement).  This will be the case, for example, even if (a) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause; (b) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective dismissal; (c) you terminate service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition, (d) you terminate service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Company or an Affiliate.  Consequently, upon a Termination of Service for any of the above reasons, you may automatically lose any rights to the Performance Shares as of the date of your Termination of Service, as described in the Plan and Agreement.   
    
  You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in the Agreement regarding the impact of a Termination of Service on your Award. 
    
  2.  Termination for Cause  .  "Cause" shall be defined as indicated in Section 7 of the Agreement, irrespective of whether the termination is or is not considered a fair termination (i.e., "despido procedente") under Spanish legislation. 
    
  3.  No Public Offering  .  No "offer of securities to the public," within the meaning of Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory in connection with the Performance Shares.  The Plan, the Agreement (including this Addendum) and any other documents evidencing the grant of the Performance Shares have not, nor will they be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores   (the Spanish securities regulator) and none of those documents constitute a public offering prospectus.  
    
  SWITZERLAND 
    
    Securities Law Notification  .  The Performance Shares are not considered a public offering in Switzerland; therefore, the offer of Performance Shares is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Performance Shares constitute a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Performance Shares may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other offering or marketing materials relating to the Performance Shares have been or will be filed with, or approved or supervised by, any Swiss regulatory authority (in particular, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA)). 
    
  TURKEY 
    
    Securities Law Notification  .  The sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan is not permitted within Turkey.  The sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan must occur outside of Turkey.  The shares of Stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol "WBA" and shares of Stock may be sold on this exchange. 
    
  UNITED KINGDOM 
    
  1.      Indemnification for Tax-Related Items  . Without limitation to Section 9 of the Agreement, you hereby agree that you are liable for all Tax-Related Items and hereby covenant to pay all such Tax-Related Items, as and when requested by the Company, your Employer or by Her Majesty's Revenue   Customs ("HMRC") (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority).  You also hereby agree to indemnify and keep indemnified the Company and your Employer against any Tax-Related Items that they are required to pay or withhold or have paid or will pay on your behalf to HMRC (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority). 
    
  2.      Exclusion of Claim  .  You acknowledge and agree that you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from your ceasing to have rights under or to be entitled to the Performance Shares, whether or not as a result of your Termination of Service (whether such termination is in breach of contract or otherwise), or from the loss or diminution in value of the Performance Shares.  Upon the grant of the Performance Shares, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement. 
    
  ***                    ***                    ***                    ***                    *** 
  By clicking the acceptance box for this grant agreement, I acknowledge receipt of the Performance Share Award Agreement to which this Addendum is attached as Exhibit A, and I agree to the terms and conditions expressed in this Addendum. 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 exhibit107.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.7

Exhibit 

[OGE218] 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 
    
  2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN 
    
  STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 

These materials, which may include descriptions of company stock plans, prospectuses and other information and documents, and the information they contain, are provided by your company, not by Fidelity, and are not an offer or solicitation by Fidelity for the purchase of any securities or financial instruments.  These materials were prepared by your company, which is solely responsible for their contents and for compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.  Fidelity is not connected with any offering or acting as an underwriter in connection with any offering of your company's securities or financial instruments.  Fidelity does not review, approve or endorse the contents of these materials and is not responsible for their content. 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 
  2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Participant Name:   
  Participant ID:   
  Grant Date:              (the "Grant Date") 
  Grant Price:   
  Shares Granted:            (the "Shares Granted") 
  Vesting:  One third of the Shares Granted vest on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date (the "Vesting Dates")  
  Expiration Date:               (the "Expiration Date") 
  Acceptance Date:   
  Electronic Signature:   
  This document (referred to below as this "Agreement") spells out the terms and conditions of the stock option (the "Option") granted to you by Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan") on and as of the Grant Date designated above.  Except as otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the respective meanings set forth in the Plan.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Employer" means the entity (the Company or the Affiliate) that employs you on the applicable date.  The Plan, as in effect on the date of this Agreement and as it may be amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. 
  You and the Company agree as follows: 
  1.  Grant of Option  .  Pursuant to the approval and direction of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"), the Company hereby grants you an Option to purchase all or any part of the number of Shares Granted set forth above of common stock of the Company, par value US$.01 ("Stock"), at the per-share exercise price, which is 100% of the fair market value of a share of Stock on the Grant Date (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.  The Option is intended to be a "non-qualified stock option" and shall not be treated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. 
  2.        Vesting/Exercise/Expiration  .  You may not exercise the Option prior to the Vesting Date or Dates set forth above absent action by the Committee to waive or alter such restrictions or as may be permitted under the below paragraphs.  Thereafter, except as hereinafter provided, you may exercise the Option, to the extent it is vested, at any time and from time to time until the close of business on the Expiration Date set forth above.  The Option may be exercised to purchase any number of whole shares of Stock, except that no purchase shall be for less than ten (10) full shares of Stock, or the remaining unexercised shares, if less.  The Option is deemed to be "outstanding" until it has been exercised in full or expired pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. 
  3.        Disability  .  If, without having fully exercised the Option, you have a Termination of Service due to Disability, then any Shares Granted under the Option that are not yet vested at that time shall thereupon become vested and (a) you may exercise the Option for the full number of Shares Granted (less any shares for which the Option was previously exercised), but (b) your right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is one (1) year following the date of your Termination of Service.  
  4.        Death  .  If, without having fully exercised the Option, you have a Termination of Service due to your death, then any Shares Granted under the Option that are not yet vested at that time shall thereupon become fully vested and (a) the Option may be exercised by the executor or administrator of your estate or by such person or persons who shall have acquired your rights hereunder by bequest or inheritance or by designation as your beneficiary for the full number of Shares Granted (less any shares for which the Option was previously exercised), but (b), such person's right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is one (1) year after the date of your death.   
  5.        Retirement  .  If without having fully exercised the Option you have a Termination of Service by reason of Retirement, then (a) the number of Shares Granted for which you may exercise the Option shall be determined by treating each Vesting Date specified in the introduction to this Agreement as occurring one (1) year prior to that Vesting Date, but (b) your right to exercise any portion of the Option that is vested upon your Retirement shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is one (1) year after the date of your Retirement.  Shares Granted for which you cannot exercise the Option under this Section 5 shall be forfeited.  
  6.        Termination of Service Following a Change in Control  .  If there is a Change in Control of the Company and within the one-year period thereafter you have a Termination of Service initiated by your Employer other than for Cause (as defined in Section 8), then any Shares Granted under the Option that are not yet vested at that time shall thereupon become vested and (a) you may exercise the Option for the full number of Shares Granted (less any shares for which the Option was previously exercised), but (b) your right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is ninety (90) days after the date of your Termination of Service, subject to the right of the Committee to extend the exercise period of the Option.  Shares Granted for which you cannot exercise the Option under this Section 6 shall be forfeited.  The foregoing is also subject to the Committee's exercise of its discretion under Section 9.01 of the Plan. For purposes of this Section 6, a Termination of Service initiated by your Employer shall include a Termination of Employment for Good Reason under - and pursuant to the terms and conditions of   the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan, but only to the extent applicable to you as an eligible participant in such Plan. 
  7.        Other Termination of Service  .  If without having fully exercised the Option you have a voluntary or involuntary Termination of Service for any reason other than as set forth in Section 3, 4, 5 or 6 above, as determined by the Committee, then (a) for any Shares Granted with respect to which such Termination of Service is prior to the applicable Vesting Date, the Option shall be forfeited, and (b) for any Shares Granted with respect to which such Termination of Service is on or after the applicable Vesting Date, then your right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is ninety (90) days after the date of your Termination of Service.  The foregoing is subject to the right of the Committee to extend the exercise period of the Option, including any extension granted by the Committee or its delegate as needed to allow your right to exercise to extend beyond a period during which you are restricted from exercising the Option due to a Company-designated trading blackout period, and is subject to earlier expiration as provided in Section 8 below. 
  8.        Forfeiture of Outstanding Options Upon Termination for Cause or Following Termination of Service  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, your remaining right, if any, to exercise the Option shall immediately terminate if you are terminated for Cause or if and when you violate any post-employment obligation that you may have to the Company, including but not limited to any non-competition, non-solicitation, confidentiality, non-disparagement or other restrictive covenant.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means any one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion: 
  (a)        your commission of a felony or any crime of moral turpitude;  
  (b)        your dishonesty or material violation of standards of integrity in the course of fulfilling your employment duties to the Company or any Affiliate; 
  (c)        your material violation of a material written policy of the Company or any Affiliate violation of which is grounds for immediate termination;  
  (d)        your willful and deliberate failure to perform your employment duties to the Company or any Affiliate in any material respect, after reasonable notice of such failure and an opportunity to correct it; or  
  (e)        your failure to comply in any material respect with the United States ("U.S.") Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act, or any rules or regulations thereunder. 
  9.        Exercise Process  .  The Option may be exercised by giving notice to Fidelity, the third party administrator to administer the Option exercise process.  The exercise notice (a) shall be signed by you or (in the event of your death) your legal representative, (b) shall specify the number of full shares of Stock then elected to be purchased, and (c) shall be accompanied by payment in full of the Exercise Price of the shares of Stock to be purchased.  Payment may be made in cash or by check payable to the order of the Company, and such payment shall include any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan that are required to be withheld ("Tax-Related Items"), as set forth in Section 10 below.  Alternatively, the Committee may allow for one or more of the following methods of exercising the Option: 
  (a)    Payment for shares of Stock as to which the Option is being exercised and/or payment of any Tax-Related Items may be made by transfer to the Company of shares of Stock you already own, or any combination of such shares of Stock and cash, having a fair market value determined at the time of exercise of the Option equal to, but not exceeding, the Exercise Price and/or any Tax-Related Items, as the case may be.   
  (b)    A "same day sale" transaction pursuant to which a third party (engaged by you or the Company) loans funds to you to enable you to purchase the shares of Stock and pay any Tax-Related Items, and then sells a sufficient number of the exercised shares of Stock on your behalf to enable you to repay the loan and any fees.  The remaining shares of Stock and/or cash are then delivered by the third party to you. 
  (c)    A "net exercise" transaction, pursuant to which the Company delivers to you the net number of whole shares of Stock remaining from the portion of the Option being exercised after deduction of a number of shares of Stock with a fair market value equal to the Exercise Price and the amount of any Tax-Related Items. 
  As promptly as practicable after receipt of such notice of exercise and payment (including payment with respect to any Tax-Related Items), subject to Section 13 below, the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to you (or in the event of your death to your legal representative, as the case may be), certificates for the shares of Stock so purchased.  Alternatively, such shares of Stock may be issued and held in book entry form. 
  Notwithstanding any provision within this Agreement to the contrary, if you are resident or employed outside of the U.S., the Committee may require that you (or in the event of your death, your legal representative, as the case may be) exercise the Option in a method other than as specified above, may require you to exercise the Option only by means of a "same day sale" transaction (either a "sell-all" transaction or a "sell-to-cover" transaction) as it shall determine in its sole discretion, or may require you to sell any shares of Stock you acquire under the Plan immediately or within a specified period following your Termination of Service (in which case, you hereby agree that the Company shall have the authority to issue sale instructions in relation to such shares of Stock on your behalf). 
  10.        Responsibility for Taxes; Tax Withholding  .   
  (a)    You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or your Employer, the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or your Employer, if any.  You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or your Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, you authorize the Company, your Employer or its agent to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by withholding from the shares of Stock to be delivered upon exercise of the Option that number of shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required by law to be withheld. For purposes of the foregoing, no fractional shares of Stock will be withheld or issued pursuant to the grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock hereunder. 

The Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable statutory minimum withholding rates (as determined by the Company in good faith and in its sole discretion) or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the share equivalent.  As the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding from the shares of Stock to be delivered upon exercise of the Option, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Stock subject to the exercised Option, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. 
  You agree to pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares of Stock or the proceeds from the sale of shares of Stock if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
  11.        Limited Transferability  .  You may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate the Option, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law, other than by beneficiary designation effective upon your death, by will or by the laws of intestacy.  During your lifetime, the Option and all rights granted hereunder shall be exercisable only by you.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may transfer the Option, in whole or in part, by gift to a Permitted Transferee in accordance with rules and subject to any conditions specified by the Committee under the Plan.  
  12.        Rights as Shareholder  .  You shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the shares of Stock subject to the Option until such time as the Exercise Price has been paid and a certificate of stock for such shares has been issued to you or such shares of Stock have been recorded in your name in book entry form.  Except as provided in Section 18 below, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or distributions or other rights with respect to such shares of Stock for which the record date is prior to the date on which you become the holder of record thereof.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if a law or any regulation of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or of any other body having jurisdiction shall require the Company or you to take any action before shares of Stock can be delivered to you hereunder, then the date of delivery of such shares may be delayed accordingly. 
  13.        Securities Laws  .  If a Registration Statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is not in effect with respect to the shares of Stock to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement, you hereby represent that you are acquiring the shares of Stock for investment and with no present intention of selling or transferring them and that you will not sell or otherwise transfer the shares of Stock except in compliance with all applicable securities laws and requirements of any stock exchange on which the shares of Stock may then be listed. 
  14.        Not a Public Offering  .  If you are resident outside the U.S., the grant of the Option is not intended to be a public offering of securities in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different).  The Company has not submitted any registration statement, prospectus or other filings with the local securities authorities (unless otherwise required under local law), and the grant of the Option is not subject to the supervision of the local securities authorities. 
  15.        Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws  .  Your country of residence may have insider trading and/or market abuse laws that may affect your ability to acquire or sell shares of Stock under the Plan during such times you are considered to have "inside information" (as defined by the laws in your country).  These laws may be the same or different from any Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be informed of and compliant with such regulations, and you are advised to speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
  16.        Repatriation; Compliance with Law; Method of Exercise  .  If you are resident or employed outside the U.S., as a condition of the Option, you agree to repatriate all payments attributable to the shares of Stock and/or cash acquired under the Plan in accordance with applicable foreign exchange rules and regulations in your country of residence (and country of employment, if different).  In addition, you agree to take any and all actions, and consent to any and all actions taken by the Company and its Affiliates, as may be required to allow the Company and its Affiliates to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations in your country of residence (and country of employment, if different).  Finally, you agree to take any and all actions as may be required to comply with your personal obligations under local laws, rules and/or regulations in your country of residence and country of employment, if different). 
  17.        No Advice Regarding Grant  .  No employee of the Company is permitted to advise you regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the shares of Stock underlying the Option.  Investment in shares of Stock involves a degree of risk.  Before deciding to purchase shares of Stock pursuant to the Option, you should carefully consider all risk factors relevant to the acquisition of shares of Stock under the Plan and you should carefully review all of the materials related to the Option and the Plan. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors before taking any action related to the Plan. 
  18.        Change in Stock  .  In the event of any change in Stock by reason of any stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, split-up, merger, consolidation, exchange of shares, or of any similar change affecting Stock, the number of shares of Stock subject to the Option and the Exercise Price shall be equitably adjusted by the Committee.  
  19.        Nature of the Option  .  In accepting the Option, you acknowledge, understand and agree that: 
  (a)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and limited in duration, and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company, in its sole discretion, at any time; 
  (b)    the grant of the Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of stock options, or benefits in lieu of stock options, even if stock options have been granted in the past; 
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future grants of stock options or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company, including, but not limited to, the form and timing of any grant, the number of shares of Stock subject to the stock options, vesting provisions, and the exercise price applicable to the stock option; 
  (d)     the Option and your participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or service contract with the Company or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, your Employer or an Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate your employment or service relationship; 
  (e)    you are voluntarily participating in the Plan; 
  (f)    the Option and the shares of Stock subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
  (g)    the Option, the shares of Stock subject to the Option and the value of same, is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment (and employment contract, if any) and is not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, without limitation, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments; 
  (h)    the future value of the shares of Stock underlying the Option is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty; 
  (i)    unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, a Termination of Service shall be effective from the date on which active employment or service ends and shall not be extended by any statutory or common law notice of termination period; 
  (j)    no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Option resulting from a Termination of Service (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the Option to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, your Employer or any Affiliate, waive your ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and release the Company, the Employer and all Affiliates from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
  (k)    unless otherwise provided herein, in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the Option and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Option or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of Stock of the Company; and 
  (l)    neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the U.S. dollar that may affect the value of the Option or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Option or the subsequent sale of any shares of Stock acquired upon settlement of the Option.  
  20.        Committee Authority; Recoupment  .  It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, including the enforcement of any recoupment policy, all of which shall be binding upon you and any claimant.  Any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Plan shall be resolved in favor of the Plan. 
  21.        Consent to Collection/Processing/Transfer of Personal Data  .  Pursuant to applicable personal data protection laws, the Company hereby notifies you of the following in relation to your personal data and the collection, processing and transfer of such data in relation to the Company's grant of the Option and your participation in the Plan.  The collection, processing and transfer of personal data is necessary for the Company's administration of the Plan and your participation in the Plan, and your denial and/or objection to the collection, processing and transfer of personal data may affect your participation in the Plan.  As such, you voluntarily acknowledge and consent (where required under applicable law) to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described herein: 
  (a)    The Company and your Employer hold certain personal information about you, including (but not limited to) your name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social security, passport or other employee identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all entitlements to shares of Stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data").  Data may be provided by you or collected, where lawful, from the Company, its Affiliates and/or third parties, and the Company and your Employer will process Data for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  Data processing will take place through electronic and non-electronic means according to logics and procedures strictly correlated to the purposes for which Data are collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different).  Data processing operations will be performed minimizing the use of personal and identification data when such operations are unnecessary for the processing purposes sought.  Data will be accessible within the organization only by those persons requiring access for purposes of the implementation, administration and operation of the Plan and for the participation in the Plan. 
  (b)    The Company and your Employer will transfer Data internally as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and the Company and/or your Employer may further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  These recipients may be located in the European Economic Area, or elsewhere throughout the world, such as the United States.  You hereby authorize (where required under applicable law) the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Data, in electronic or other form, as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of the shares of Stock on your behalf, to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. 
  (c)    You may, at any time, exercise your rights provided under applicable personal data protection laws, which may include the right to (i) obtain confirmation as to the existence of Data, (ii) verify the content, origin and accuracy of Data, (iii) request the integration, update, amendment, deletion or blockage (for breach of applicable laws) of Data, (iv) oppose, for legal reasons, the collection, processing or transfer of the Data which is not necessary or required for the implementation, administration and/or operation of the Plan and your participation in the Plan, and (v) withdraw your consent to the collection, processing or transfer of Data as provided hereunder (in which case, the Option will become null and void).  You may seek to exercise these rights by contacting your Human Resources manager or the Company's Human Resources Department, who may direct the matter to the applicable Company privacy official. 
  22.        Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality  .  As a condition to the receipt of the Option, you must agree to the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A by executing that Agreement.  Failure to execute and return the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement within 120 days of the Grant Date shall constitute your decision to decline to accept this Award.   
  23.        Addendum to Agreement  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country of residence (and country of employment, if different) as set forth in the addendum to this Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Addendum").  Further, if you transfer your residence and/or employment to another country reflected in the Addendum, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Option and the Plan (or the Company may establish alternative terms and conditions as may be necessary or advisable to accommodate your transfer).  The Addendum shall constitute part of this Agreement. 
  24.        Additional Requirements  .  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Option, any shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Option and your participation in the Plan to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that such other requirements are necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Option and the Plan.  Such requirements may include (but are not limited to) requiring you to sign any agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
  25.        Amendment or Modification, Waiver  .  Except as set forth in the Plan, no provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived unless the amendment or waiver is agreed to in writing, signed by you and by a duly authorized officer of the Company. No waiver of any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar condition or provision at the same time, any prior time or any subsequent time. 
  26.        Electronic Delivery  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, deliver by electronic means any documents related to the Option or your future participation in the Plan.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  27.        Governing Law and Jurisdiction  .  This Agreement is governed by the substantive and procedural laws of the state of Illinois.  You and the Company shall submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts in Illinois in any dispute relating to this Agreement without regard to any choice or law rules thereof which might apply the laws of any other jurisdiction.    
  28.        English Language  .  If you are resident in a country where English is not an official language, you acknowledge and agree that it is your express intent that this Agreement, the Plan and all other documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant to the Option, be drawn up in English.  If you have received this Agreement, the Plan or any other documents related to the Option translated into a language other than English, and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
  29.        Conformity with Applicable Law  .  If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement shall be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. 
  30.        Successors  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company and any person or persons who shall, upon your death, acquire any rights hereunder. 
  **** 
  This Agreement contains highly sensitive and confidential information.  Please handle it accordingly.   
  Please read the attached Exhibits A and B. Once you have read and understood this Agreement and Exhibits A and B, please click the acceptance box to certify and confirm your agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and Exhibits A and B, and to acknowledge your receipt of the Prospectus, the Plan and this Agreement and your acceptance of the terms and conditions of the Option granted hereunder. 
    
  EXHIBIT A 
  WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION AND CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT 
  This Exhibit forms a part of the Stock Option Award Agreement covering Options awarded to an employee of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., on behalf of itself, its affiliates, subsidiaries, and successors (collectively referred to as "Employee" and the "Company"). 
  WHEREAS, the Company develops and/or uses valuable business, technical, proprietary, customer and patient information it protects by limiting its disclosure and by keeping it secret or confidential; 
  WHEREAS, Employee acknowledges that during the course of employment, he or she has or will receive, contribute, or develop such confidential information; and 
  WHEREAS, the Company desires to protect from its competitors such confidential information and also desires to protect its legitimate business interests and goodwill in maintaining its employee and customer relationships. 
  NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the Stock Option issued to Employee pursuant the Agreement to which this is attached as Exhibit A, Employee agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement: 
  1.  Confidentiality  .      At all times during and after the termination of my employment with the Company, I will not, without the Company's prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Trade Secrets or other Confidential Information of the Company or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain Trade Secrets or otherwise confidential, as further defined below. 
           a. 
     "Trade Secrets" are a form of intellectual property and may include all tangible and intangible forms and types of financial, business, scientific, technical, economic, or engineering information, including patterns, plans, compilations, program devices, formulas, designs, prototypes, methods, techniques, processes, procedures, programs or codes, and may in particular include such things as pricing information, business records, software programs, algorithms, inventions, patent applications, and designs and processes not known outside the Company.  Trade Secrets may be stored, compiled, memorialized or contained in various forms or media, such as paper, electronic media or transmission (such as disc, email, file transfers, tape, or web site features), all other forms of audio and/or video transfer, or even oral communications. 
              b. 
    "Confidential Information" shall include Trade Secrets and, more broadly, any information or material which is not generally known to the public, and which (i) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business of the Company or the Company's actual or prospective vendors or clients; or (ii) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any client of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company's express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.   Confidential Information may take a variety of forms including but not limited to paper, electronic, media or transmission (such as email, file transfers, tape or web site features), and all other forms of audio and/or video transfer. Examples of confidential information include, but are not limited to, customer, referral source, supplier and contractor identification and contacts, confidential information about customers, business relationships, contract terms, pricing and margins, business, marketing and customer plans and strategies, financial data, techniques, formulations, technical know-how, formulae, research, development and production information, processes, designs, architectures, prototypes, models, software,  patent applications and plans, projections, proposals, discussion guides, personal or performance information about employees, or legal advice related to the foregoing.  
     The restrictions set forth in this paragraph are in addition to and not in lieu of any obligations I have by law with respect to the Company's Confidential Information, including any obligations I may owe under the federal Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016 (the "TSA") and any applicable state statutes.  Further, nothing herein shall prohibit me from divulging evidence of criminal wrongdoing to law enforcement or prohibit me from disclosing Confidential Information or Trade Secrets if compelled by order of court or an agency of competent jurisdiction or as required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity to seek a protective order. Pursuant to the TSA, I understand that     an individual may not be held criminally or civilly liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that: (A) is made (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney, and (ii) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. Additionally  ,   I understand that     an individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to his or her attorney and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, so long as any document containing the trade secret is filed under seal and the individual does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order.   Nothing in this Agreement is intended to conflict with the TSA or create liability for disclosures of Trade Secrets that are expressly allowed by TSA. 
  2.      Non-Competition  .      I agree that during my employment with the Company and for one year after the termination of my employment, I will not, directly or indirectly, invest in, own, operate, finance, control, or provide Competing Services to any Competing Business Line, in both cases as defined below.  I understand that the restrictions in this paragraph apply no matter whether my employment is terminated by me or the Company and no matter whether that termination is voluntary or involuntary.  The above restrictions shall not apply to passive investments of less than 5% ownership interest in any entity. I understand that the term "Competing Business Line" used in this Agreement means any business that is in competition with any business engaged in by the Company with respect to which I provide substantial services during the last two years of my employment with the Company. 
  I understand that I will be deemed to be providing "Competing Services" if the nature of such services are sufficiently similar in position, scope and geographic area to any position held by me during the last two years of my employment with the Company. 
  3.      Non-Solicitation  .      I agree that during my employment with the Company and for two years after the termination of my employment from the Company for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary: 
           (a)  
    I will not directly or indirectly, solicit any Restricted Customer for purposes of providing Competing Products or Services, or offer, provide or sell Competing Products or Services to any Restricted Customer.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Competing Products or Services" means products or services that are competitive with products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any Restricted Customer, and "Restricted Customer" means any person, company or entity which was a customer, potential customer, vendor, supplier or referral source of the Company and with which I had direct contact or about which I learned confidential information at any time during the last two years of my employment with the Company; and 
              (b) 
    I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, or attempt to persuade any employee of the Company with whom I currently work or with whom I worked at any point during the last two years preceding the termination of my employment with the Company,  and who possesses or had access to confidential information of the Company, to leave the employ of the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such employee of his/her duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such employee for the purposes described in items (i) and (ii) in this paragraph. 
     4.      Non-Inducement  .  I will not directly or indirectly assist or encourage any person or entity in carrying out or conducting any activity that would be prohibited by this Agreement if such activity were carried out or conducted by me. 
  5.      Non-Disparagement  .      I agree (whether or not I am then an Employee) not to make negative comments or otherwise disparage the Company, its Affiliates, or any of their officers, directors, employees, shareholders, members, agents or products other than in the good faith performance of my duties to the Company and its Affiliates while I am employed by the Company and its Affiliates and thereafter.  The foregoing shall not be violated by truthful statements in response to legal process, required governmental testimony or filings, or administrative or arbitral proceedings (including, without limitation, depositions in connection with such proceedings). 
  6.      Intellectual Property.    The term "Intellectual Property" shall mean all trade secrets, ideas, inventions, designs, developments, devices, software, computer programs, methods and processes (whether or not patented or patentable, reduced to practice or included in the Confidential Information) and all patents and patent applications related thereto, all copyrights, copyrightable works and mask works (whether or not included in the Confidential Information) and all registrations and  applications for registration related thereto, all Confidential Information, and all other proprietary rights contributed to, or conceived or created by, or reduced to practice by Employee or anyone acting on his/her behalf (whether alone or jointly with others) at any time from the beginning of Employee's employment with Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. to the termination of that employment plus ninety (90) days, that (i) relate to the business or to the actual or anticipated research or development of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.; (ii) result from any services that Employee or anyone acting on its behalf perform for Walgreens; or (iii) are created using the equipment, supplies or facilities of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. or any Confidential Information.  
           a. 
    Ownership  .  All Intellectual Property is, shall be and shall remain the exclusive property of the Company.  Employee hereby assigns to the Company all right, title and interest, if any, in and to the Intellectual Property; provided, however, that, when applicable, the Company shall own the copyrights in all copyrightable works included in the Intellectual Property pursuant to the "work-made-for-hire" doctrine (rather than by assignment), as such term is defined in the 1976 Copyright Act.  All Intellectual Property shall be owned by the Company irrespective of any copyright notices or confidentiality legends to the contrary which may be placed on such works by Employee or by others.  Employee shall ensure that all copyright notices and confidentiality legends on all work product authored by Employee or anyone acting on his/her behalf shall conform to the Company's practices and shall specify the Company as the owner of the work.  The Company hereby provides notice to Employee that the obligation to assign does not apply to an invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility, or trade secret information of the Company was used and which was developed entirely on the Employee's own time, unless (a) the invention relates (i) to the business of the Company, or (ii) to the Company's actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (b) the invention results from any work performed by Employee for the Company. 
              b. 
    Keep Records  .  Employee shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained by anyone acting on his/her behalf, adequate and current written records of all Intellectual Property in the form of notes, sketches, drawings, computer files, reports or other documents relating thereto.  Such records shall be and shall remain the exclusive property of the Company and shall be available to the Company at all times during the term of this Agreement. 
              c. 
    Assistance  . Employee shall supply all assistance requested in securing for Company's benefit any patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, license, right or other evidence of ownership of any such Intellectual Property, and will provide full information regarding any such item and execute all appropriate documentation prepared by Company in applying or otherwise registering, in Company's name, all rights to any such item or the defense and protection of such Intellectual Property. 
              d. 
    Prior Inventions  .  Employee has disclosed to the Company any continuing obligations to any third party with respect to Intellectual Property.  Employee claims no rights to any inventions created prior to his/her employment for which a patent application has not previously been filed, unless he/she has described them in detail on a schedule attached to this Agreement. 
              e. 
    Trade Secret Provisions  .  The provisions in Paragraph 1 with regard to Trade Secrets and the TSA shall apply as well in the context of the parties' Intellectual Property rights and obligations. 
     7.      Return of Company Property  .  I agree that I will not take any of the Company's property or information with me when I leave the Company's employ, no matter what form that property or information is in and no matter how I acquired it.  When my employment with the Company terminates, I will immediately return to the Company any and all Company information, documents, and electronics.  
  8.      Consideration and Acknowledgments  .  I acknowledge and agree that the covenants described in this Agreement are essential terms, and the underlying Stock Option Award would not be provided by the Company in the absence of these covenants.  I further acknowledge that these covenants are supported by adequate consideration as set forth in this Agreement and are not in conflict with any public interest.    I further acknowledge and agree that I fully understand these covenants, have had full and complete opportunity to discuss and resolve any ambiguities or uncertainties regarding these covenants before signing this Agreement, and have voluntarily agreed to comply with these covenants for their stated terms.  I further acknowledge and agree that these covenants are reasonable and enforceable in all respects. 
  9.      Enforceability; General Provisions  .   
           (a) 
    I agree that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are reasonable and necessary to protect the Company's legitimate business interests and that   full compliance with the terms of this Agreement will not prevent me from earning a livelihood following the termination of my employment, and that these covenants do not place undue restraint on me.   
              (b) 
    Because the Company's current base of operations is in Illinois and my connections thereto, (i) this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois, where this Agreement is entered into, without giving effect to any conflict of law provisions, and (ii) I consent to personal jurisdiction and the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of Illinois with respect to any claim, dispute or declaration arising out of this Agreement. 
              (c) 
    In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement, I acknowledge that the Company will face irreparable injury which may be difficult to calculate in dollar terms and that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to all remedies otherwise available in law or in equity, to temporary restraining orders and preliminary and final injunctions enjoining such breach or threatened breach in any court of competent jurisdiction without the necessity of posting a surety bond, as well as to obtain an equitable accounting of all profits or benefits arising out of any violation of this Agreement. 
              (d) 
    I agree that if a court determines that any of the provisions in this Agreement is unenforceable or unreasonable in duration, territory, or scope, then that court shall modify those provisions so they are reasonable and enforceable, and enforce those provisions as modified.   
              (e) 
    If any phrase or provision of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that phrase, clause or provision shall be deemed severed from this Agreement, and will not affect the enforceability of any other provisions of this Agreement, which shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.   
              (f) 
    Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Agreement, the non-competition provisions of Paragraph 2 above shall not restrict Employee from performing legal services as a licensed attorney for a Competing Business to the extent that the attorney licensure requirements in the applicable jurisdiction do not permit Employee to agree to the otherwise applicable restrictions of Paragraph 2. 
              (g) 
    Waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement by the Company in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any provision in any other instance and/or of the Company's other rights at law or under this Agreement. 
              (h) 
    I agree that the Company may assign this Agreement to its successors and assigns and that any such successor or assign may stand in the Company's shoes for purposes of enforcing this Agreement. 
              (i)  
    I agree to reimburse the Company for all attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses that it reasonably incurs in connection with enforcing its rights and remedies under this Agreement, but only to the extent the Company is ultimately the prevailing party in the applicable legal proceedings. 
              (j) 
    If I violate this Agreement, then the restrictions set out in Paragraphs 2 - 6 shall be extended by the same period of time as the period of time during which the violation(s) occurred. 
              (k) 
    I   fully understand my obligations in this Agreement, have had full and complete opportunity to discuss and resolve any ambiguities or uncertainties regarding these covenants before signing this Agreement, and have voluntarily agreed to comply with these covenants for their stated terms. 
     10.      Relationship of Parties  .  I acknowledge that my relationship with the Company is "terminable at will" by either party and that the Company or I can terminate the relationship with or without cause and without following any specific procedures.  Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to or shall be relied upon to alter the "terminable at will" relationship between the parties.  I agree that my obligations in this Agreement shall survive the termination of my employment from the Company for any reason and shall be binding upon my successors, heirs, executors and representatives. 
  11.      Modifications and Other Agreements  .  I agree that the terms of this Agreement may not be modified except by a written agreement signed by both me and the Company.  This Agreement shall not supersede any other restrictive covenants to which I may be subject under an employment contract, benefit program or otherwise, such that the Company may enforce the terms of any and all restrictive covenants to which I am subject.  The obligations herein are in addition to and do not limit any obligations arising under applicable statutes and common law. 
  12.      Notification  .  I agree that in the event I am offered employment at any time in the future with any entity that may be considered a Competing Business Line, I shall immediately notify such Competing business of the existence and terms of this Agreement.  I also understand and agree that the Company may notify anyone attempting to or later employing me of the existence and provisions of this Agreement. 
  ***                    ***                    ***                    ***                    *** 
  By clicking the acceptance box for this grant agreement, I acknowledge receipt of the Stock Option Award Agreement to which this Agreement is attached as Exhibit A, and I agree to the terms and conditions expressed in this Agreement. 
    
  EXHIBIT B 
  ADDENDUM TO THE      WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN      STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 
  In addition to the terms of the Plan and the Agreement, the Option is subject to the following additional terms and conditions to the extent you reside and/or are employed in one of the countries addressed herein.  Pursuant to Section 23 of the Agreement, if you transfer your residence and/or employment to another country reflected in this Addendum, the additional terms and conditions for such country (if any) will apply to you to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Option and the Plan (or the Company may establish alternative terms as may be necessary or advisable to accommodate your transfer).  All defined terms contained in this Addendum shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Plan and the Agreement.   
  CHILE 
    
    Private Placement  .  The following provision shall replace Section 14 of the Agreement: 
    
  The grant of the Option hereunder is not intended to be a public offering of securities in Chile but instead is intended to be a private placement. 
           a) 
    The starting date of the offer will be the Grant Date, and this offer conforms to general ruling no. 336 of the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance; 
              b) 
    The offer deals with securities not registered in the registry of securities or in the registry of foreign securities of the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance, and therefore such securities are not subject to its oversight;  
              c) 
    The issuer is not obligated to provide public information in Chile regarding the foreign securities, since such securities are not registered with the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance; and  
              d) 
    The foreign securities shall not be subject to public offering as long as they are not registered with the corresponding registry of securities in Chile. 
              a) 
    La fecha de inicio de la oferta ser  el de la fecha de otorgamiento y esta oferta se acoge a la norma de car cter general n  336 de la superintendencia de valores y seguros chilena;  
              b) 
    La oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el registro de valores o en el registro de valores extranjeros que lleva la superintendencia de valores y seguros chilena, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta;  
              c) 
    Por tratar de valores no inscritos no existe la obligaci n por parte del emisor de entregar en chile informaci n p blica respecto de esos valores; y 
              d) 
    Esos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica mientras no sean inscritos en el registro de valores correspondiente. 
     FRANCE 
    
  1.      Nature of Grant  .  The Option is not granted under the French specific regime provided by Articles L.225-177 and seq. of the French commercial code. 
    
  2.      Use of English Language  .  You acknowledge that it is your express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.    Vous reconnaissez avoir express ment exig  la r daction en anglais de la pr sente Convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relatifs  , ou suite  , la pr sente Convention. 
    
  HONG KONG 
    
  1.  Sale of Shares of Stock  .  Shares of Stock purchased upon exercise of the Option are accepted as a personal investment.  In the event that shares of Stock are issued in respect of the Option within six (6) months after the Grant Date, you agree that the shares of Stock may not be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date. 
    
  2.  IMPORTANT NOTICE  .  WARNING: The contents of the Agreement the Addendum, the Plan, the Plan prospectus, the Plan administrative rules and all other materials pertaining to the Option and/or the Plan have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are hereby advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer thereunder.  If you have any doubts about any of the contents of the aforesaid materials, you should obtain independent professional advice. 
    
  3.  Wages  .  The Option and shares of Stock subject to the Option do not form part of your wages for the purposes of calculating any statutory or contractual payments under Hong Kong law. 
    
  ITALY 
    
  1.      Mandatory Same Day, Sell-All Exercise  .  Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement or the Plan to the contrary, as permitted under Section 9 of the Agreement and unless and until the Committee determines otherwise, the method of exercise of the Option shall be limited to mandatory same day, sell-all exercise. 
    
  2.      Plan Document Acknowledgment  .  In accepting the Option, you acknowledge that a copy of the Plan was made available to you, and you have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and the Addendum.   
    
  You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically approve the following provisions in the Agreement: Section 2: Vesting/Exercise/Expiration (expiration of the right to exercise the Option after the Expiration Date); Section 3: Disability (term for exercising the Option prior to the Vesting Dates in the case of a Termination of Service due to Disability); Section 4: Death (term for exercising the option prior to the Vesting Dates in the case of a Termination of Service due to death); Section 5: Retirement (term for exercising the Option prior to the Vesting Dates in the case of a Termination of Service by reason of Retirement); Section 6: Termination of Service Following a Change in Control (term for exercising the Option in the event of a Termination of Service following a Change in Control); Section 7: Other Termination of Service (term to exercise the vested Option and forfeiture of the unvested Option in other cases of Termination of Service); Section 8: Forfeiture of Outstanding Options Upon Termination for Cause or Following Termination of Service; Section 10(a): Responsibility for Taxes; Tax Withholding (liability for all Tax-Related Items related to the Option and legally applicable to the participant); Section 11: Limited Transferability (Option shall not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated); Section 18: Change in Stock (right of the Company to equitably adjust the Option and the Exercise Price in the event of any change in the Stock); Section 19(j): Nature of the Option (waive any claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arising from forfeiture of the Option resulting from a Termination of Service); Section 19(l):  Nature of the Option (the Company is not liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation impacting the value of the Option); Section 22: Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality (the receipt of the Option is conditioned upon agreement of the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A); Section 23: Addendum to Agreement (the Option is subject to the terms of the Addendum); Section 24: Additional Requirements (Company right to impose additional requirements on the Option in case such requirements are necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate operation and administration of the Option and the Plan); Section 26: Electronic Delivery (Company may deliver documents related to the Option or Plan electronically); Section 27: Governing Law and Jurisdiction (Agreement is governed by Illinois law without regard to any choice of law rules thereof; agreement to exclusive jurisdiction of Illinois courts); Section 28: English Language (documents will be drawn up in English; if a translation is provided, the English version controls).  
    
  MEXICO 
    
  1.  Commercial Relationship  .  You expressly recognize that your participation in the Plan and the Company's grant of the Option does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company.  You have been granted the Option as a consequence of the commercial relationship between the Company and the Affiliate in Mexico that employs you ("WBA Mexico"), and WBA Mexico is your sole employer.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that (a) the Plan and the benefits you may derive from your participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and WBA Mexico, (b) the Plan and the benefits you may derive from your participation in the Plan are not part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by WBA Mexico, and (c) any modifications or amendments of the Plan by the Company, or a termination of the Plan by the Company, shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment with WBA Mexico. 
    
  2.  Extraordinary Item of Compensation  .  You expressly recognize and acknowledge that your participation in the Plan is a result of the discretionary and unilateral decision of the Company, as well as your free and voluntary decision to participate in the Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.  As such, you acknowledge and agree that the Company, in its sole discretion, may amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time and without any liability.  The Option, the shares of Stock subject to the Option and the value of same is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment contract, if any, and is not part of your regular or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or any similar payments, which are the exclusive obligations of WBA Mexico. 
    
  MONACO 
    
    Use of English Language  .  You acknowledge that it is your express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.    Vous reconnaissez avoir express ment exig  la r daction en anglais de la pr sente Convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relatifs  , ou suite  , la pr sente Convention. 
    
  NETHERLANDS 
    
    Exclusion of Claim  .  You acknowledge and agree that you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from your ceasing to have rights under or to be entitled to the Option, whether or not as a result of your Termination of Service (whether such termination is in breach of contract or otherwise), or from the loss or diminution in value of the Option.  Upon the grant of the Option, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement. 
    
  ROMANIA 
    
    Voluntary Termination of Service  .  For the sake of clarity, a voluntary Termination of Service shall include the situation where your employment contract is terminated by operation of law on the date you reach the standard retirement age and have completed the minimum contribution record for receipt of state retirement pension or the relevant authorities award you an early-retirement pension of any type. 
    
  RUSSIA 
    
  1.  No Offering of Securities in Russia  .  The grant of the Option is not intended to be an offering of securities within the territory of the Russian Federation, and you acknowledge and agree that you will be unable to make any subsequent sale of the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Option in the Russian Federation. 
    
  2.  Repatriation Requirements  .  You agree to promptly repatriate proceeds resulting from the sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan to a foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia if legally required at the time shares of Stock are sold and to comply with all applicable local foreign exchange rules and regulations. Neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates shall be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  
    
  SPAIN 
    
  1.  Acknowledgement of Discretionary Nature of the Plan; No Vested Rights  . This provision supplements the terms of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting the Option, you acknowledge that you consent to participation in the Plan and have received a copy of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion granted an Option under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis.  Consequently, you understand that the Option is granted on the assumption and condition that the Option and the shares of Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that this grant would not be made to you but for the assumptions and conditions referenced above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, the Option shall be null and void. 
    
  Further, you understand and agree that the vesting of the Option is expressly conditioned on your continued and active rendering of service, such that upon a Termination of Service, the Option may cease vesting immediately, in whole or in part, effective on the date of your Termination of Service (unless otherwise specifically provided in Section 3, 4, 5 or 6 of the Agreement). This will be the case, for example, even if (a) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause; (b) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective dismissal; (c) you terminate service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition, (d) you terminate service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Company or an Affiliate.  Consequently, upon a Termination of Service for any of the above reasons, you may automatically lose any rights to the Option that were not vested on the date of your Termination of Service, as described in the Plan and Agreement.  In addition, you understand and agree that the post-Termination of Service exercise period specified in the Agreement shall run from the date of your Termination of Service, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. 
    
  You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in the Agreement regarding the impact of a Termination of Service on the Option. 
    
  2.  Termination for Cause  .  "Cause" shall be defined as indicated in Section 8 of the Agreement, irrespective of whether the termination is or is not considered a fair termination (i.e., "despido procedente") under Spanish legislation. 
    
  3.  No Public Offering  .  No "offer of securities to the public," within the meaning of Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory in connection with the Option.  The Plan, the Agreement (including this Addendum) and any other documents evidencing the grant of the Option have not, nor will they be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores   (the Spanish securities regulator) and none of those documents constitute a public offering prospectus.  
    
  SWITZERLAND 
    
  Securities Law Notification  .  The Option is not considered a public offering in Switzerland; therefore, it is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Option constitute a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Option may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other offering or marketing materials relating to the Option have been or will be filed with, or approved or supervised by, any Swiss regulatory authority (in particular, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA)).  
    
  TURKEY 
    
    Securities Law Notification  .  The sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan is not permitted within Turkey.  The sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan must occur outside of Turkey.  The shares of Stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol "WBA" and shares of Stock may be sold on this exchange.  
    
  UNITED KINGDOM 
    
    1.        Indemnification for Tax-Related Items  . Without limitation to Section 10 of the Agreement, you hereby agree that you are liable for all Tax-Related Items and hereby covenant to pay all such Tax-Related Items, as and when requested by the Company, your Employer or by Her Majesty's Revenue   Customs ("HMRC") (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority).  You also hereby agree to indemnify and keep indemnified the Company and your Employer against any Tax-Related Items that they are required to pay or withhold or have paid or will pay on your behalf to HMRC (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority).  
    
  2.      Exclusion of Claim  .  You acknowledge and agree that you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from your ceasing to have rights under or to be entitled to the Option, whether or not as a result of your Termination of Service (whether such termination is in breach of contract or otherwise), or from the loss or diminution in value of the Option.  Upon the grant of the Option, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement. 
    
  ***                    ***                    ***                    ***                    *** 
  By clicking the acceptance box for this grant agreement, I acknowledge receipt of the Stock Option Award Agreement to which this Addendum is attached as Exhibit B, and I agree to the terms and conditions expressed in this Addendum. 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.24>
 4
 exhibit1024.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.24

Exhibit 

(OGEUKISO18) 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 
    
  2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN 
  UK SUB-PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 

These materials, which may include descriptions of company stock plans, prospectuses and other information and documents, and the information they contain, are provided by your company, not by Fidelity, and are not an offer or solicitation by Fidelity for the purchase of any securities or financial instruments.  These materials were prepared by your company, which is solely responsible for their contents and for compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.  Fidelity is not connected with any offering or acting as an underwriter in connection with any offering of your company's securities or financial instruments.  Fidelity does not review, approve or endorse the contents of these materials and is not responsible for their content. 

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 
  2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  UK SUB-PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Participant Name:   
  Participant ID:   
  Grant Date:            (the "Grant Date") 
  Grant Price:   
  No. of Shares under Option Granted:              (the "Shares Granted") 
  Vesting:  One third of the Shares Granted vest on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date (the "Vesting Dates")  
  Expiration Date:                 (the "Expiration Date") 
  Acceptance Date:   
  Electronic Signature:   
  This document (referred to below as this "Agreement") spells out the terms and conditions of the stock option (the "Option") granted to you by Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to the UK Sub-Plan of the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "UK Sub-Plan") on and as of the Grant Date designated above.  Except as otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the respective meanings set forth in the UK Sub-Plan (which incorporates and modifies the terms of the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "US Plan" and, together with the UK Sub-Plan, the "Plan").  For purposes of this Agreement, "Employer" means the entity (the Company or the Affiliate) that employs you on the applicable date.  The Plan, as in effect on the date of this Agreement and as it may be amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. 
  The terms of the Option, including any restrictions on the Shares underlying the Option, the times at which the Option may be exercised (in whole or in part), the circumstances under which the Option will lapse or be cancelled (in whole or in part), any conditions to which the exercise of the Option is subject (in whole or in part) and any mechanism for varying the terms of the Option, are set out in this Agreement and the rules of the Plan.  The restrictions on the Shares underlying the Option include but are not limited to Section 20 (Recoupment) of this Agreement. The rules of the UK Sub-Plan, the rules of the US Plan and applicable Company policies can be accessed at MyHR or from your HR representative. 
  You and the Company agree as follows: 
  1.  Grant of Option  .  Pursuant to the approval and direction of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"), the Company hereby grants you an Option to purchase all or any part of the number of Shares Granted set forth above of common stock of the Company, par value US$.01 ("Stock"), at the per-share exercise price, which is 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Grant Date (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.  The Option shall not be treated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. 
  2.        Vesting/Exercise/Expiration  .  You may not exercise the Option prior to the Vesting Date or Dates set forth above absent action by the Committee to waive or alter such restrictions as may be permitted by the Plan or as may be permitted under the below paragraphs.  Thereafter, except as hereinafter provided, you may exercise the Option, to the extent it is vested, at any time and from time to time until the close of business on the Expiration Date set forth above.  The Option may be exercised to purchase any number of whole shares of Stock, except that no purchase shall be for less than ten (10) full shares of Stock, or the remaining unexercised shares, if less.  The Option is deemed to be "outstanding" until it has been exercised in full or expired pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. 
  3.        Disability  .  If, without having fully exercised the Option, you have a Termination of Service due to disability or injury (as evidenced to the satisfaction of the Committee or its delegate), then any Shares Granted under the Option that are not yet vested at that time shall thereupon become vested and (a) you may exercise the Option for the full number of Shares Granted (less any shares for which the Option was previously exercised), but (b) your right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is one (1) year following the date of your Termination of Service.  
  4.        Death  .  If you die without having fully exercised the Option, then any Shares Granted under the Option that are not yet vested (but which have not lapsed or been forfeited) at that time shall thereupon become fully vested and (a) the Option may be exercised, subject to the UK Sub-Plan, by your personal representative(s) for the full number of Shares Granted (less any shares for which the Option was previously exercised), but (b), such person's right to exercise the Option shall terminate not later than one (1) year after the date of your death.   
  5.        Retirement  .  If without having fully exercised the Option you have a Termination of Service by reason of retirement, then (a) the number of Shares Granted for which you may exercise the Option shall be determined by treating each Vesting Date specified in the introduction to this Agreement as occurring one year prior to that Vesting Date, but (b) your right to exercise any portion of the Option that is vested upon your retirement shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is one (1) year after the date of your retirement.  Shares Granted for which you cannot exercise the Option under this Section 5 shall be forfeited.  
  6.        Termination of Service Following a Change in Control  .  If there is a Change in Control of the Company and within the one-year period thereafter you have a Termination of Service initiated by your Employer other than for Cause (as defined in Section 8), then any Shares Granted under the Option that are not yet vested at that time shall thereupon become vested and (a) you may exercise the Option for the full number of Shares Granted (less any shares for which the Option was previously exercised), but (b) your right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is ninety (90) days after the date of your Termination of Service.  Shares Granted for which you cannot exercise the Option under this Section 6 shall be forfeited.  The foregoing is also subject to the Committee's exercise of its discretion under Section 9.01 of the Plan. For purposes of this Section 6, a Termination of Service initiated by your Employer shall include (without limitation) a Termination of Employment for Good Reason under - and pursuant to the terms and conditions of   the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan, but only to the extent applicable to you as an eligible participant in such Plan, and (without limitation) any Termination of Service other than for Cause which is initiated by your Employer and which falls within any of the circumstances listed in section 524(2B) of the UK Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003. 
  7.        Other Termination of Service  .  If without having fully exercised the Option you have a voluntary or involuntary Termination of Service for any reason other than as set forth in Section 3, 4, 5 or 6 above, as determined by the Committee (including, without limitation, by reason of redundancy (within the meaning of the Employment Rights Act 1996 or the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996), a relevant transfer within the meaning of the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 or the company with which you hold office or employment ceasing to be controlled by the Company), then (a) for any Shares Granted with respect to which such Termination of Service is prior to the applicable Vesting Date, the Option shall be forfeited, and (b) for any Shares Granted with respect to which such Termination of Service is on or after the applicable Vesting Date, then your right to exercise the Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date or a date which is ninety (90) days after the date of your Termination of Service. 
  8.        Forfeiture of Outstanding Options Upon Termination for Cause or Following Termination of Service  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, your remaining right, if any, to exercise the Option shall immediately terminate if you are terminated for Cause or if and when you violate any post-employment obligation that you may have to the Company, including but not limited to any non-competition, non-solicitation, confidentiality, non-disparagement or other restrictive covenant.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means any one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion: 
  (a)        your commission of a felony or any crime of moral turpitude;  
  (b)        your dishonesty or material violation of standards of integrity in the course of fulfilling your employment duties to the Company or any Affiliate; 
  (c)        your material violation of a material written policy of the Company or any Affiliate violation of which is grounds for immediate termination;  
  (d)        your willful and deliberate failure to perform your employment duties to the Company or any Affiliate in any material respect, after reasonable notice of such failure and an opportunity to correct it; or  
  (e)        your failure to comply in any material respect with the United States ("U.S.") Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act, or any rules or regulations thereunder. 
  9.        Exercise Process  .  The Option may be exercised by giving notice to Fidelity, the third party administrator to administer the Option exercise process.  The exercise notice (a) shall be signed by you or (in the event of your death) your personal representative(s), (b) shall specify the number of full shares of Stock then elected to be purchased, and (c) shall be accompanied by payment in full of the Exercise Price of the shares of Stock to be purchased.  Payment may be made in cash or by check payable to the order of the Company, and such payment shall include any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Option that are required to be withheld ("Tax-Related Items"), as set forth in Section 10 below.  Alternatively, the Committee may allow for a "same day sale" transaction pursuant to which a third party (engaged by you or the Company) loans funds to you to enable you to purchase the shares of Stock and pay any Tax-Related Items, and then sells a sufficient number of the exercised shares of Stock on your behalf to enable you to repay the loan and any fees.  The remaining shares of Stock are then delivered by the third party to you. 
  As promptly as practicable after receipt of such notice of exercise and payment (including payment with respect to any Tax-Related Items), subject to Section 13 below, the Company shall in accordance with the UK Sub-Plan cause to be issued and delivered to you (or in the event of your death to your personal representative(s), as the case may be), certificates for the shares of Stock so purchased.  Alternatively, such shares of Stock may be issued and held in book entry form. 
  10.        Responsibility for Taxes; Tax Withholding  .   
  (a)    You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or your Employer, the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or your Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or your Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, if your notice to exercise your Option is not accompanied by a sufficient amount to cover the Tax-Related Items arising on exercise and you do not otherwise provide the Company or your Employer with a sufficient amount to cover the Tax-Related Items before they arise, you authorize the Company, your Employer or its agent to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (i) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer; or (ii) withholding from proceeds of the sale of sufficient shares of Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent). For purposes of the foregoing, no fractional shares of Stock will be issued pursuant to the grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock hereunder. 
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable statutory withholding rates (as determined by the Company in good faith and in its sole discretion) or other applicable withholding rates. 

You agree to pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares of Stock or the proceeds from the sale of shares of Stock if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
  (c)    Without limitation to paragraph (a) and (b) above, you hereby agree that you are liable for all Tax-Related Items and hereby covenant to pay all such Tax-Related Items, as and when requested by the Company or, if different, your Employer or by Her Majesty's Revenue   Customs ("HMRC") (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority).  You also hereby agree to indemnify and keep indemnified the Company and, if different, your Employer against any Tax-Related Items that they are required to pay or withhold or have paid or will pay on your behalf to HMRC (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority). 
    
  11.        Limited Transferability  .  You may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate, dispose of, encumber or hypothecate the Option, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.  During your lifetime, the Option and all rights granted hereunder shall be exercisable only by you.  After your death, the Option may only be exercised by your personal representative(s) in accordance with Section 4 of the Agreement. 
  12.        Rights as Stockholder  .  You shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares of Stock subject to the Option until such time as the Exercise Price has been paid and a certificate of stock for such shares has been issued to you or such shares of Stock have been recorded in your name in book entry form.  Except as provided in Section 18 below, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or distributions or other rights with respect to such shares of Stock for which the record date is prior to the date on which you become the holder of record thereof.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if a law or any regulation of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or of any other regulatory body having jurisdiction shall require the Company or you to take any action before shares of Stock can be delivered to you hereunder, then the date of delivery of such shares may be delayed accordingly. 
  13.        Securities Laws  .  If a Registration Statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is not in effect with respect to the shares of Stock to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement, you hereby represent that you are acquiring the shares of Stock for investment and with no present intention of selling or transferring them and that you will not sell or otherwise transfer the shares of Stock except in compliance with all applicable securities laws and requirements of any stock exchange on which the shares of Stock may then be listed. 
  14.        Not a Public Offering  .  If you are resident outside the U.S., the grant of the Option is not intended to be a public offering of securities in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different).  The Company has not submitted any registration statement, prospectus or other filings with the local securities authorities (unless otherwise required under local law), and the grant of the Option is not subject to the supervision of the local securities authorities. 
  15.        Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws  .  Your country of residence may have insider trading and/or market abuse laws that may affect your ability to acquire or sell shares of Stock under the Plan during such times you are considered to have "inside information" (as defined by the laws in your country).  These laws may be the same or different from any Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be informed of and compliant with such regulations, and you are advised to speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
  16.        Repatriation; Compliance with Law; Method of Exercise  .  If you are resident or employed outside the U.S., as a condition of the Option, you agree to repatriate all payments attributable to the shares of Stock acquired under the Plan in accordance with applicable foreign exchange rules and regulations in your country of residence (and country of employment, if different).  In addition, you agree to take any and all actions, and consent to any and all actions taken by the Company and its Affiliates, as may be required to allow the Company and its Affiliates to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations in your country of residence (and country of employment, if different).  Finally, you agree to take any and all actions as may be required to comply with your personal obligations under local laws, rules and/or regulations in your country of residence and country of employment, if different). 
  17.        No Advice Regarding Grant  .  No employee of the Company is permitted to advise you regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the shares of Stock underlying the Option.  Investment in shares of Stock involves a degree of risk.  Before deciding to purchase shares of Stock pursuant to the Option, you should carefully consider all risk factors relevant to the acquisition of shares of Stock under the Plan and you should carefully review all of the materials related to the Option and the Plan. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors before taking any action related to the Plan. 
  18.        Change in Stock  .  The Option may be adjusted by the Committee in accordance with Rule 4.2 of the UK Sub-Plan. 
  19.        Nature of the Option  .  In accepting the Option, you acknowledge, understand and agree that: 
  (a)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and limited in duration, and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company, in its sole discretion, at any time; 
  (b)    the grant of the Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of stock options, or benefits in lieu of stock options, even if stock options have been granted in the past; 
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future grants of stock options or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company, including, but not limited to, the form and timing of any grant, the number of shares of Stock subject to the stock options, vesting provisions, and the exercise price applicable to the stock option; 
  (d)     the Option and your participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or service contract with the Company or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, your Employer or an Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate your employment or service relationship; 
  (e)    you are voluntarily participating in the Plan; 
  (f)    the Option and the shares of Stock subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
  (g)    the Option, the shares of Stock subject to the Option and the value of same, is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment (and employment contract, if any) and is not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, without limitation, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments; 
  (h)    the future value of the shares of Stock underlying the Option is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty; 
  (i)    unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, a Termination of Service shall be effective from the date on which active employment or service ends and shall not be extended by any statutory or common law notice of termination period; 
  (j)    no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Option resulting from a Termination of Service (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the Option to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, your Employer or any Affiliate, waive your ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and release the Company, the Employer and all Affiliates from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
  (k)    you do not have any entitlement to have the Option cashed out and, unless otherwise provided herein, in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion in accordance with the Plan, the Option and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Option or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of Stock of the Company; and 
  (l)    neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the U.S. dollar that may affect the value of the Option or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Option or the subsequent sale of any shares of Stock acquired upon settlement of the Option.  
  20.        Committee Authority; Recoupment  .  It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, including the enforcement of any recoupment policy which applies in respect of the Option and any shares you acquire pursuant to the Option, all of which shall be binding upon you and any claimant.  Any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Plan shall be resolved in favor of the Plan.  If there is any conflict between the terms of the UK Sub-Plan and the US Plan, the terms of the UK Sub-Plan shall take precedence.  
  The Option and any shares of Stock you acquire pursuant to the Option shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any recoupment policy adopted by the Company in effect at the time of grant of the Option as amended from time to time as required by law or any regulatory body, or any other recoupment policy adopted by the Company from time to time as may be required by law or any regulatory body.   
    
  21.        Collection/Processing/Transfer of Personal Data  .  Pursuant to applicable personal data protection laws, the Company hereby notifies you of the following in relation to your personal data and the collection, processing and transfer of such data in relation to the Company's grant of the Option and your participation in the Plan.  The collection, processing and transfer of personal data is necessary for the Company's administration of the Plan and your participation in the Plan, and your denial and/or objection to the collection, processing and transfer of personal data may affect your participation in the Plan.  As such: 
  (a)    The Company and your Employer hold certain personal information about you, including (but not limited to) your name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social security, passport or other employee identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all entitlements to shares of Stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data").  Data may be provided by you or collected, where lawful, from the Company, its Affiliates and/or third parties, and the Company and your Employer will process Data for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  Data processing will take place through electronic and non-electronic means according to logics and procedures strictly correlated to the purposes for which Data are collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations in your country of residence (or country of employment, if different).  Data processing operations will be performed minimizing the use of personal and identification data when such operations are unnecessary for the processing purposes sought.  Data will be accessible within the organization only by those persons requiring access for purposes of the implementation, administration and operation of the Plan and for the participation in the Plan. 
  (b)    The Company and your Employer will transfer Data internally as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and the Company and/or your Employer may further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  These recipients may be located in the European Economic Area, or elsewhere throughout the world, such as the United States.   
  (c)    You may, at any time, exercise your rights provided under applicable personal data protection laws, which may include the right to (i) obtain confirmation as to the existence of Data, (ii) verify the content, origin and accuracy of  Data, (iii) request the integration, update, amendment, deletion or blockage (for breach of applicable laws) of Data, and (iv) oppose, for legal reasons, the collection, processing or transfer of Data which is not necessary or required for the implementation, administration and/or operation of the Plan and your participation in the Plan.  You may seek to exercise these rights by contacting your Human Resources manager or the Company's Human Resources Department, who may direct the matter to the applicable Company privacy official. 
  22.        Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality  .  As a condition to the receipt of the Option, you must agree to the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A by executing that Agreement.  Failure to execute and return the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement within 120 days of the Grant Date shall constitute your decision to decline to accept this Award.   
  23.        Addendum to Agreement  .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country of residence (and country of employment, if different) as set forth in the addendum to this Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Addendum").  Further, if you transfer your residence and/or employment to another country reflected in the Addendum, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Option and the Plan (or the Company may establish alternative terms and conditions as may be necessary or advisable to accommodate your transfer).  The Addendum shall constitute part of this Agreement. 
  24.        Amendment or Modification, Waiver  .  Except as set forth in the Plan, no provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived. No waiver of any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar condition or provision at the same time, any prior time or any subsequent time. 
  25.        Electronic Delivery  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, deliver by electronic means any documents related to the Option or your future participation in the Plan.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  26.        Governing Law and Jurisdiction  .  This Agreement is governed by the substantive and procedural laws of the state of Illinois.  You and the Company shall submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts in Illinois in any dispute relating to this Agreement without regard to any choice or law rules thereof which might apply the laws of any other jurisdiction.    
  27.        English Language  .  If you are resident in a country where English is not an official language, you acknowledge and agree that it is your express intent that this Agreement, the Plan and all other documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant to the Option, be drawn up in English.  If you have received this Agreement, the Plan or any other documents related to the Option translated into a language other than English, and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
  28.        Conformity with Applicable Law  .  If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement shall be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. 
  29.        Successors  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company and any person or persons who shall, upon your death, acquire any rights hereunder. 
  **** 
  This Agreement contains highly sensitive and confidential information.  Please handle it accordingly.   
  Please read the attached Exhibits A and B. Once you have read and understood this Agreement and Exhibits A and B, please click the acceptance box to certify and confirm your agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and Exhibits A and B, and to acknowledge your receipt of the Prospectus, the Plan and this Agreement and your acceptance of the terms and conditions of the Option granted hereunder. 
    
  EXHIBIT A 
  WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION AND CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT 
  This Exhibit forms a part of the Stock Option  Award Agreement covering Options awarded to an employee of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., on behalf of itself, its affiliates, subsidiaries, and successors (collectively referred to as "Employee" and the "Company"). 
  WHEREAS, the Company develops and/or uses valuable business, technical, proprietary, customer and patient information it protects by limiting its disclosure and by keeping it secret or confidential; 
  WHEREAS, Employee acknowledges that during the course of employment, he or she has or will receive, contribute, or develop such confidential information; and 
  WHEREAS, the Company desires to protect from its competitors such confidential information and also desires to protect its legitimate business interests and goodwill in maintaining its employee and customer relationships. 
  NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the Stock Option issued to Employee pursuant the Agreement to which this is attached as Exhibit A, Employee agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement: 
  1.  Confidentiality  .      At all times during and after the termination of my employment with the Company, I will not, without the Company's prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Trade Secrets or other Confidential Information of the Company or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain Trade Secrets or otherwise confidential, as further defined below. 
           a. 
     "Trade Secrets" are a form of intellectual property and may include all tangible and intangible forms and types of financial, business, scientific, technical, economic, or engineering information, including patterns, plans, compilations, program devices, formulas, designs, prototypes, methods, techniques, processes, procedures, programs or codes, and may in particular include such things as pricing information, business records, software programs, algorithms, inventions, patent applications, and designs and processes not known outside the Company.  Trade Secrets may be stored, compiled, memorialized or contained in various forms or media, such as paper, electronic media or transmission (such as disc, email, file transfers, tape, or web site features), all other forms of audio and/or video transfer, or even oral communications. 
              b. 
    "Confidential Information" shall include Trade Secrets and, more broadly, any information or material which is not generally known to the public, and which (i) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business of the Company or the Company's actual or prospective vendors or clients; or (ii) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any client of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company's express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.   Confidential Information may take a variety of forms including but not limited to paper, electronic, media or transmission (such as email, file transfers, tape or web site features), and all other forms of audio and/or video transfer. Examples of confidential information include, but are not limited to, customer, referral source, supplier and contractor identification and contacts, confidential information about customers, business relationships, contract terms, pricing and margins, business, marketing and customer plans and strategies, financial data, techniques, formulations, technical know-how, formulae, research, development and production information, processes, designs, architectures, prototypes, models, software,  patent applications and plans, projections, proposals, discussion guides, personal or performance information about employees, or legal advice related to the foregoing.  
     The restrictions set forth in this paragraph are in addition to and not in lieu of any obligations I have by law with respect to the Company's Confidential Information, including any obligations I may owe under the federal Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016 (the "TSA") and any applicable state statutes.  Further, nothing herein shall prohibit me from divulging evidence of criminal wrongdoing to law enforcement or prohibit me from disclosing Confidential Information or Trade Secrets if compelled by order of court or an agency of competent jurisdiction or as required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity to seek a protective order. Pursuant to the TSA, I understand that     an individual may not be held criminally or civilly liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that: (A) is made (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney, and (ii) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. Additionally  ,   I understand that     an individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to his or her attorney and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, so long as any document containing the trade secret is filed under seal and the individual does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order.   Nothing in this Agreement is intended to conflict with the TSA or create liability for disclosures of Trade Secrets that are expressly allowed by TSA. 
  2.      Non-Competition  .      I agree that during my employment with the Company and for one year after the termination of my employment, I will not, directly or indirectly, invest in, own, operate, finance, control, or provide Competing Services to any Competing Business Line, in both cases as defined below.  I understand that the restrictions in this paragraph apply no matter whether my employment is terminated by me or the Company and no matter whether that termination is voluntary or involuntary.  The above restrictions shall not apply to passive investments of less than 5% ownership interest in any entity. I understand that the term "Competing Business Line" used in this Agreement means any business that is in competition with any business engaged in by the Company with respect to which I provide substantial services during the last two years of my employment with the Company. 
  I understand that I will be deemed to be providing "Competing Services" if the nature of such services are sufficiently similar in position, scope and geographic area to any position held by me during the last two years of my employment with the Company. 
  3.      Non-Solicitation  .      I agree that during my employment with the Company and for two years after the termination of my employment from the Company for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary: 
           (a)  
    I will not directly or indirectly, solicit any Restricted Customer for purposes of providing Competing Products or Services, or offer, provide or sell Competing Products or Services to any Restricted Customer.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Competing Products or Services" means products or services that are competitive with products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any Restricted Customer, and "Restricted Customer" means any person, company or entity which was a customer, potential customer, vendor, supplier or referral source of the Company and with which I had direct contact or about which I learned confidential information at any time during the last two years of my employment with the Company; and 
              (b) 
    I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, or attempt to persuade any employee of the Company with whom I currently work or with whom I worked at any point during the last two years preceding the termination of my employment with the Company,  and who possesses or had access to confidential information of the Company, to leave the employ of the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such employee of his/her duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such employee for the purposes described in items (i) and (ii) in this paragraph. 
     4.      Non-Inducement  .  I will not directly or indirectly assist or encourage any person or entity in carrying out or conducting any activity that would be prohibited by this Agreement if such activity were carried out or conducted by me. 
  5.      Non-Disparagement  .      I agree (whether or not I am then an Employee) not to make negative comments or otherwise disparage the Company, its Affiliates, or any of their officers, directors, employees, shareholders, members, agents or products other than in the good faith performance of my duties to the Company and its Affiliates while I am employed by the Company and its Affiliates and thereafter.  The foregoing shall not be violated by truthful statements in response to legal process, required governmental testimony or filings, or administrative or arbitral proceedings (including, without limitation, depositions in connection with such proceedings). 
  6.      Intellectual Property.    The term "Intellectual Property" shall mean all trade secrets, ideas, inventions, designs, developments, devices, software, computer programs, methods and processes (whether or not patented or patentable, reduced to practice or included in the Confidential Information) and all patents and patent applications related thereto, all copyrights, copyrightable works and mask works (whether or not included in the Confidential Information) and all registrations and  applications for registration related thereto, all Confidential Information, and all other proprietary rights contributed to, or conceived or created by, or reduced to practice by Employee or anyone acting on his/her behalf (whether alone or jointly with others) at any time from the beginning of Employee's employment with Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. to the termination of that employment plus ninety (90) days, that (i) relate to the business or to the actual or anticipated research or development of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.; (ii) result from any services that Employee or anyone acting on its behalf perform for Walgreens; or (iii) are created using the equipment, supplies or facilities of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. or any Confidential Information.  
           a. 
    Ownership  .  All Intellectual Property is, shall be and shall remain the exclusive property of the Company.  Employee hereby assigns to the Company all right, title and interest, if any, in and to the Intellectual Property; provided, however, that, when applicable, the Company shall own the copyrights in all copyrightable works included in the Intellectual Property pursuant to the "work-made-for-hire" doctrine (rather than by assignment), as such term is defined in the 1976 Copyright Act.  All Intellectual Property shall be owned by the Company irrespective of any copyright notices or confidentiality legends to the contrary which may be placed on such works by Employee or by others.  Employee shall ensure that all copyright notices and confidentiality legends on all work product authored by Employee or anyone acting on his/her behalf shall conform to the Company's practices and shall specify the Company as the owner of the work.  The Company hereby provides notice to Employee that the obligation to assign does not apply to an invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility, or trade secret information of the Company was used and which was developed entirely on the Employee's own time, unless (a) the invention relates (i) to the business of the Company, or (ii) to the Company's actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (b) the invention results from any work performed by Employee for the Company. 
              b. 
    Keep Records  .  Employee shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained by anyone acting on his/her behalf, adequate and current written records of all Intellectual Property in the form of notes, sketches, drawings, computer files, reports or other documents relating thereto.  Such records shall be and shall remain the exclusive property of the Company and shall be available to the Company at all times during the term of this Agreement. 
              c. 
    Assistance  . Employee shall supply all assistance requested in securing for Company's benefit any patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, license, right or other evidence of ownership of any such Intellectual Property, and will provide full information regarding any such item and execute all appropriate documentation prepared by Company in applying or otherwise registering, in Company's name, all rights to any such item or the defense and protection of such Intellectual Property. 
              d. 
    Prior Inventions  .  Employee has disclosed to the Company any continuing obligations to any third party with respect to Intellectual Property.  Employee claims no rights to any inventions created prior to his/her employment for which a patent application has not previously been filed, unless he/she has described them in detail on a schedule attached to this Agreement. 
              e. 
    Trade Secret Provisions  .  The provisions in Paragraph 1 with regard to Trade Secrets and the TSA shall apply as well in the context of the parties' Intellectual Property rights and obligations. 
     7.      Return of Company Property  .  I agree that I will not take any of the Company's property or information with me when I leave the Company's employ, no matter what form that property or information is in and no matter how I acquired it.  When my employment with the Company terminates, I will immediately return to the Company any and all Company information, documents, and electronics.  
  8.      Consideration and Acknowledgments  .  I acknowledge and agree that the covenants described in this Agreement are essential terms, and the underlying Stock Option Award would not be provided by the Company in the absence of these covenants.  I further acknowledge that these covenants are supported by adequate consideration as set forth in this Agreement and are not in conflict with any public interest.    I further acknowledge and agree that I fully understand these covenants, have had full and complete opportunity to discuss and resolve any ambiguities or uncertainties regarding these covenants before signing this Agreement, and have voluntarily agreed to comply with these covenants for their stated terms.  I further acknowledge and agree that these covenants are reasonable and enforceable in all respects. 
  9.      Enforceability; General Provisions  .   
           (a) 
    I agree that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are reasonable and necessary to protect the Company's legitimate business interests and that   full compliance with the terms of this Agreement will not prevent me from earning a livelihood following the termination of my employment, and that these covenants do not place undue restraint on me.   
              (b) 
    Because the Company's current base of operations is in Illinois and my connections thereto, (i) this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois, where this Agreement is entered into, without giving effect to any conflict of law provisions, and (ii) I consent to personal jurisdiction and the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of Illinois with respect to any claim, dispute or declaration arising out of this Agreement. 
              (c) 
    In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement, I acknowledge that the Company will face irreparable injury which may be difficult to calculate in dollar terms and that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to all remedies otherwise available in law or in equity, to temporary restraining orders and preliminary and final injunctions enjoining such breach or threatened breach in any court of competent jurisdiction without the necessity of posting a surety bond, as well as to obtain an equitable accounting of all profits or benefits arising out of any violation of this Agreement. 
              (d) 
    I agree that if a court determines that any of the provisions in this Agreement is unenforceable or unreasonable in duration, territory, or scope, then that court shall modify those provisions so they are reasonable and enforceable, and enforce those provisions as modified.   
              (e) 
    If any phrase or provision of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that phrase, clause or provision shall be deemed severed from this Agreement, and will not affect the enforceability of any other provisions of this Agreement, which shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.   
              (f) 
    Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Agreement, the non-competition provisions of Paragraph 2 above shall not restrict Employee from performing legal services as a licensed attorney for a Competing Business to the extent that the attorney licensure requirements in the applicable jurisdiction do not permit Employee to agree to the otherwise applicable restrictions of Paragraph 2. 
              (g) 
    Waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement by the Company in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any provision in any other instance and/or of the Company's other rights at law or under this Agreement. 
              (h) 
    I agree that the Company may assign this Agreement to its successors and assigns and that any such successor or assign may stand in the Company's shoes for purposes of enforcing this Agreement. 
              (i)  
    I agree to reimburse the Company for all attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses that it reasonably incurs in connection with enforcing its rights and remedies under this Agreement, but only to the extent the Company is ultimately the prevailing party in the applicable legal proceedings. 
              (j) 
    If I violate this Agreement, then the restrictions set out in Paragraphs 2 - 6 shall be extended by the same period of time as the period of time during which the violation(s) occurred. 
              (k) 
    I   fully understand my obligations in this Agreement, have had full and complete opportunity to discuss and resolve any ambiguities or uncertainties regarding these covenants before signing this Agreement, and have voluntarily agreed to comply with these covenants for their stated terms. 
     10.      Relationship of Parties  .  I acknowledge that my relationship with the Company is "terminable at will" by either party and that the Company or I can terminate the relationship with or without cause and without following any specific procedures.  Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to or shall be relied upon to alter the "terminable at will" relationship between the parties.  I agree that my obligations in this Agreement shall survive the termination of my employment from the Company for any reason and shall be binding upon my successors, heirs, executors and representatives. 
  11.      Modifications and Other Agreements  .  I agree that the terms of this Agreement may not be modified except by a written agreement signed by both me and the Company.  This Agreement shall not supersede any other restrictive covenants to which I may be subject under an employment contract, benefit program or otherwise, such that the Company may enforce the terms of any and all restrictive covenants to which I am subject.  The obligations herein are in addition to and do not limit any obligations arising under applicable statutes and common law. 
  12.      Notification  .  I agree that in the event I am offered employment at any time in the future with any entity that may be considered a Competing Business Line, I shall immediately notify such Competing business of the existence and terms of this Agreement.  I also understand and agree that the Company may notify anyone attempting to or later employing me of the existence and provisions of this Agreement. 
  ***                    ***                    ***                    ***                    *** 
  By clicking the acceptance box for this grant agreement, I acknowledge receipt of the Stock Option Award Agreement to which this Agreement is attached as Exhibit A, and I agree to the terms and conditions expressed in this Agreement. 
    
  EXHIBIT B 
  ADDENDUM TO THE      WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC. 2013 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN      STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 
  In addition to the terms of the Plan and the Agreement, the Option is subject to the following additional terms and conditions to the extent you reside and/or are employed in one of the countries addressed herein.  Pursuant to Section 23 of the Agreement, if you transfer your residence and/or employment to another country reflected in this Addendum, the additional terms and conditions for such country (if any) will apply to you to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws, rules and/or regulations or to facilitate the operation and administration of the Option and the Plan (or the Company may establish alternative terms as may be necessary or advisable to accommodate your transfer).  All defined terms contained in this Addendum shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Plan and the Agreement.   
  CHILE 
    
    Private Placement  .  The following provision shall replace Section 14 of the Agreement: 
    
  The grant of the Option hereunder is not intended to be a public offering of securities in Chile but instead is intended to be a private placement. 
           a) 
    The starting date of the offer will be the Grant Date, and this offer conforms to general ruling no. 336 of the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance; 
              b) 
    The offer deals with securities not registered in the registry of securities or in the registry of foreign securities of the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance, and therefore such securities are not subject to its oversight;  
              c) 
    The issuer is not obligated to provide public information in Chile regarding the foreign securities, since such securities are not registered with the Chilean superintendence of securities and insurance; and  
              d) 
    The foreign securities shall not be subject to public offering as long as they are not registered with the corresponding registry of securities in Chile. 
              a) 
    La fecha de inicio de la oferta ser  el de la fecha de otorgamiento y esta oferta se acoge a la norma de car cter general n  336 de la superintendencia de valores y seguros chilena;  
              b) 
    La oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el registro de valores o en el registro de valores extranjeros que lleva la superintendencia de valores y seguros chilena, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta;  
              c) 
    Por tratar de valores no inscritos no existe la obligaci n por parte del emisor de entregar en chile informaci n p blica respecto de esos valores; y 
              d) 
    Esos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica mientras no sean inscritos en el registro de valores correspondiente. 
     FRANCE 
    
  1.      Nature of Grant  .  The Option is not granted under the French specific regime provided by Articles L.225-177 and seq. of the French commercial code. 
    
  2.      Use of English Language  .  You acknowledge that it is your express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.    Vous reconnaissez avoir express ment exig  la r daction en anglais de la pr sente Convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relatifs  , ou suite  , la pr sente Convention. 
    
  HONG KONG 
    
  1.  Sale of Shares of Stock  .  Shares of Stock purchased upon exercise of the Option are accepted as a personal investment.  In the event that shares of Stock are issued in respect of the Option within six (6) months after the Grant Date, you agree that the shares of Stock may not be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date. 
    
  2.  IMPORTANT NOTICE  .  WARNING: The contents of the Agreement the Addendum, the Plan, the Plan prospectus, the Plan administrative rules and all other materials pertaining to the Option and/or the Plan have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are hereby advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer thereunder.  If you have any doubts about any of the contents of the aforesaid materials, you should obtain independent professional advice. 
    
  3.  Wages  .  The Option and shares of Stock subject to the Option do not form part of your wages for the purposes of calculating any statutory or contractual payments under Hong Kong law. 
    
  ITALY 
    
  1.      Mandatory Same Day, Sell-All Exercise  .  Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement or the Plan to the contrary, as permitted under Section 9 of the Agreement, the Company reserves the right to limit the method of exercise of the Option to a mandatory same day, sell-all exercise, if determined to be necessary or advisable. 
    
  2.      Plan Document Acknowledgment  .  In accepting the Option, you acknowledge that a copy of the Plan was made available to you, and you have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and the Addendum.   
    
  You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically approve the following provisions in the Agreement: Section 2: Vesting/Exercise/Expiration (expiration of the right to exercise the Option after the Expiration Date); Section 3: Disability (term for exercising the Option prior to the Vesting Dates in the case of a Termination of Service due to Disability); Section 4: Death (term for exercising the option prior to the Vesting Dates in the case of a Termination of Service due to death); Section 5: Retirement (term for exercising the Option prior to the Vesting Dates in the case of a Termination of Service by reason of Retirement); Section 6: Termination of Service Following a Change in Control (term for exercising the Option in the event of a Termination of Service following a Change in Control); Section 7: Other Termination of Service (term to exercise the vested Option and forfeiture of the unvested Option in other cases of Termination of Service); Section 8: Forfeiture of Outstanding Options Upon Termination for Cause or Following Termination of Service; Section 10(a): Responsibility for Taxes; Tax Withholding (liability for all Tax-Related Items related to the Option and legally applicable to the participant); Section 11: Limited Transferability (Option shall not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated); Section 18: Change in Stock (right of the Company to equitably adjust the Option and the Exercise Price in the event of any change in the Stock); Section 19(j): Nature of the Option (waive any claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arising from forfeiture of the Option resulting from a Termination of Service); Section 19(l): Nature of the Option (the Company is not liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation impacting the value of the Option); Section 22: Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality (the receipt of the Option is conditioned upon agreement of the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A); Section 23: Addendum to Agreement (the Option is subject to the terms of the Addendum); Section 25: Electronic Delivery (Company may deliver documents related to the Option or Plan electronically);  Section 26: Governing Law and Jurisdiction (Agreement is governed by Illinois law without regard to any choice of law rules thereof; agreement to exclusive jurisdiction of Illinois courts); Section 27: English Language (documents will be drawn up in English; if a translation is provided, the English version controls)..  
    
  MEXICO 
    
  1.  Commercial Relationship  .  You expressly recognize that your participation in the Plan and the Company's grant of the Option does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company.  You have been granted the Option as a consequence of the commercial relationship between the Company and the Affiliate in Mexico that employs you ("WBA Mexico"), and WBA Mexico is your sole employer.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that (a) the Plan and the benefits you may derive from your participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and WBA Mexico, (b) the Plan and the benefits you may derive from your participation in the Plan are not part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by WBA Mexico, and (c) any modifications or amendments of the Plan by the Company, or a termination of the Plan by the Company, shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment with WBA Mexico. 
    
  2.  Extraordinary Item of Compensation  .  You expressly recognize and acknowledge that your participation in the Plan is a result of the discretionary and unilateral decision of the Company, as well as your free and voluntary decision to participate in the Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.  As such, you acknowledge and agree that the Company, in its sole discretion, may amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time and without any liability.  The Option, the shares of Stock subject to the Option and the value of same is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment contract, if any, and is not part of your regular or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or any similar payments, which are the exclusive obligations of the WBA Mexico. 
    
  MONACO 
    
    Use of English Language  .  You acknowledge that it is your express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.    Vous reconnaissez avoir express ment exig  la r daction en anglais de la pr sente Convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relatifs  , ou suite  , la pr sente Convention. 
    
  NETHERLANDS 
    
    Exclusion of Claim  .  You acknowledge and agree that you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from your ceasing to have rights under or to be entitled to the Option, whether or not as a result of your Termination of Service (whether such termination is in breach of contract or otherwise), or from the loss or diminution in value of the Option.  Upon the grant of the Option, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement. 
    
  ROMANIA 
    
    Voluntary Termination of Service  .  For the sake of clarity, a voluntary Termination of Service shall include the situation where your employment contract is terminated by operation of law on the date you reach the standard retirement age and have completed the minimum contribution record for receipt of state retirement pension or the relevant authorities award you an early-retirement pension of any type. 
    
  RUSSIA 
    
  1.  No Offering of Securities in Russia  .  The grant of the Option is not intended to be an offering of securities within the territory of the Russian Federation, and you acknowledge and agree that you will be unable to make any subsequent sale of the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Option in the Russian Federation. 
    
  2.  Repatriation Requirements  .  You agree to promptly repatriate proceeds resulting from the sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan to a foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia if legally required at the time shares of Stock are sold and to comply with all applicable local foreign exchange rules and regulations. Neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates shall be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  
    
  SPAIN 
    
  1.  Acknowledgement of Discretionary Nature of the Plan; No Vested Rights  . This provision supplements the terms of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting the Option, you acknowledge that you consent to participation in the Plan and have received a copy of the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion granted an Option under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis.  Consequently, you understand that the Option is granted on the assumption and condition that the Option and the shares of Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that this grant would not be made to you but for the assumptions and conditions referenced above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, the Option shall be null and void. 
    
  Further, you understand and agree that the vesting of the Option is expressly conditioned on your continued and active rendering of service, such that upon a Termination of Service, the Option may cease vesting immediately, in whole or in part, effective on the date of your Termination of Service (unless otherwise specifically provided in Section 3, 4, 5 or 6 of the Agreement). This will be the case, for example, even if (a) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause; (b) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective dismissal; (c) you terminate service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition, (d) you terminate service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Company or an Affiliate.  Consequently, upon a Termination of Service for any of the above reasons, you may automatically lose any rights to the Option that were not vested on the date of your Termination of Service, as described in the Plan and Agreement.  In addition, you understand and agree that the post-Termination of Service exercise period specified in the Agreement shall run from the date of your Termination of Service, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. 
    
  You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in the Agreement regarding the impact of a Termination of Service on the Option. 
    
  2.  Termination for Cause  .  "Cause" shall be defined as indicated in Section 8 of the Agreement, irrespective of whether the termination is or is not considered a fair termination (i.e., "despido procedente") under Spanish legislation. 
    
  3.  No Public Offering  .  No "offer of securities to the public," within the meaning of Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory in connection with the Option.  The Plan, the Agreement (including this Addendum) and any other documents evidencing the grant of the Option have not, nor will they be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores   (the Spanish securities regulator) and none of those documents constitute a public offering prospectus.  
    
  SWITZERLAND 
    
  Securities Law Notification  .  The Option is not considered a public offering in Switzerland; therefore, it is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Option constitute a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Option may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other offering or marketing materials relating to the Option have been or will be filed with, or approved or supervised by, any Swiss regulatory authority (in particular, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA)).  
    
  TURKEY 
    
    Securities Law Notification  .  The sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan is not permitted within Turkey.  The sale of shares of Stock acquired under the Plan must occur outside of Turkey.  The shares of Stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol "WBA" and shares of Stock may be sold on this exchange.  
    
  ***                    ***                    ***                    ***                    *** 
  By clicking the acceptance box for this grant agreement, I acknowledge receipt of the Stock Option Award Agreement to which this Addendum is attached as Exhibit B, and I agree to the terms and conditions expressed in this Addendum. 

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.62>
 5
 exhibit1062.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.62

Exhibit 

PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL 

13 July 2017 
    
  PRIVATE   CONFIDENTIAL 
    
  Alex Gourlay 
  108 Wilmot Road 
  Deerfield, IL 60015 

Dear Alex, 
    
  Extension to your Assignment to Walgreen Co. 
  This letter is to confirm the extension of your secondment to Walgreen Co. under the secondment letter agreement dated 26 September 2013 between you and Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited (formerly Alliance Boots Management Services Ltd.), as previously extended per letter agreement dated 27 January 2016   27 March 2017 (collectively, the  Agreement ).  This extension is for an additional 12 months, with an end date of 31 July 2018. 
    
  All assignment terms and conditions remain unchanged, as detailed in the Agreement. 

Please sign below to confirm that you have read, understand and agree to this extension of the Agreement. 

Yours sincerely, 

/s/ Kathleen Wilson-Thompson 
    
  Kathleen Wilson-Thompson, 
  Executive Vice President - Global Chief Human Resources Officer, WBA 
  Signed on behalf of Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited 

I confirm that I have read, understand and agree to be bound by the contents of this extension letter. 
    
  Alex Gourlay 

/s/ Alex Gourlay                  
  Signed 
    
  7/20/17                     
  Date signed 

Page 1 of 1 

</EX-10.62>

<EX-10.63>
 6
 exhibit1063.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.63

Exhibit 

28, September 2016     

PRIVATE   CONFIDENTIAL 
    
  Ken Murphy 
  [                   ] 
           [                   ] 

Dear Ken, 
  YOUR SECONDMENT TO WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC, USA 
  This letter is to confirm the terms which will apply to you during your secondment to     Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc.  You will remain an employee of Boots Management Services Ltd ( the Company ), and your secondment will begin on 1 November 2016 and end on 31 October 2018, subject to earlier termination (see paragraph 5 below).  Your secondment may continue beyond 31 October 2018 if both you and the Company agree to this but, in any event, the maximum duration of your secondment under these terms shall be three years. We will review the position with respect to the secondment duration during the last six months of the arrangement.  
  During this secondment you will be assigned on an accompanied basis.  
  For the duration of your secondment, you will remain in the employment of the Company under the terms and conditions of your current employment contract with Boots Management Services Ltd (your  Employment Contract ) and subject always to the terms set out below.  The policies developed for employees working in the UK will continue to apply to you during your secondment subject to any mandatory statutory minimum provisions which may apply to you and which are in force from time to time in the UK. 
  Your HR Partner is currently Dave Vallance and all consents and authorisations which you are required to obtain from the Company regarding policy should be sought from your HR Manager. If you have any queries regarding support for your secondment, you should also contact Andy Burley, the Senior International Assignments Manager in the UK. 
   Your job title will be Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer and President of Global Brands. 
           2. 
    Place of work 
     
   - 1 -     

Your normal place of work will be at Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc., Deerfield, Illinois.  However, you may be required to travel to or work at other locations within the region, and rest of the world, from time to time for the proper performance of your duties.   
           3. 
    Hours of work 
     Your normal hours of work will be 40 hours per week.  You are required to work such additional hours     as are necessary for the proper performance of your duties. 
   Your holiday entitlement will be determined in accordance with your Employment Contract, except that you must take US public     holidays in lieu of UK bank and public holidays. 
           5. 
    Duration of, and terms applicable on termination of, your secondment and/or employment 
              (a) 
    The start and continuation of your secondment will be subject to you obtaining appropriate documentary evidence of your entitlement to live and work in the US and to you remaining entitled to live and work in the US.   
              (b) 
    During your secondment the provisions of your Employment Contract relating to termination of your employment     with the Company will continue to apply.  Notice of termination of your employment with the Company may be given by you or the Company at any time (i.e. whether before, on or after termination of your secondment), and your secondment will end automatically on termination of your employment.   
              (c) 
    Your secondment     may be terminated by the Company giving you not less than 8 weeks  notice in writing (or in accordance with paragraphs 5(a) or (b) above or paragraph 12(c)     below). 
              (d) 
    At the end of your secondment these Secondment Terms will cease to apply (and provided your employment with the Company is not terminated) you may be offered (and if offered would be expected to accept) employment with the Company in the UK at the same or a more senior grade and at a salary which would not be less than your current UK Notional Salary.  If such a position is offered to you, you would not be entitled to receive any redundancy pay from the Company (or any other Group Company) whether or not you decide to accept the UK position offered to you. 
     
     Page 2 of 2 

(For the purposes of this secondment letter  Group Company  means the Company and any  holding  or  subsidiary  company of the Company as those terms are defined in the Companies Act 1985.)     
           (e) 
    Alternatively you may be offered employment with the Company     (or any Group Company) in any country outside the UK, subject to new terms and conditions of employment which the Company (and/or the relevant Group Company) considers are appropriate for the new expatriate role offered to you.  Your new Notional Salary would not be less than your current UK Notional Salary.  
              (f) 
    Should you decide not to accept any new role offered to you, or if no alternative employment is offered to you on termination of your secondment (whether in the UK or overseas), you may be eligible for a company redundancy payment.  We are pleased to confirm that, notwithstanding that the Company s redundancy policy for employees based in the UK does not apply to you, the amount of any redundancy pay would be calculated in the same way as for the Company s employees working in the UK, subject to applicable laws.  The Company cannot, of course, guarantee that any such payment would be paid to you tax free and any payment would be Tax Equalised.  The amount of any company redundancy payment would be reduced by the amount of any severance payment (or similar payment) due to you under any applicable laws.  
              (g) 
    If you terminate your employment before the end of your secondment or if your employment is terminated by the Company following your refusal of an offer of employment in the UK in accordance with paragraph 5(d) above, termination of your employment would be regarded as  Termination on Resignation  for the purposes of this secondment letter, see further below. 
              6. 
    Remuneration 
               (b) 
    Your Overseas Incentive Allowance will be up to 10% of your UK Notional Salary.     
              (c) 
    Your Assignment Salary will be your UK Notional Salary together with your Overseas Incentive Allowance. Your Assignment Salary will be Tax Equalised (see paragraph 7 below).  
              (d) 
    Your Cost of Living Allowance ( COLA ) is currently  20,685 per year     and will be paid in addition to your Assignment Salary.  Your COLA will be reviewed annually in November for the new rates (see the notes on your assignment calculation).  Your COLA will   not   be Tax  
     
     Page 3 of 3 

Equalised.  The applicable COLA will be determined by the Company from time to time at its absolute discretion.    
           (e) 
    Your Assignment Salary and COLA will be paid     to you in equal instalments (subject to appropriate deductions in respect of any pension contributions and any other agreed deductions) monthly in arrears on or about the 28th day of the month by credit transfer to your nominated bank account(s).   
              (f) 
    A proportion of your Assignment Salary and COLA will be paid by the Company in the UK in pounds sterling. 
       A proportion of your Assignment Salary and COLA will be paid by the Company in the US in US Dollars. 
  The Company may, at its absolute discretion, agree to vary the proportion of your Assignment Salary and COLA paid in each country.  Requests for variation to payment arrangements should be made to your Assignment Manager.  (Please note that payments to a UK bank account may be subject to income tax and social security contributions in an overseas country and payments to an overseas bank account may be subject to income tax and social security contributions in the UK.) 
           (g) 
    Your UK Notional Salary and COLA will be reviewed by the Company from time to time at its absolute discretion.  Currently, these are reviewed annually in November.  Following review, your UK Notional Salary may be increased but will not be reduced.  The applicable COLA may be increased or decreased.  
              (h) 
    You will receive a one off, Tax Equalised, lump sum payment of  6,985 net (your  Disturbance Allowance ).  This sum is intended to cover  out of pocket expenses  associated with your relocation to the US such as provision for pets, small electrical goods, clothes, mail redirection, utility reconnection charges, self learning language tapes, school uniforms etc. 
              (i) 
    You will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company  bonus scheme in force from time to time.  Calculation of any bonus due will be based on your UK Notional Salary.  Any bonus payment made to you will be Tax Equalised. 
              7. 
    Tax and social security 
     
     Page 4 of 4 

(a) 
    The Company will  Tax Equalise  your Assignment Salary and other remuneration and benefits identified as  Tax Equalised  in this secondment letter (the  Tax Equalised Amounts ). 
     The Company will calculate the UK tax and National Insurance contributions, which would be due in respect of the Tax Equalised Amounts if you were working in the UK (your  UK Hypothetical Tax ).  
  The Tax Equalised Amounts will be increased or decreased such that, after deduction of any UK and the US income tax and social security contributions which actually apply to the Tax Equalised Amounts, the sums due to you will be equal to the sums which would have been due if UK Hypothetical Tax had been deducted instead.   
           (b)  
    It is your responsibility to comply with UK and the US tax laws     and to ensure that your tax returns are properly submitted within the relevant deadlines.  It is also your responsibility to promptly recover any overpayment of tax or social security contributions made to any relevant authority for the benefit of the Company and to pay over any such sums recovered to the Company promptly. 
              (c) 
    If any overpayment is made to you by the Company as a result of Tax Equalisation the Company reserves the right to recover all or part of any sum(s) overpaid from you by making deductions in accordance with paragraph 8, and without prejudice to the Company s other rights and remedies.    
              (d) 
    You are eligible to receive tax advice annually at the Company s expense, from tax advisers nominated by the Company from time to time (and subject to such financial and/or other conditions as the Company may from time to time impose)     in respect of both UK and the US tax returns relating to your period of secondment.  Such advice will be provided in relation to remuneration from your employment only.  The Company will not pay for additional tax planning advice, for example in relation to personal investments. 
     Any penalties or interest charges incurred because you fail to provide information or documentation requested by the nominated tax adviser promptly will be your responsibility.  The Company will not reimburse you in respect of any such costs.   
           (e) 
    If your employment terminates on resignation (see paragraph 5(g)) the cost of any subsequent advice provided to you in respect of tax return preparation may be your responsibility and no reimbursement will be made by the Company.  If your assignment is extended resulting in a  
     
     Page 5 of 5 

repayment of UK taxes, the Company advisers will calculate the split between the amount due to you and the portion payable to the Company.   The Company reserves the right to make deductions in accordance with paragraph 8     in this regard. 
           8. 
    Deductions 
     By signing this secondment letter you authorise the Company to deduct from your remuneration or other sums owed to you by the Company (whether during or after termination of your employment) all sum(s) due from you to the Company, without prejudice to Company s other rights and remedies. 
           9. 
    Business expenses 
     You will be reimbursed in respect of expenses incurred wholly and necessarily in the proper performance of your duties in accordance with the Company s policy from time to time.  Your expenses will be reimbursed by Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. on behalf of the Company by direct credit transfer into your nominated US bank account in US Dollars, monthly in arrears, provided that you have supplied evidence satisfactory to the Company that the expenditure has been properly incurred in good time. 
   During your secondment you will continue to be eligible to participate in The Alliance Healthcare and Boots Retirement Savings Plan (the  Scheme ).  Your UK Notional Salary will be used for the purposes of calculating the pension contributions to be paid, subject to HMRC limits.  Your current pension arrangements will continue whilst on International Assignment to the US. Your participation will remain subject to the terms of the Scheme from time to time in force and applicable laws.    
           11. 
    Life assurance and long term disability cover 
     You will be covered by the Company s Personal Accident cover and you have been provided with the details of this cover.         12.             Medical treatment and medical examination 
           (a) 
    You will be eligible to participate in the Company s medical insurance plan in force from time to time.  The current plan covers, broadly, additional costs above those, which would have been incurred if you had received treatment in the UK.   Payments may be made in respect of medical, dental, optical and maternity treatment and the Plan may cover both clinical and surgical treatment.   Please note that reimbursement of such costs will only be made if such sums can be  
     
     Page 6 of 6 

recovered from the Company s insurers.  The Company reserves the right to amend and/or replace this scheme and/or the cover provided from time to time.  Further details of the current scheme and the way in which you should reclaim medical expenses are available from your Assignment Manager.  
            (b) 
    The Company may from time to time (whether before or during your secondment) require you to submit to a medical examination by a medical practitioner nominated by the Company at its sole discretion, and at the Company s expense.  You consent to the disclosure of the results of any such examination to the Company, in as far as they relate to your fitness to perform your duties and/or eligibility to receive benefits, and subject always to applicable laws.  The Company may cease payment of your remuneration and discontinue the provision of benefits to you if it is advised by such medical adviser that you are fit to return to work (and you do not do so immediately) or if you fail to attend any such examination without reasonable cause. 
              (c) 
    The Company reserves the right to withdraw any offer of secondment or terminate any secondment and require you to return to the UK without notice (or on short notice) if, in the Company s opinion, you are not fit to perform your duties or unlikely to return to work within a reasonable time period or if in the Company s opinion you or your partner should undergo medical treatment provided by the NHS in the UK. 
              1. 
    Car Cash Allowance 
     During your assignment you will be eligible for two company cars as a part of your allowances.  This will either be continuation of your existing UK allowance or the company will provide a US lease car for your use.  Visas and permits may be required by local rules and laws.  You will be required to follow these laws.  
  In the event you need to dispose of cars in the UK prior to relocating, your relocation consultant will assist with the sale or end of the lease.  Per policy, any loss on sale or lease penalty will be covered up to  3,472 per vehicle. 
           2. 
    Visas and permits  
     The Company will, at its expense, where appropriate apply for (and where appropriate assist you to obtain) any necessary work, residential and other permits or visas required for both you and your dependents for the duration of your secondment (and the Company will reimburse you for any reasonable costs incurred in obtaining such permits or visas). You are required to assist the Company in this regard. 
  
     Page 7 of 7 

3. 
    Accommodation  
              (a) 
    The Company will provide the cost of suitable furnished accommodation for you in the US, subject to approval. This will include utilities, insurance, and maintenance costs. 
               (b) 
    The assistance of a relocation agent will be provided to help locate a suitable property, and to provide you with local information 
       
           4. 
    School Fees 
     The company will support the cost of school fees for primary and secondary school education in the United States for your accompanying children during the course of your secondment unless attending a public school for which there is no cost.  Generally, the difference between the cost of the education in the UK is considered against the cost in the US and the difference is provided to you.  
    
           5. 
    Relocation and repatriation expenses and home visits 
     Subject to Company policy in force from time to time (including applicable financial limits), the Company will reimburse you the costs of the following:  
           (a) 
    A pre assignment visit of up to five days in duration for you and your dependants in order to source appropriate accommodation in the US. 
              (b) 
    One business class     one way air fare, for you and your dependants, between the UK and the US at the start and at the end of your secondment (provided that your employment does not Terminate on Resignation) between the US     and the UK or the location of any subsequent expatriate secondment by the Company. 
              (c) 
    Up to five (5) Business Class round trip flights home for you and your dependants, between the UK and the US every twelve months. 
              (d) 
    Transporting a reasonable amount of your personal belongings at the start and end of your secondment between the UK and the US.  The costs of the air freight of 200lbs for you and for sea freight a 40-foot (6 metres x 2.5 metres x 2.5 metres) container per relocation would normally be paid for by the Company provided that your employment does not Terminate on Resignation.  The relocation company will determine the best use of your total allowance when they review the items to be moved. 
     
     Page 8 of 8 

(e) 
    If you let your property in the UK you may have items, which you do not wish to leave in your property while overseas.  The Company will pay for storage and insurance costs in respect of that property subject to a maximum agreed amount.  
              (f) 
    You are entitled to a  repatriate allowance  of  6,984 which will be paid to you on your return to the UK. This will be a net payment. 
              (g) 
    Repatriation will include Business Class Return flights to your return location (either the UK or Ireland and as approved by the business) for you and your dependents; return of your personal belongings at the same rate and size as included in (d) above; any fees related to your release from the property in the US and any contents that may be leased; any fees related to the early cancellation of any auto leases.  It will also include up to 8 weeks of housing accommodations in your home country in order to re-establish permanent housing. 
              6. 
    Grievances 
     If you have any grievance relating to your secondment or your employment you should raise it with your Assignment Manager.  You should make it clear that you wish to raise a formal grievance. You may be asked to put your grievance in writing.  If the grievance is not resolved to your satisfaction you may raise the matter with Dave Valance in writing, whose decision will be final. 
           7. 
    Miscellaneous 
              (a) 
    This secondment letter and your Contract of Employment together record the whole Agreement between you and the Company in respect of your secondment and supersede any prior agreements in this regard. 
              (b) 
    This secondment letter shall be governed and construed in all respects by English law and you and the Company irrevocably submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of England.   
       
           (c) 
    A person, firm, company or corporation who or which is not a party to this agreement (including your partner) shall have no right to enforce any term of this agreement. 

Please would you sign, date and return to me the duplicate copy of this letter to confirm that you have read, understand and agree to its contents.  The additional copy is for you to keep. 
  
     Page 9 of 9 

Yours sincerely, 

Thomas A. Sondergeld 
  On behalf of Kathleen Wilson-Thompson 
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc  
  on behalf of Boots Management Services Ltd 

/s/ Kathleen Wilson-Thompson 
    
  Kathleen Wilson-Thompson 
  EVP and Global Chief Human Resources Officer 

I confirm that I have read, understand and agree to be bound by the contents of this secondment letter. 
  Ken Murphy 

Signed /s/ Ken Murphy                  

11 October, 2017                          
  Date signed 
  
     Page 10 of 10 

</EX-10.63>

<EX-12>
 7
 exhibit12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12 
    
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 
  Computation of Historical Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges (a) 
  (in millions, except ratio data) 

(a) For the purpose of computing these ratios, "earnings" consist of earnings before income tax provision and before adjustment for income or loss from equity investees, interest, distributed income of equity-method investees, and the portions of rentals representative of the interest factor.  "Fixed charges" consist of interest expense (which includes amortization of capitalized debt issuance costs), capitalized interest and the portions of rentals representative of the interest factor. 
    
  Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. is the successor of Walgreen Co. See note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
    
  As of   August 31, 2017   Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. (Registrant) had the following subsidiaries: 
    
                 Name 
    State or Country 
  of Incorporation 
      Hydra Pharm SPA 
    Algeria 
      Smart Insurance Company 
    Arizona 
      Walgreen Arizona Drug Co. 
    Arizona 
      Stephen L. LaFrance Pharmacy, Inc. 
    Arkansas 
      Ontario (Barbados) SRL 
    Barbados 
      Superior Bermuda GP 
    Bermuda 
      Casa Saba Brasil Holdings, Ltda 
    Brazil 
      Distrilife, Distribuidora Atacadista de Suplementos Alimenticios, Ltda 
    Brazil 
      Brandhandling International Limited 
    British Virgin Islands 
      Walgreen Drug (Ontario) Limited 
    Canada 
      MedAvail Technologies Inc. 
    Canada 
      AB Acquisitions FX Pref Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      AB Property Holdings Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Ontario CI 1 Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Ontario CI 2 Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Ontario CI 3 Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Ontario CI 4 Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Walgreen Asia Holding Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      WBAD CI 1 Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      WBAD CI 2 Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      ABF, Administradora de Beneficios Farmac uticos S.A. 
    Chile 
      Administradora Fasa, S.A. 
    Chile 
      Comercializadora y Distribuidora BF S.A. 
    Chile 
      Compa  a de Nutrici n General S.A. 
    Chile 
      Droguer a, Distribuidora y Log stica DLI S.A. 
    Chile 
      Farmacias Ahumada S.A. 
    Chile 
      Fasa Investment Limitada 
    Chile 
      Inmobiliaria Avantuen S.A. 
    Chile 
      Inmobiliaria Faster S.A. 
    Chile 
      Inversiones Internacionales Inverfar S.A. 
    Chile 
      Laboratorios MDK S.A. 
    Chile 
      Guangzhou Pharmaceuticals Corporation 
    China 
      Nanjing Pharmaceutical Company Limited 
    China 
      Guangzhou Jianmin Chain Stores., Ltd. 
    China 
      Guangzhou Jianmin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Guangzhou Guoying Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Guangzhou Xinte Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Guangzhou Qihua Medical Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Hubei Guangyao Ankang Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Fujian Guangyao Jieda Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Foshan City Guangyao Jianze Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Shenzhen Guangyao Liankang Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Hunan Guangyao Hengsheng Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Hainan Guangyao Chenfei Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Shanxi Guangyao Kangjian Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Guangdong Meixian Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Chengdu Guangyao Xinhuiyuan Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Guangxi Guangyao Xinshidai Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Jiangmen Guangyao Qiaokang Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Hubei Guangyao Jida Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Guangzhou Pharmaceuticals (HK) Limited 
    China 
      Jianmin International Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhuhai Guangyao Kangmin Medicine Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Walgreen Asia Trading Ltd. 
    China 
      Walgreens China Business Trust 
    China 
      Alliance Healthcare Corporate Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd 
    China 
      Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
    Croatia 
      Leget Investments Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Glazar Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Klada Ventures Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Sassoon Marketing   Investment Research Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Simison Holdings Limited 
    Cyprus 
      A5 Pharmacy Retail Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Alliance Healthcare s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Pharmdata s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      BAP Pharmaceuticals LLC 
    Delaware 
      Boots Retail USA Inc. 
    Delaware 
      CG Transportation, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Circa LLC 
    Delaware 
      Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Pharmacy, LLC 
    Delaware 
      DRI I Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Duane Reade Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Duane Reade Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Happy Harry's Discount Drug Stores, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Happy Harry's, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      HC Group Holdings I, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Healthcare Clinic Solutions, LLC 
    Delaware 
      MedAvail, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Onsite Holding LLC 
    Delaware 
      Pharma Dynamics, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Prime Therapeutics Specialty Pharmacy LLC 
    Delaware 
      SIC Parent, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Smart Insurance Company Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Smart Insurance Group Holdings, Inc 
    Delaware 
      Stephen L. LaFrance Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Take Care Health Systems, LLC 
    Delaware 
      WAGDCO, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Walgreen International Investments LLC 
    Delaware 
      Walgreen Investments Co 
    Delaware 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Holdings LLC 
    Delaware 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Walgreens Mail Service, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy Holdings, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Walgreens Venture Capital, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Waltrust Properties, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      WBA Financial, Inc 
    Delaware 
      WBA Investments, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Well Ventures, LLC 
    Delaware 
      WRA Partners, LLC 
    Delaware 
      United Company of Pharmacists SAE 
    Egypt 
      Alcura France 
    France 
      Alliance Healthcare Formation 
    France 
      Alliance Healthcare France SA (AHF) 
    France 
      Alliance Healthcare Group France 
    France 
      Alliance Healthcare R partition 
    France 
      Alloga France 
    France 
      Almus France 
    France 
      Alphega 
    France 
      BCM Cosmetique SAS 
    France 
      Datapharm 
    France 
      Directlog 
    France 
      S.R.P. (Services de la R partition Pharmaceutique) 
    France 
      Serex 
    France 
      Skills in Healthcare France 
    France 
      WBA France Finance SAS 
    France 
      Alliance Healthcare Deutschland AG 
    Germany 
      Alliance Healthcare Deutschland Holdings 1 GmbH 
    Germany 
      ANZAG Rostock GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      ANZAG Rostock Grundstucks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 
    Germany 
      AS Logistik GmbH 
    Germany 
      BCM Kosmetik GmbH 
    Germany 
      CPL Pharma Lager und Vertrieb GmbH 
    Germany 

GESDAT Gesellschaft fur Informationsmanagement mbH 
    Germany 
      LOXXESS Pharma GmbH 
    Germany 
      Skills in Healthcare GmbH Deutschland 
    Germany 
      Soap   Glory GmbH 
    Germany 
      vitasco GmbH 
    Germany 
      WBA Investments (Guernsey) Limited 
    Guernsey 
      Walgreen of Hawaii, LLC 
    Hawaii 
      Walgreen of Maui, Inc. 
    Hawaii 
      AA Asia Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Asia Sourcing Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Alliance Healthcare Asia Pacific Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Alliance Healthcare Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Walgreens (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance (Hong Kong) Investments Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      WBA Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Bond Drug Company of Illinois, LLC 
    Illinois 
      The 1901 Group, LLC 
    Illinois 
      The Patient Safety Research Foundation, Inc. 
    Illinois 
      Victoria Merger Sub, Inc. 
    Illinois 
      Walgreen Co. 
    Illinois 
      Walgreen Mercantile Corporation 
    Illinois 
      Walgreen National Corporation 
    Illinois 
      Walgreen Pharmacy Services Midwest, LLC 
    Illinois 
      Walgreens Business Services, LLC 
    Illinois 
      Walgreens Pharmacy Strategies, LLC 
    Illinois 
      Walgreens Store No. 7839, LLC 
    Illinois 
      Walgreens.com, Inc 
    Illinois 
      AB Acquisitions (Ireland) 2 Limited 
    Ireland 
      AB Acquisitions (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      Alliance Healthcare Limited 
    Ireland 
      Boots Retail (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      Woodglen Properties Limited 
    Ireland 
      Tyto Care Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Alliance Healthcare Italia (IT Services) Srl 
    Italy 
      Boots Contact Lenses Limited 
    Jersey 
      Armila UAB 
    Lithuania 
      Ramuneles Vaistine UAB 
    Lithuania 
      Walgreen Louisiana Co., Inc. 
    Louisiana 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 1 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 2 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 2A S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 3 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 3A S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 

WBA Acquisitions Luxco 4 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 5 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 5A S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 6 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 7 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 8 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 8A S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Acquisitions Luxco 9 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxco Property Company S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Luxembourg S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Alloga S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Superior Luxco 1 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Superior Luxco 2 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Superior Luxco 3 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Walgreen Asia Services S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Walgreen International S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Walgreen Investments Luxembourg S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 3 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 4 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 5 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 6 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 7 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 2 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      WBA Luxembourg 1 S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Cystic Fibrosis Services, LLC 
    Maryland 
      Eager Park Pharmacy and Health Services, LLC 
    Maryland 
      Walgreens of Massachusetts, LLC 
    Massachusetts 
      Benavides de Reynosa, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Comercializadora y Servicios Benavides, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Farmacias ABC de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Farmacias Benavides S.A.B. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Servicios Generales Benavides, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Servicios Logisticos Benavides, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Servicios Operacionales Benavides, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Services MC S.A.M. 
    Monaco 
      Walgreen Hastings Co. 
    Nebraska 
      AB Acquisitions Nederland Holdco 1 B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Alliance Boots B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Alliance Healthcare Management Services (Nederland) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Alliance Healthcare Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Alloga (Nederland) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Apotheek Hagi B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Apotheek Lichtenvoorde B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Boots Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Euro Registratie Collectief B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Hedef International Holdings BV 
    Netherlands 
      Kring apotheek B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Libra C.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Spits B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Stephar B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      WBA Asia Holdings BV 
    Netherlands 
      Duane Reade 
    New York 
      Walgreen Eastern Co., Inc. 
    New York 
      Walgreens Store No. 3288, LLC 
    New York 
      Alliance Healthcare Norge AS 
    Norway 
      Boots Norge AS 
    Norway 
      Snipetjernveien 10 AS 
    Norway 
      Prodak Kosmetik Sp. z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Alliance Healthcare S.A. 
    Portugal 
      Alliance Sant  - Distribui  o Farmac utica de Eul lia Baeta Pereira e Ramalho Fernandes, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      Walgreen of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Puerto Rico 
      FARMEXPERT D.C.I. SRL 
    Romania 
      Skills in Healthcare Romania S.r.l. 
    Romania 
      ALLOGA LOGISTICS ROMANIA 
    Romania 
      Pharmacy Chain 36.6 
    Russian Federation 
      LLC Apteka 36.6 
    Russian Federation 
      LLC Apteka 36.6+ 
    Russian Federation 
      LLC Apteka-A.v.e 
    Russian Federation 
      LLC Apteka-A.v.e-1 
    Russian Federation 
      LLC RID 
    Russian Federation 
      LLC GDP 
    Russian Federation 
      Alcura Health Espa a, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Alianza del Sur S.A. 
    Spain 
      Alliance Healthcare Espa a Holdings, S.L. 
    Spain 
      Alliance Healthcare Espa a S.A. 
    Spain 
      Alloga Logistica (Espa a), S.L. 
    Spain 
      Almus Farmaceutica, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Centro Farmaceutico Asturiano, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Nexiapharma, S.L. 
    Spain 
      AH Schweiz GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Alliance Boots GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Alliance Boots Schweiz Investments GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Alliance Boots Services GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Walgreen Swiss International GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Aromatherapy Associates, Inc 
    Texas 

Boots Retail (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Alliance Healthcare Ecza Deposu Anonim  irketi (fka Hedef Ecza Deposu Ticaret A.S.) 
    Turkey 
      Alliance Healthcare Turkey Holding A.S. 
    Turkey 
      Alliance Healthcare Yat r m Holding Anonim  irketi (fka Hedef - Alliance Holding A.S.) 
    Turkey 
      Esko Itriyat Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      Nareks Ecza Deposu Ticaret Anonim  irketi 
    Turkey 
      Skills in Healthcare Pazarlama ve Tan t m Hizmetleri Anonim  irketi 
    Turkey 
      A.T. Pharma Consultancy FZC 
    United Arab Emirates 
      AB Acquisitions FX Inter Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Acquisitions UK Holdco 2 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Acquisitions UK Holdco 5 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Acquisitions UK Holdco 6 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Acquisitions UK Holdco 7 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Acquisitions UK Topco Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alcura UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance BMP Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Group Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Holdings 1 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Holdings 2 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance Boots Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA International Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Investments 2 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Latin America Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance LImited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo A LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo B LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo Beeston LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo C LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo Retail Flex LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo Unichem Flex LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA PropCo Unichem LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance Boots Scottish Limited Partnership 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance Healthcare (Distribution) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance Healthcare (IT Services) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance Healthcare Management Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance UniChem Investments 4 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alliance UniChem IP Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Alloga UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Almus Pharmaceuticals Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Aroma Actives Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Aromatherapy Associates Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Aromatherapy Investments Holding Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Aromatherapy Investments Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      B B Capital Partners (GP) Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      B B Capital Partners (SLP GP) Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      B B Capital Partners (SLP) L.P. 
    United Kingdom 
      B B Capital Partners L.P. 
    United Kingdom 
      B B Investment Partners LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      BCM Employment   Management Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      BCM Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      BCM Specials Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Beachcourse Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Beccles H.C.C. Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Beeston Site Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Blyth Pharmacy Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots 2 Property Partnership 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots 2 Property Scottish Limited Partnership 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Benevolent Fund 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Charitable Trust 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Delivery Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Eyewear Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Hearingcare Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots International Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots International Management Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Korea Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Management Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Optical Investment Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Opticians Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Pensions Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo A Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo B Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo Beeston Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo C Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Propco D Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Propco E Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Propco F Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo Flex Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Propco G Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Propco H Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots PropCo Retail Flex Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Properties Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Property HoldCo Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Property Partnership 
    United Kingdom 

Boots Property Scottish Limited Partnership 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots Pure Drug Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots The Chemists Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Boots UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Caseview (P.L.) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Clarepharm Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Class Delta Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Colne (H.C.C.) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      D200 Energy Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      DDM Healthcare Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Dollond   Aitchison Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      E. Moss, Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Govanhill Pharmacy Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Holmscroft H.C. Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Keighley Health Centre Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leamington Spa Properties (Two) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Liz Earle Beauty Co. Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Maryhill Dispensary Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Nelson (H.C.C.) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Nottingham Enterprise Zone Development Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Octapharm Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Ontario Scottish Partnership 
    United Kingdom 
      Ontario UK 2 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      OTC Direct Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      PhD Acquisition Bidco Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      PhD Acquisition Midco Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      PhD Nutrition Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      S and G Investments Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Sleek Capital Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Sleek International Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Soap   Glory Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      SportsPlatform Holdco Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      SportsPlatform Midco Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Sprint Investments 1 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Sprint Investments 5 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Superior Acquisitions Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Superior Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Swindon Health Centre (PD) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      The Boots Company PLC 
    United Kingdom 
      The Refinery Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Torrington Park H.C.C. Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      TPW Acquisition Bidco Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      TPW Acquisition Midco Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Tuschem Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      UniChem Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Victoria Pharmacy Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      W.H.C.P. (Dundee) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Scottish LP 
    United Kingdom 
      Walgreens Boots Alliance Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA 1 Scottish LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA 2 Scottish LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Finance 1 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Finance 2 Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Financial Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA Financial Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 1 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 2 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 3 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 4 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 5 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 6 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 7 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK 8 LLP 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK Finance Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBAD Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Woodside Pharmacy (Glasgow) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      WBA UK Investments Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Forte Pharma Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Forte Pharma Group Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Forte Direct Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Walgreen of US Virgin Islands, LLC 
    US Virgin Islands 
      LCA Insurance Co., Inc. 
    Vermont 
      Walgreen Oshkosh, Inc. 
    Wisconsin 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 exhibit231.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the use in Registration Statement Nos. 333-201327 and 333-198768 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-209569 and 333-208587 on Form S-3 of our reports dated October 25, 2017 relating to the consolidated financial statements of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. (the  Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended   August 31, 2017  . 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  October 25, 2017    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 exhibit3111.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Stefano Pessina, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     /s/ 
    Stefano Pessina 
    Chief Executive Officer 
    Date:  October 25, 2017 
        
    Stefano Pessina 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 exhibit3121.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 
    
  I, George Fairweather, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     /s/ 
    George Fairweather 
    Global Chief Financial Officer 
    Date:  October 25, 2017 
        
    George Fairweather 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 exhibit3211.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  (18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the Annual Report of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Stefano Pessina, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge: 
    
  (1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
  (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Stefano Pessina 
  Stefano Pessina 
  Chief Executive Officer 
  Dated:  October 25, 2017 
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and will be retained by Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 exhibit3221.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  (18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the Annual Report of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, George Fairweather, Global Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge: 
    
  (1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
    
  (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ George Fairweather 
  George Fairweather 
  Global Chief Financial Officer 
  Dated:  October 25, 2017 
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and will be retained by Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 wba-20170831.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 wba-20170831.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 wba-20170831_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 wba-20170831_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 wba-20170831_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 wba-20170831_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

