<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160205_10-K_edgar_data_1166691_0001193125-16-452423_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>23152812</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1051431</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1999337</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>7085815</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9755337</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2591229</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>400</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>22</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-16-452423.hdr.sgml : 20160205
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160205170005
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-16-452423
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		151
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160205
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160205

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COMCAST CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001166691
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES [4841]
		IRS NUMBER:				270000798
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			PA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32871
		FILM NUMBER:		161392962

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1500 MARKET STREET
		CITY:			PHILADELPHIA
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19102

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AT&T COMCAST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20020206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NBCUniversal Media, LLC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000902739
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES [4841]
		IRS NUMBER:				141682529
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-36438
		FILM NUMBER:		161392963

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10112
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2126644444

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10112

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NBC Universal, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20040520

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930429

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-16-452423.txt : 20160205

10-K
 1
 d49239d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549    
         
   FORM 10-K        (Mark One)

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015        OR        
 
   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
                     TO                     

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:       Comcast Corporation         
    NBCUniversal Media, LLC   NONE   
         
   SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:       Comcast Corporation   NONE      NBCUniversal Media, LLC   NONE    
       Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.       

Comcast Corporation  
     
  Yes  

No            
 
  NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  Yes  

No            
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.       

Comcast Corporation  
     
  Yes  

No            
 
  NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  Yes  

No            
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Comcast Corporation  
     
  Yes  

No            
 
  NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  Yes  

No            
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if
any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   

Comcast Corporation  
     
  Yes  

No            
 
  NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  Yes  

No            
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendments to this Form 10-K.   

Comcast Corporation  

NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  N/A   
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:   

Comcast Corporation  
     
  Large accelerated
filer           
     
  Accelerated
filer           
     
  Non-accelerated
filer           
     
  Smaller reporting company            
 
  NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  Large accelerated
filer           
     
  Accelerated
filer           
     
  Non-accelerated
filer           
     
  Smaller reporting company            
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).   

Comcast Corporation  
     
  Yes  

No            
 
  NBCUniversal Media, LLC  
     
  Yes  

No            
    As of June 30, 2015, the aggregate market value of the Comcast Corporation common stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant was $148.617 billion.      Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of stock, as
of the latest practicable date:      As of December 31, 2015, there were 2,432,953,988 shares of Comcast Corporation Class A common
stock and 9,444,375 shares of Class B common stock outstanding.      Not applicable for NBCUniversal Media, LLC.   
   NBCUniversal Media, LLC meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a), (b) and (d) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing
this form with the reduced disclosure format.         
        DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED
BY REFERENCE       Comcast Corporation   Part III   The registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of
shareholders presently scheduled to be held in May 2016.      NBCUniversal Media, LLC   NONE   

Table of Contents  

   Comcast Corporation   
  2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K   
    Table of Contents       

PART I    

Item 1  
      
     Business    

1  

Item 1A  
      
     Risk Factors    

25  

Item 1B  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

34  

Item 2  
      
     Properties    

34  

Item 3  
      
     Legal Proceedings    

35  

Item 4  
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

35  

PART II    

Item 5  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    

36  

Item 6  
      
     Selected Financial Data    

40  

Item 7  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

41  

Item 7A  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

70  

Item 8  
      
     Comcast Corporation Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

73  

Item 9  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

125  

Item 9A  
      
     Controls and Procedures    

125  

Item 9B  
      
     Other Information    

126  

PART III    

Item 10  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

127  

Item 11  
      
     Executive Compensation    

128  

Item 12  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

128  

Item 13  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

129  

Item 14  
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

129  

PART IV    

Item 15  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

130  

Signatures   

141  

NBCUniversal Media, LLC Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

143  
       
     Explanatory Note       This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report being filed separately by Comcast Corporation ( Comcast ) and NBCUniversal Media, LLC ( NBCUniversal ). Comcast owns all of the common equity
interests in NBCUniversal, and NBCUniversal meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a), (b) and (d) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing its information within this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format. Each of
Comcast and NBCUniversal is filing on its own behalf the information contained in this report that relates to itself, and neither company makes any representation as to information relating to the other company. Where information or an explanation
is provided that is substantially the same for each company, such information or explanation has been combined in this report. Where information or an explanation is not substantially the same for each company, separate information and explanation
has been provided. In addition, separate consolidated financial statements for each company, along with notes to the consolidated financial statements, are included in this report. Unless indicated otherwise, throughout this Annual Report on Form
10-K, we refer to Comcast and its consolidated subsidiaries, including NBCUniversal and its consolidated subsidiaries, as  we,   us  and  our;  Comcast Cable Communications, LLC and its subsidiaries as  Comcast
Cable;  Comcast Holdings Corporation as  Comcast Holdings;  and NBCUniversal, LLC as  NBCUniversal Holdings.    

Table of Contents  

   This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2015. This Annual Report on  Form 10-K  modifies and supersedes documents filed before it.      The Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) allows us to  incorporate by reference  information that we file with it, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by
reference is considered to be part of this Annual Report on  Form 10-K.  In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      Our registered trademarks include Comcast, NBCUniversal and the Comcast and NBCUniversal logos. This
Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains other trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us, as well as those owned by others.   

Table of Contents  

   Part I         
    Item 1: Business      We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have
developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963. In 2011, we acquired control of the businesses of NBCUniversal from General Electric Company (the  NBCUniversal transaction ), and in 2013, we acquired the remaining 49% common
equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings that we did not already own.      We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable
business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments. The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks segments comprise the NBCUniversal
businesses (collectively, the  NBCUniversal segments ).       

Cable Communications:  Consists of the operations of Comcast Cable, which is one of the nation s largest providers of video, high-speed Internet
and voice services ( cable services ) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand; we also provide these and other services to business customers and sell advertising.    

Cable Networks:  Consists primarily of our national cable networks, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our
cable television studio production operations.    

Broadcast Television:  Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our 10 NBC and 17 Telemundo owned local broadcast television
stations, and our broadcast television studio production operations.    

Filmed Entertainment:  Consists primarily of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed
entertainment worldwide.    

Theme Parks:  Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. In November 2015, NBCUniversal acquired a
51% interest in the Universal Studios theme park located in Osaka, Japan ( Universal Studios Japan ).    
          Our other business interests consist primarily of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the
Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses.   
  For financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Note 18 to Comcast s consolidated financial statements and Note 17 to NBCUniversal s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
  Available Information and Websites      Comcast s
phone number is (215) 286-1700, and its principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. NBCUniversal s phone number is (212) 664-4444, and its principal executive offices are located at 30
Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10112-0015. Comcast and NBCUniversal s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), are available free of charge on the SEC s   

Table of Contents  

website at www.sec.gov and on Comcast s website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information
posted on our websites is not incorporated into our SEC filings. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.      Description of Our Businesses   
   Cable Communications Segment    
      The table below summarizes certain customer
and penetration data for our cable system operations.       
    Basis of Presentation: Customer metrics include our residential and business customers. Information related to cable
system acquisitions is included from the date acquired. Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to
rounding.       

(a)  
     
    Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines. Homes and
businesses passed is an estimate based on the best available information.          

(b)  
     
    Customer relationships represent the number of residential and business customers that subscribe to at least one of our cable services. Single product, double
product and triple product customers represent customers that subscribe to one, two or three of our cable services, respectively.          

(c)  
     
    Generally, a home or business receiving video programming from our distribution system counts as one video customer. For multiple dwelling units
( MDUs ) whose residents have the ability to receive additional cable services, such as additional programming choices or our high-definition video ( HD ) or digital video recorder ( DVR ) advanced services, we count
and report customers based on the number of potential billable relationships within each MDU. For MDUs whose residents are not able to receive additional cable services, the MDU is counted as a single customer.      

(d)  
     
    Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed.      

(e)  
     
    Digital video customers include customers receiving digital signals through any means, including digital transport adapters and CableCARDs. Digital video
penetration is calculated by dividing the number of digital video customers by total video customers.      

Table of Contents  

    Cable Services       We offer a variety of cable services over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Subscription rates and related charges vary according to the services and features customers receive
and the type of equipment they use, and customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis. The majority of our residential cable services customers are not subject to minimum-term contracts for their services, while substantially all of
our business customers are. Minimum-term contracts are typically 2 years in length for residential customers and typically range from 2 to 5 years for business services customers. Customers with minimum-term contracts may only discontinue service in
accordance with the terms of their contracts, which may include an early termination fee.      The Areas We Serve   
  The map below highlights our footprint as of December 31, 2015 and the designated market areas ( DMAs ) in which we offer cable
services that have 125,000 or more video customers. The number of high-speed Internet customers in these DMAs is generally similar to the number of our video customers. The locations that are bolded represent the markets we operate in that were also
included in the top 25 U.S. television markets as of December 31, 2015.           

Video Services      We offer a broad variety of video services under the XFINITY brand, with access to hundreds of channels depending on the customer s level of service. Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic
service with access to between 20 and 40 channels to a full digital service with access to more than 300 channels. Our video services generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, and national and
regional cable networks, as well as government and public access programming. Our digital video services generally include access to our On Demand service and an interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer packages that include extensive
amounts of foreign-language programming, and we offer other specialty tiers of programming with sports, family and international themes. We tailor our video services for a particular geographic area according to applicable local and federal
regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics.   

Table of Contents  

   Our video customers may also subscribe to premium networks. Premium networks include networks such as
HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax that generally provide, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events and concerts, and other features.   
  Our On Demand service provides digital video customers with approximately 75,000 programming choices over the course of a month, including 30,000
in high definition. A substantial portion of our On Demand content is available at no additional charge; other content, primarily movies and special-events programming, such as sporting events and concerts, can be rented or in some cases purchased
to own digitally. We continue to increase the number of On Demand choices, including the number of movies and television shows that can be purchased.      Our HD service provides customers with high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format through an HD set-top box. Our HD service includes a broad selection of HD programming
choices, including major broadcast networks, national cable networks, premium networks and regional sports networks. Our DVR service allows digital video customers to record and store programs on their set-top box and play them at whatever time is
convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind live television.      Our X1 service, which is a cloud-enabled
video platform, provides customers with integrated search functionality, personalized recommendations and access to certain third-party Internet applications through television sets. We also offer our Cloud DVR technology in substantially all of our
markets. Cloud DVR technology allows our video customers to record television shows and movies from their home using cloud-based servers and view those recordings on mobile devices via our mobile apps.   
  Through our online portal, our video customers may view certain live programming and On Demand content, browse program listings, and schedule and
manage DVR recordings. We also have streaming services that provide customers with access to certain programming via On Demand, online and through our mobile apps and, depending on the customer s level of service, may require an additional
monthly fee.      High-Speed Internet Services      We offer a variety of high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds of up to 150 Mbps, as well as downstream speeds of up to 505 Mbps in limited markets. These services include our online portal and mobile
apps, which provide access to email, contacts and calendars, and online security features. In addition, we are actively deploying wireless gateways, which combine a customer s wireless router, cable modem and voice adapter, to improve the
performance of multiple Internet-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network. We are continuing to expand our network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots
to allow most of our high-speed Internet customers to access our high-speed Internet services inside and outside the home, and we provide access to approximately 13.3 million of these hotspots as of December 31, 2015.   
  Voice Services      We offer voice
services using an interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) technology. Our voice services provide either usage-based or unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling and include options for international calling plans,
voicemail, voicemail transcriptions, text messaging, caller ID and call waiting. For customers with our high-speed Internet services, our voice services also include the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account
features through our online portal or our mobile apps.      Business Services   
  We offer our cable services to small and medium-sized businesses, and more recently, we have begun to offer services to large enterprises with
multiple locations ( business services ). In addition to the features we   

Table of Contents  

provide to our residential cable services customers, our services for business customers include an interactive tool that allows customers to share, coordinate and store documents online, hosted
voice services that use cloud network servers, a business directory listing, and additional capacity for multiple phone lines.      We also
offer to medium-sized businesses and large enterprises Ethernet network services that connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options, and we offer cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help
those customers manage network bandwidth.      The new enterprise service offering is designed to serve Fortune 1000 companies and other
large nationwide enterprises with multiple locations both in and outside of our cable distribution footprint. We service these multiple locations through agreements we have with other cable companies and providers that allow us to use their networks
to fill in the gaps in our coverage areas.       Advertising       As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that our Spotlight business sells to local, regional and national
advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising units are sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to us. We also
represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand service.   
   Other Revenue Sources       We receive revenue
related to cable franchise and other regulatory fees and from our home security and automation services. Cable franchise and other regulatory fees represent the fees we are required to pay to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through
to our customers. Under the terms of our cable franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the cable franchising authority an amount based on our gross video revenue. Our home security and automation services provide our customers with
home monitoring services and the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and room temperature, through our online portal or our mobile apps.       Technology       Our cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network
that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and high-speed
Internet and voice services. We are also leveraging our network to develop and deliver innovative services to our customers efficiently and in an accelerated fashion.      We continue to focus on technology initiatives, such as:       

deploying and launching next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as our X1 platform and related Cloud DVR technology, that use IP technology
and our own cloud network servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities, including through a voice-activated remote control, and allow access to certain third-party Internet applications    

deploying wireless gateways to improve the performance of multiple Internet-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet
speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network    

Table of Contents  

developing multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network to allow for faster Internet speeds and capacity, including using advanced video
encoding and digital compression technologies and DOCSIS innovations, such as DOCSIS 3.1    

developing and deploying various technology and software tools to improve the customer experience    
           Sources of Supply       To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our programming from cable networks and broadcast networks, as well as from local broadcast television stations. We attempt to secure long-term
programming distribution agreements with these programming providers. We also license programming for our On Demand and streaming services. We seek to include in our distribution agreements the rights to offer such programming to our subscribers
through multiple delivery platforms that may be used in a variety of locations, such as through On Demand, our online portal and our mobile apps.      We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes and certain other customer premise equipment, network equipment and services that we use to provide our cable services to our
residential and business customers.      For our high-speed Internet services, we license software products, such as email and security
software, and content, such as news feeds for our online portal, from a variety of suppliers. Under our contracts with these suppliers, we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a
video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses.      For our voice services, we license software products such as
voicemail and text messaging from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts. The fees we pay are generally based on the consumption of the related services.      We use two primary vendors to provide customer billing for our cable services to our residential and business customers.       Customer and Technical Services       Our customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering
capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system.       Sales and Marketing       We offer our services directly to residential and business customers
through customer service call centers, customer service centers, door-to-door selling, telemarketing and retail outlets, as well as through advertising via direct mail, television and the Internet. We market our cable services both individually and
as bundled services.       NBCUniversal Segments    
       Cable Networks    
  Our Cable Networks segment consists of a diversified portfolio of national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and
information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our cable television studio production operations. We also own various digital media properties, which primarily include brand-aligned
websites.   

Table of Contents  

   The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks and their advertising reach to U.S.
households.       

(a)  
     
    Household data is based on The Nielsen Company s January reports, except for Universal HD, which is derived from information provided by multichannel
video providers. Household data for 2015 is derived from information available during the period from December 21, 2015 through December 27, 2015.         Our regional sports and news networks together serve more than 28 million households across the United States, including key markets such as Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland,
Sacramento and San Francisco.      We market and distribute our cable network programming in the United States and internationally to
multichannel video providers, as well as to subscription video on demand services such as those offered by Amazon, Hulu and Netflix. These distributors may provide our content on television, including via video on demand services, online and through
mobile apps.      Our cable networks produce their own programs or acquire programming rights from third parties. Our cable television
studio production operations identify, develop and produce original content for cable television and other distribution platforms for our cable networks and third parties. We license this content to cable networks, broadcast networks and
subscription video on demand services.       Broadcast Television       Our Broadcast Television segment operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast television networks, which together serve audiences and advertisers in all 50 states. Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our
owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and related digital media properties.   
  NBC Network      The NBC network
distributes more than 5,000 hours of entertainment, news and sports programming annually, and its programs reach viewers in virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 10
owned NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations. The NBC network develops a broad range of entertainment, news and sports content and also broadcasts a   

Table of Contents  

variety of special-events programming. The NBC network s programming library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including
current and classic titles, unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world. In addition, the NBC network owns various digital media properties, which primarily
include brand-aligned websites.        The NBC network produces its own programs or acquires the rights to programming from third
parties. NBCUniversal has various contractual commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming. Our most significant sports programming commitments include an agreement with the NFL to produce and
broadcast a specified number of regular season and playoff games, including  Sunday Night Football  on NBC through the 2022-23 season and the 2018 and 2021 Super Bowl games. In addition, the NBC network owns the U.S. broadcast rights for the
summer and winter Olympic Games through 2032. We also have broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season, U.S. television rights to English Premier League soccer through the 2021-22 season, certain PGA TOUR and other
golf events through 2030 and certain NASCAR events through 2024. NBCUniversal s sports programming agreements also include the rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including the NBC Sports Network and Golf Channel, on
our regional sports networks where applicable, and also online, including through our mobile apps.         Our broadcast television
studio production operations develop and produce original content, including scripted and unscripted programming series and talk shows. This original content is licensed to broadcast networks, cable networks and local broadcast television stations
owned by us and third parties, as well as to subscription video on demand services, and it is sold on standard-definition DVDs and Blu-ray discs (together,  DVDs ) and through digital distribution services both in the United States and
internationally. We also produce first-run syndicated shows for local markets that are broadcast on local broadcast television stations in the United States on a market-by-market basis. We currently distribute some of our television programs after
their initial broadcast, as well as older television programs from our library, to local broadcast television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market.       NBC Local Broadcast Television Stations       We own and operate 10 NBC-affiliated
local broadcast television stations that as of December 31, 2015 collectively reached 33 million U.S. television households, which represents approximately 27% of U.S. television households. In addition to broadcasting the NBC
network s national programming, our local broadcast television stations produce news, sports, public affairs and other programming that addresses local needs and acquire syndicated programming from other sources. The table below presents a
summary of the NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations that we own and operate.       

DMA Served (a)   
     
  Station  
      
  General Market Rank (b)   

Percentage of U.S. Television
Households (c)   

New York, NY   
     
  WNBC  

1  

6  
  %    
 
    Los Angeles, CA   
     
  KNBC  

2  

5  
  %    
 
    Chicago, IL   
     
  WMAQ  

3  

3  
  %    
 
    Philadelphia, PA   
     
  WCAU  

4  

3  
  %    
 
    Dallas-Fort Worth, TX   
     
  KXAS  

5  

2  
  %    
 
    San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CA   
     
  KNTV  

6  

2  
  %    
 
    Washington, D.C.   
     
  WRC  

7  

2  
  %    
 
    Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FL   
     
  WTVJ  

17  

1  
  %    
 
    San Diego, CA   
     
  KNSD  

27  

1  
  %    
 
    Hartford, CT   
     
  WVIT  

30  

1  
  %    

(a)  
     
    DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.      

Table of Contents  

(b)  
     
    General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the
2015-16 season.          

(c)  
     
    Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2015-16 season. The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach
under the Federal Communications Commission s ( FCC ) national television ownership cap limits. See  Legislation and Regulation   Broadcast Television   Ownership Limits   National Television Ownership. 
        Telemundo      Telemundo is a leading Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. Telemundo s operations include the Telemundo network,
its 17 owned local broadcast television stations and the NBC Universo national cable network.      The Telemundo network is a leading
Spanish-language broadcast television network featuring original telenovelas, movies, news, specials and sporting events. Telemundo develops original programming primarily through its production studio and also acquires the rights to content from
third parties. It holds the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup soccer through 2022 and the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for the NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast through the 2022-23 season as part of our
agreement with the NFL.       Telemundo Local Broadcast Television Stations    
  As of December 31, 2015, Telemundo owned 17 local broadcast television stations, including 16 local broadcast television stations affiliated
with the Telemundo network, which collectively reached approximately 59% of U.S. Hispanic television households as of December 31, 2015, and an independent television station in Puerto Rico. The table below presents a summary of these local
broadcast television stations.       

(a)  
     
    DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.      

(b)  
     
    Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 14.7 million U.S. Hispanic households as of December 31, 2015.

(c)  
     
    Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2015-16 season. The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience
reach under the FCC s national television ownership cap limits. See  Legislation and Regulation   Broadcast Television   Ownership Limits   National Television Ownership.       

(d)  
     
    Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.

Table of Contents  

    Filmed Entertainment       Our Filmed Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes both live-action and animated filmed entertainment worldwide, and it also develops, produces and licenses live stage plays.
     We produce films both on our own and jointly with other studios or production companies, as well as with other entities. Our films are
produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination and Focus Features names. Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own marketing and distribution companies. We also acquire distribution rights to films
produced by others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time. Our content consists of theatrical films, direct-to-video movies and our film library, which is comprised of more than
5,000 movies in a variety of genres.      We have entered into, and may continue to enter into, film cofinancing arrangements with third
parties, including both studio and nonstudio entities, to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions. These arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor.
Investors generally assume the full risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film.      The majority of our
produced and acquired films are initially distributed for exhibition in movie theaters. After their release in movie theaters, we sell and license our films through various methods. We distribute our films globally by selling them on DVD to retail
stores, rental kiosks and subscription by mail services and by selling them through digital distribution services and the video on demand services provided by multichannel video providers, including our Cable Communications segment. We also license
our films, including selections from our film library, to cable, broadcast and premium networks, to subscription video on demand services, and to video on demand and pay-per-view services. The number of films that we license through subscription
video on demand services is increasing as consumers continue to seek additional ways to view our content.       Theme Parks    
  Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. Universal Orlando includes
two theme parks, Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure, as well as CityWalk, a dining, retail and entertainment complex. Universal Orlando also features on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest.
Our Universal theme park in Hollywood, California consists primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood. We also are expanding our theme park business internationally, such as through NBCUniversal s acquisition of a 51% interest in Universal
Studios Japan in November 2015 and our plans to develop a Universal Studios theme park in Beijing, China along with a consortium of Chinese state owned companies. In addition, we license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other
intellectual property, and also provide other services, to third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Singapore theme park on Sentosa Island, Singapore, as well as to the Universal Studios Japan theme park. We also own a water park,
Wet  n Wild, in Orlando, Florida.      Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a substantial amount of intellectual property
from third parties for its themed elements in rides, attractions and merchandising.       Competition    
      All of our businesses operate in intensely
competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services, and entertainment, news and information products and services, to
consumers. Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape for all of our businesses by challenging existing business models and affecting consumer behavior.   

Table of Contents  

    Cable Communications       Competition for our video services consists primarily of direct broadcast satellite ( DBS ) providers, which have a national footprint and compete in all of our service areas, and phone companies with
fiber-based networks, which overlap more than 55% of our service areas and are continuing to expand the areas they serve. Our high-speed Internet services business primarily competes with phone companies with fiber-based networks that overlap more
than 60% of our service areas. Many of these competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for these services, individually and in bundles, comparable to what we offer.      There also continue to be new companies, some with significant financial resources, that offer services that potentially may compete on a larger scale with some or all of our cable services. In particular, Google,
which has launched high-speed Internet and video services in a limited number of areas in which we operate, has announced plans to expand in more areas, including in some of our significant markets. As Google expands to more areas, we expect it to
become a meaningful wireline competitor to our high-speed Internet and video services. Other companies continue to emerge that provide Internet streaming and downloading of video programming, some of which charge a nominal or no fee. Wireless
Internet services, such as 3G and 4G wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks, may compete with our video and high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as customers replace wireline phones with
mobile phones and Internet-based phone services such as Skype.      Video Services   
  We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:

DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer s premises

phone companies that have built and continue to build fiber-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which now overlap a substantial
portion of our service areas    

other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators    

satellite master antenna television ( SMATV ) systems that generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments    

online video distributors that offer online services and devices that enable Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other
video programming    
          Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies
intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new investment by certain phone companies in networks capable of distributing
video programming and rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video services. The FCC also has launched a rulemaking to classify certain online video distributors as multichannel video providers
under the FCC s rules and thereby provide them with certain regulatory benefits under the rules. See  Legislation and Regulation  below for additional information.       Direct Broadcast Satellite Providers       According to recent government and
industry reports, conventional medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to 33.5 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power satellites typically offer video services substantially similar to
our video services. DIRECTV, which was   

Table of Contents  

acquired by AT T in 2015, and DISH Network offer video services to substantially all U.S. households. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with certain phone companies in which the
DBS provider s video services are sold together with the phone company s high-speed Internet and voice services.       Phone
Companies       Certain phone companies, in particular AT T and Verizon, have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-based
networks that provide video, high-speed Internet and voice services, and in some cases have bundled with wireless phone services, in substantial portions of our service areas. These and other phone companies with fiber-based networks or digital
subscriber line ( DSL ) technology, such as CenturyLink, also may market video services provided by DBS providers in certain areas where they provide only high-speed Internet and voice services. AT T s acquisition of DIRECTV in
2015 created an even larger competitor to our cable services, which enables them to enhance their bundled offerings.       Other Wireline
Providers       Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits
franchising authorities to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies, including those that traditionally have not provided video services and have significant financial resources, have obtained cable franchises
and provide competing cable services. These and other cable systems offer cable services in some areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.   
   Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems       Our video services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer
to their subscribers both improved reception of local broadcast television stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. Some SMATV system operators also offer bundled services to residential and business subscribers.
      Online Video Services       Our video services also compete with the services of online video distributors that offer Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming. A number of companies also
have launched online video services that include both linear and on-demand programming and generally involve the offering of smaller packages of programming networks directly to customers over the Internet at prices lower than our traditional video
service package offerings, while some programming providers also offer programming directly to customers over the Internet. In most cases, these services charge no fee or a lower fee than our traditional video packages. Consumer electronic companies
that sell Internet-connected TVs or gaming consoles that provide a user interface for searching television and other programming over the Internet and offer links to various third-party Internet applications may also compete with our video services.
The success of these services could also adversely affect demand for other video services, such as our expanded digital video packages, premium networks, and our DVR and On Demand services.       Other       Our cable services also may compete for customers with other companies,
such as local broadcast television stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming, as well as video rental services and home entertainment and gaming products.      High-Speed Internet Services      We compete with a number of companies offering Internet
services, many of which have substantial resources, including:       

wireline phone companies    

Table of Contents  

Internet service providers    

wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service    

satellite broadband providers    

power companies    

municipal broadband networks    
          Some phone companies, such as AT T, CenturyLink, Frontier and Verizon, have
built and are continuing to build fiber-based network infrastructure deeper in their networks, which allows them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with traditional DSL technology, and are now offering these
higher-speed services in many of our service areas. DSL technology allows Internet access to be provided to customers over phone lines at data transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems, and certain companies that offer
DSL service have increased data transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled services to compete with our high-speed Internet services.      Google, which has launched a fiber-to-the-home network that provides high-speed Internet services in a limited number of areas in which we operate, has announced plans to expand in additional geographic areas,
including in some of our significant markets. As Google expands to more areas, we expect it to become a meaningful wireline competitor to our high-speed Internet and video services. Certain municipalities in our service areas are also building
fiber-based networks.      Various wireless companies are offering Internet services using a variety of network types, including 3G and 4G
wireless high-speed Internet networks and Wi-Fi networks. Some of these services are similar to ours. These networks work with devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets and mobile wireless routers, as well as wireless data cards. A number of
commercial venues, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, also offer Wi-Fi service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and other Internet access networks. The availability of these
wireless offerings could negatively impact the demand for our high-speed Internet services.      Voice Services   
  Our voice services compete with wireline phone companies, including incumbent local exchange carriers ( ILECs ), competitive local
exchange carriers ( CLECs ), wireless phone service providers and other Internet-based and VoIP service providers. Certain phone companies, such as the ILECs AT T and Verizon, have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding
customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources. In addition, we are increasingly competing with other phone service providers as
customers replace wireline phones with mobile phones and Internet-based phone services.      Business Services   
  Our business services primarily compete with a variety of phone companies, including ILECs and CLECs. These companies either operate their own
network infrastructure or rely on reselling all or part of another carrier s network. We also compete with satellite operators who offer video services to businesses.       NBCUniversal Segments       Cable Networks and Broadcast Television   
  Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for viewers  attention and audience
share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including cable, broadcast and premium networks, local broadcast television stations, home entertainment, pay-per-view and video on demand services, online activities, such as social
networking and viewing user-generated content,   

Table of Contents  

video games, and other forms of entertainment, news and information. Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations may compete for viewers 
attention with subscription video on demand services, some of which have their own high-quality original content.      Our cable networks,
broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the acquisition of programming and for on-air and creative talent with other cable and broadcast networks, local television stations and subscription video on
demand services. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such programming is significant.      Our cable networks compete with other cable networks and programming providers for carriage of their programming by multichannel video providers and subscription video on demand services. Our broadcast television
networks compete with the other broadcast networks in markets across the United States to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of broadcast network programming to
a nationwide audience.      In addition, our cable networks and broadcast television studio production operations compete with other
production companies and creators of content for the acquisition of story properties, for creative, performing and technical personnel, and for distribution of, and consumer interest in, their content.   
  Filmed Entertainment      Our filmed
entertainment business competes for audiences for its films and other entertainment content with other major studios and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment. Our competitive
position primarily depends on the number of films we produce, their distribution and marketing success and consumer response. Our filmed entertainment business also competes to obtain creative, performing and technical talent, including writers,
actors, directors and producers, as well as scripts for films. Our filmed entertainment business also competes with the other major studios and other producers of entertainment content for the exhibition of its films in theaters and for premium
network and digital distribution of its films.      Theme Parks      Our theme parks business competes with other multi-park entertainment companies. We also compete with other providers of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. In order to maintain the
competitiveness of our theme parks, we have invested and continue to invest in existing and new theme park attractions and infrastructure.       Advertising       Our cable communications business, cable networks, broadcast
television networks, and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the sale of advertising time with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as digital, radio and print media. The
willingness of advertisers to purchase advertising from us may be adversely affected by lower audience ratings at our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations. Declines in advertising revenue also
can be caused by increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and audience fragmentation and from the growing use of technologies such as DVRs and video on demand services, which give consumers greater flexibility to watch programming on
a time-delayed or on-demand basis or to fast-forward or skip advertisements within programming, and from subscription video on demand services.       Seasonality and Cyclicality        
  Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. See Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and refer to the  Seasonality and Cyclicality  discussion within that section for additional information.   

Table of Contents  

   Legislation and Regulation      The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the  Communications Act ), and FCC regulations and policies affect significant aspects of our businesses. Our businesses are also subject to other regulation by
federal, state, local and foreign authorities and to agreements we enter into with local cable franchising authorities. In addition, we must comply with the terms, conditions and commitments of the FCC Order that approved the NBCUniversal
transaction in 2011 (the  NBCUniversal Order ) and a consent decree entered into between us, the Department of Justice ( DOJ ) and five states (the  NBCUniversal Consent Decree ), which contain conditions and
commitments of varying duration, ranging from three to seven years after September 2011.      Legislators and regulators at all levels of
government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules or regulations, or interpretations of existing statutes, rules or regulations, or prescribe new ones, any of which may significantly affect our businesses. In
addition, the FCC and certain states are becoming more active in considering rulemakings and legislation, as well as in conducting inquiries and reviews, regarding our services. Any future legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative actions
may increase our costs or impose additional restrictions on our businesses, some of which may be significant. For example, in February 2015, the FCC adopted new  open Internet  regulations that reclassify broadband Internet access service
as a  telecommunications service  and subject it to certain common carrier regulations under Title II of the Communications Act. In addition, in February 2015, the FCC preempted certain state laws that had restricted municipalities from
operating municipally owned broadband networks. See  Cable Communications Segment   High Speed Internet Services  below. Congress also is expected to consider proposals to address communications issues, including whether it should
rewrite the entire Communications Act to account for changes in the communications marketplace, whether it should address the FCC s authority to implement or enforce open Internet regulations, and whether it should modify rules relating to
cable distribution of local broadcast television stations. We are unable to predict the effects of any of these or any other further regulatory or legislative requirements on our businesses.   
  The following paragraphs summarize material existing and potential future legal and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses, although
reference should be made to the Communications Act, FCC regulations, the NBCUniversal Order, the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, and other legislation and regulations for further information.       Cable Communications Segment            Video Services       Program Carriage   
  Cable operators and other multichannel video providers are prohibited from requiring a financial interest in, or exclusive distribution rights for,
a video programming network as a condition of carriage. FCC regulations, as well as the NBCUniversal Order, also prohibit us from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated video programming network to compete fairly by discriminating
against the network on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for its carriage. The FCC is considering proposals to further expand program carriage regulations that may be disadvantageous to us. We have been involved
in program carriage disputes at the FCC in the past and may be subject to complaints in the future.      Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent
     Cable operators are required to carry, without compensation, programming transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial
broadcast television stations. As an alternative to this  must-carry  requirement, local broadcast television stations may choose to negotiate with the cable operator for  retransmission consent,  under which the station gives up
its must-carry rights and instead seeks to negotiate a carriage   

Table of Contents  

agreement with the cable operator, which frequently will involve payments to the station. We currently pay certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for
the retransmission of the stations  broadcast programming to our video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to demands for increased payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. The FCC has
initiated a rulemaking to review aspects of these rules. For information on must-carry and retransmission consent issues relating to our broadcast television business, see  NBCUniversal Segments   Broadcast Television  below and refer
to the  Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent  discussion within that section.      Pricing and Packaging   
  In 2015, the FCC revised its rate regulations to create a presumption that all local communities are subject to effective competition and should no
longer be subject to rate regulation that limits prices cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation. That decision has been appealed in federal court. The FCC accepted a certification from a Massachusetts
franchising authority that demonstrated an absence of effective competition in a number of the communities we serve in Massachusetts and that will allow for continued rate regulation in those communities. All of the other areas we serve, except for
a relatively small number where we have a petition for effective competition still pending at the FCC, are covered by the FCC s presumption and are unregulated.      Cable Equipment      The Communications Act includes provisions aimed at promoting the
retail availability of set-top boxes and other equipment that can be used to receive digital video services. Prior to December 2015, multichannel video providers were prohibited from deploying set-top boxes that performed both channel navigation and
security functions, so most of our set-top boxes relied on a separate security device known as a CableCARD. Congress repealed this prohibition, so we may now deploy set-top boxes with integrated security. Congress also directed the FCC to establish
a working group to report on software-based security aimed at promoting the retail availability of video devices. In the wake of that report, which was issued in August 2015, some have proposed that the FCC replace the CableCARD requirements with
new technology mandates on multichannel video providers to enable retail video devices to work on any multichannel video provider s system. The Chairman of the FCC proposed such a technology mandate in January 2016, and announced that the FCC
plans to open a rulemaking to consider the proposal. If implemented, this proposal would impose substantial costs on us, impair our ability to innovate and have other significant adverse effects on our business.   
  Pole Attachments      The FCC regulates
the rates, terms and conditions that most pole-owning utility companies charge cable operators and telecommunications carriers, including broadband Internet access service providers such as us, for allowing attachments to their poles. States are
permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the rates, terms and conditions of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have generally followed the FCC s pole attachment rate
standards, which set rates for telecommunications service pole attachments to levels at or near the rates for cable service attachments. In November 2015, the FCC eliminated the ability of utility companies to justify higher rates for
telecommunication service pole attachments. Cable operators had requested this FCC action because the FCC s new open Internet regulations, as described below, reclassified Internet access service as a telecommunications service, which could
have allowed for higher rental rates to be applied to a majority of our pole attachments. The FCC s order ensuring that pole rates for telecommunications service attachments approximate the cable service pole rate is expected to be challenged
in court by the utility companies.      Franchising      Cable operators generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction
to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet   

Table of Contents  

service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions. Franchising authorities also may establish reasonable
requirements for public, educational and governmental access programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the
franchising process, including renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects are generally favorable, but cannot guarantee the future renewal of any
individual franchise.      Approximately half of the states in which we operate provide for statewide franchising or have simplified local
franchising requirements for new entrants. Some allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting
the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain states allow incumbent cable operators such as us to opt in to the new state franchise immediately or later when a competing state franchise has been issued, although even
in those states, incumbent cable operators may be required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new entrant s state franchise.       High-Speed Internet Services       We provide high-speed Internet services to our customers. Many of
these services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations described below, including open Internet regulations implemented by the FCC and certain common carrier regulations under Title II of the Communications Act. As an Internet service
provider ( ISP ), we are also subject to a requirement to implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.   
  Open Internet Regulations      In
February 2015, the FCC reclassified broadband Internet access service as a  telecommunications service  subject to new open Internet regulations and certain common carrier regulations under Title II of the Communications Act, including
requirements that ISPs  charges and practices for and in connection with broadband Internet access service be just, reasonable and not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory. However, the FCC also refrained from implementing a number of
utility-style regulations that might otherwise apply under Title II, such as rate regulation, tariffs and unbundling requirements.      The
new open Internet regulations bar ISPs from blocking access to lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices; prohibit ISPs from impairing or degrading lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, applications or services, or
impairing or degrading the use of non-harmful devices; prohibit ISPs from favoring lawful traffic from one provider of Internet content, applications or services (called an  edge provider ) over lawful traffic of another edge provider in
exchange for consideration (i.e., no  paid prioritization  establish a new  general conduct standard  that prohibits ISPs from unreasonably interfering with or unreasonably disadvantaging the ability of consumers to select,
access and use the lawful Internet content, applications, services or devices of their choosing or of edge providers to make lawful content, applications, services or devices available to consumers; and require ISPs to disclose information regarding
network management, performance and commercial terms of the service. In addition, interconnection arrangements, which govern how Internet traffic is exchanged between high-speed Internet networks and provide direct, dedicated interconnection
capacity to edge providers, will now be subject to FCC oversight under Title II of the Communications Act. All of these regulations are subject to FCC enforcement and could give rise to third-party claims for damages or equitable relief. These new
requirements could adversely affect our business, although the extent to which they do so will depend upon the manner in which the FCC interprets and enforces them. The FCC s new open Internet regulations have been appealed in federal court.
     States also may attempt to use the FCC s open Internet decision to justify imposing new regulations or taxes and fees on ISPs that
could adversely affect our business.   

Table of Contents  

   Separate and apart from the FCC s new open Internet regulations, we committed to be bound by the
FCC s original  open Internet  regulations adopted in 2010 as a condition of the NBCUniversal Order and the NBCUniversal Consent Decree until 2018, although we did not agree to be bound by any future open Internet regulations. As a
result, among other things, we cannot block access to lawful Internet content, applications, services or non-harmful devices or unreasonably discriminate in transmitting lawful Internet network traffic, although we may engage in reasonable network
management.      Municipally Owned Broadband Networks      A number of states have enacted laws that restrict or prohibit local municipalities from operating municipally owned broadband networks. A municipal broadband provider in Tennessee and a municipality in North
Carolina requested that the FCC preempt state laws that restrict their ability to provide broadband Internet access service, and in February 2015, the FCC preempted the Tennessee and North Carolina laws in most respects and expressed a willingness
to entertain similar preemption requests. The FCC s decision has been appealed in federal court.      Definition of Advanced
Telecommunications Capability      In January 2015, the FCC redefined what connection speeds and other service characteristics constitute
 advanced telecommunications capability,  increasing the downstream speed from 4 Mbps to 25 Mbps. The definition of  advanced telecommunications capability  has been used by the FCC in the past to determine whether broadband
Internet access services are being deployed to all Americans in a reasonable and timely manner, and if they are not being so deployed, the FCC may adopt new regulations that could conceivably accelerate deployment of such services. The FCC relied in
part on this authority to adopt its new open Internet regulations.      NBCUniversal Order/Consent Decree Conditions   
  The NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree include various conditions and commitments requiring us to expand our broadband service
areas, to continue to offer all of our broadband Internet access service speed tiers on a standalone basis at reasonable market-based prices, to maintain a broadband Internet access service of at least 12 Mbps downstream across most of our
footprint, and to avoid discrimination in how we treat  specialized services  (defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our broadband Internet access service, but not including our broadband Internet access
service, video services or voice services).       Voice Services       We provide voice services using interconnected VoIP technology. The FCC has adopted a number of regulations for providers of nontraditional voice services such as ours, including regulations relating to privacy of
customer proprietary network information, local number portability duties and benefits, disability access, E911, law enforcement assistance, outage reporting, rural call completion reporting, Universal Service Fund contribution obligations, domestic
discontinuance requirements and certain regulatory filing requirements. The FCC has not yet ruled on whether interconnected VoIP service should be classified as an  information service  or a  telecommunications service  under the
Communications Act. The classification determination is important because telecommunications services are regulated more extensively than information services. Unless and until the FCC definitively classifies interconnected VoIP service, state
regulatory commissions and legislatures will continue to investigate imposing regulatory requirements on our voice services, and the FCC s new open Internet regulations reclassifying Internet access as a telecommunications service may further
encourage state-level regulatory actions.      Voice Interconnection   
  Because the FCC has not determined the appropriate classification of our voice services, providers of VoIP services typically either secure CLEC
authorization or obtain interconnection to traditional wireline phone   

Table of Contents  

company networks by contracting with an existing CLEC, which has the right, as a telecommunications carrier, to request and obtain interconnection with the traditional wireline phone companies.
We have arranged for such interconnection rights through affiliated CLECs. If a regulatory or judicial authority were to deny our ability to interconnect through one of our affiliated CLECs, our ability to provide voice services and compete in the
area in question would be negatively impacted. The FCC regulates the arrangements by which telecommunications carriers compensate one another for exchanged traffic, and has affirmed the right of CLECs to collect intercarrier compensation when
providing interconnection for VoIP providers. In 2012, the FCC sought comment on petitions that raise issues concerning the interconnection obligations for VoIP providers. Further, a Massachusetts state commission is reviewing whether IP
interconnection agreements should be subject to regulation and other states could follow.      Universal Service   
  A federal program known as the Universal Service program generally requires telecommunications service providers to pay a fee based on revenue from
their services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low-income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care
providers. Some states also have analogous programs that support service in high-cost areas or to low-income consumers. The FCC has long considered implementing changes to the Universal Service program, such as changing the fee calculation from a
revenue-based formula to a per-user fee or per-connection fee, adopting a fee based on bandwidth, and expanding the services subject to the fee to include broadband Internet access services. In 2014, the FCC referred the question of how to reform
Universal Service fees to a joint federal and state commission, which was expected to make a recommendation in 2015, but has not yet done so.      The FCC recently has shifted its focus away from supporting traditional telephone service, and toward subsidizing broadband deployment. This shift could assist some of our competitors. For example, in 2014, the FCC
substantially revised the program that provides Universal Service support for services to schools and libraries to shift support from voice services to broadband services and the deployment of Wi-Fi networks.   
   NBCUniversal Segments        
   Cable Networks       Program Access   
  The Communications Act and FCC regulations (i.e., the  program access rules ) generally prevent cable networks affiliated with cable
operators from favoring cable operators over competing multichannel video programming distributors ( MVPDs ). The FCC is considering whether certain online video distributors ( OVDs ) should be classified as MVPDs, which would
give them the ability to bring complaints under the program access rules.      The FCC and Congress also have considered proposals that
would require companies that own multiple cable networks to make each of their networks available individually when negotiating distribution agreements with multichannel video providers and potentially with OVDs. We currently offer our cable
networks both on a bundled basis and, when requested, individually.      Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order, MVPDs can invoke
commercial arbitration for access in certain circumstances to our cable networks and broadcast television networks, including our regional sports networks. In addition, under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to
make certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide OVDs in certain circumstances. For further discussion of these conditions, see  Broadcast Television  below and refer to
the  Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent  and  Internet Distribution  discussions within that section.   

Table of Contents  

   Children s Programming      Under federal regulations, the amount of commercial content that may be shown on cable networks, broadcast networks and broadcast television stations during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily
for an audience of children under 13 years of age is limited, and certain television station programming must serve the educational and informational needs of children under 17 years of age. In addition, the NBCUniversal Order includes certain
commitments and conditions related to children s television and advertising directed at children.       Broadcast Television    
  Licensing      Local broadcast
television stations may be operated only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license will serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants broadcast television station licenses for
specific periods of time, which may be renewed with or without conditions. Substantially all of our broadcast television station licenses have pending applications for renewal, although our stations  authority to operate is automatically
extended while a renewal application is under review. Several of these applications have been opposed by third parties, and other applications are pending. Although our licenses have been renewed in the past, there can be no assurance that we will
always obtain them.      Ownership Limits      FCC regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have  attributable interests  above specific ownership levels in local television stations and place limitations on ownership of other
specified mass media entities, such as limits on the cross-ownership of broadcast stations and newspapers in the same market. The FCC is reviewing the ownership regulations detailed below in 2016.   
   Local Television Ownership    
  Under FCC regulations, a licensee generally may own up to two broadcast television stations in the same DMA, as long as at least one of the stations
is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share and there are at least eight independently owned and operating full-power broadcast television stations in the market. Without regard to the number of remaining
independently owned television stations, ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA is permitted so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap.   
   National Television Ownership    
  The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the number of broadcast television stations one entity may own or control nationally. No entity may
have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. Our owned television station reach does not exceed this limit. The FCC is considering eliminating a rule
that currently affords UHF stations (channels 14 and above) a 50% discount in calculating the extent of an individual station owner s holdings under the national cap, which if adopted, would place us closer to the national cap and limit our
flexibility to acquire stations in the future.       Foreign Ownership    
  The Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership, although the
limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to be in the public interest. For many decades the FCC declined to waive the 25% indirect limit in broadcast transactions, but since 2013, it has been willing to consider such waiver
requests.   

Table of Contents  

    Dual Network Rule       The four major broadcast television networks   ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC   are prohibited from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.   
  Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent   
  Every three years, each commercial television station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must-carry or retransmission consent. A
similar regulatory scheme applies to satellite providers. For the current period, which ends on December 31, 2017, all of our owned NBC broadcast television stations and our owned Telemundo broadcast television stations elected retransmission
consent.      In enacting the STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014, Congress modified certain aspects of the compulsory copyright licenses
under which satellite providers and cable operators retransmit broadcast stations. As directed by this legislation, the FCC is reviewing aspects of the requirement that commercial television stations and multichannel video providers negotiate
retransmission consent agreements in good faith. Congress also is considering legislation that would eliminate or modify the must-carry and retransmission consent regime. Under conditions imposed in the NBCUniversal Order, multichannel video
providers may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes regarding carriage of our owned local broadcast television stations.   
  Internet Distribution      The
NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree establish certain obligations and restraints concerning distribution of our content online. We must make available certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment
programming to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances, and they may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes over access to such programming. We also must distribute programming via nbc.com that is generally equivalent
to the programming that we distributed via nbc.com as of January 1, 2011, on generally equivalent price, terms and conditions, so long as at least one of the other major broadcast networks continues to distribute its programming in a similar
fashion. We are one of three broadcast network owners of Hulu, but we have no voting rights or board representation. We have entered into renewal license agreements with Hulu on substantially the same terms as its other broadcast network owners.
     Online Video Distributors      The FCC is considering classifying certain online video distributors that offer multiple linear video programming networks to customers with a broadband Internet connection as multichannel video providers under FCC
rules to ensure that OVDs have program access rights to video programming from vertically integrated cable programmers and the right to force local television broadcast stations to negotiate to license their content. The FCC also has proposed
potentially excusing these entities from all or some of the regulatory obligations applicable to current multichannel video providers. If adopted, these proposals would increase our program access obligations and raise complicated issues regarding
the licensing of our broadcast programming.      Indecency      A federal statute and FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material on television stations at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. From time to time, we
have received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on our owned local broadcast television stations included indecent or profane material.   
   Filmed Entertainment       Our filmed
entertainment business is subject to  trade practice laws  in effect in 25 states and Puerto Rico relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. In countries outside the United States, a variety of existing or contemplated laws
and regulations may affect our ability to distribute and license motion picture and   

Table of Contents  

television products, as well as consumer merchandise products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is
regulated under various international agreements.       Theme Parks       Our theme parks are subject to various regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health,
sanitation, safety and fire standards, as well as liquor licenses.       Other Areas of Regulation    
       Intellectual Property    
  Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other proprietary rights laws of the United States and other countries help
protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other platforms presents challenges for our cable networks, broadcast
television and filmed entertainment businesses. The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the
reproduction, viewing, sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content s security features and copyrighted status, interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our
content. The extent of copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial. Modifications to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell
our programming.      While many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve,
as do technologies used to evade these laws. We have actively engaged in the enforcement of our intellectual property rights and likely will continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content. The repeal of laws intended to combat
piracy and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our
intellectual property rights, which could negatively impact their value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights.   
  Copyright laws also require that we contribute a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool in exchange for retransmitting
copyrighted material in broadcast signals pursuant to a compulsory license and that we pay standard industry licensing fees for the public performance of music in the programs we distribute, such as local advertising and local origination
programming on our cable systems, as well as in the content we create. The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, while the royalties we contribute to the
copyright royalty pool for broadcast signals can be challenged by copyright owners in annual audits, and we cannot predict what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.   
  There has been litigation related to a number of online entities that stream our broadcast television content online without the consent of, or
compensation to, NBC or its affiliates. In 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that one such entity, Aereo, violated the broadcasters  exclusive right to perform their copyrighted works publicly. Subsequently, Aereo sought to operate as a cable
system under the Copyright Act. Although the U.S. Copyright Office rejected its application for a compulsory copyright license, other companies continue to seek legislation or court rulings to obtain a compulsory license to stream broadcast
programming online. Along with other major broadcasters, we also have brought a suit against a multichannel video provider to challenge the commercial-skipping functionality in its DVR. In addition, the FCC is considering whether to classify certain
OVDs as multichannel video providers, giving them the right to negotiate for   

Table of Contents  

retransmission consent with local broadcast television stations, and subjecting such negotiations to the good-faith requirements under the FCC s rules. Any such reclassification could
influence the U.S. Copyright Office to extend the compulsory license to OVDs.       Privacy and Data Security Regulation    
  The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers  personally
identifiable information by cable operators, except for rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service, and responding to legal requests. We are also subject to various state and federal regulations that provide
privacy protections for customer proprietary network information ( CPNI ) related to our voice services. The FCC expects broadband Internet access service providers such as us to take reasonable, good faith steps to comply with existing
statutory requirements to protect broadband CPNI and plans to propose new privacy and data security rules for broadband ISPs in 2016. The FCC has recently imposed substantial civil penalties and remediation obligations on several companies for
alleged privacy and data security violations. In 2015, Comcast entered into a settlement with a California regulatory commission regarding Comcast s inadvertent disclosure of customer telephone numbers for which customers had requested
non-published or non-listed status.      The FTC exercises authority over privacy protections generally, using its existing authority over
unfair and deceptive acts or practices to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other information relating to consumers. It also has undertaken numerous enforcement actions against parties that do not
provide sufficient security protections against the loss or unauthorized disclosure of this type of information. We also are subject to stringent data security and data retention requirements on website operators and online services that are
directed to children under 13 years of age, or that knowingly collect or post personal information from children under 13 years of age. Other privacy-oriented laws have been extended by courts to online video providers and are increasingly being
used in privacy lawsuits, including class actions, against providers of video materials online.      We are also subject to state and
federal  do not call  laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited commercial emails, as well as FCC regulations relating to automated telemarketing calls, texts or SMS messages. The FTC and state attorneys
general also have initiated efforts to increase and enforce transparency requirements about the collection and use of consumer information, even in an aggregated, non-customer-identifiable form, which may require ongoing review of new and rapidly
evolving technologies and methods for delivering content and advertising to ensure that appropriate notice is given to consumers and consent is obtained where required.      We are also subject to state and federal laws and regulations regarding data security that primarily apply to sensitive personal information that could be used to commit identity theft. Most states have security
breach notification laws that generally require a business to give notice to consumers and government agencies when certain information has been disclosed due to a security breach, and the FCC has adopted security breach rules for voice services.
Several states have also enacted general data security requirements to safeguard consumer information, including the proper disposal of consumer information.      The National Institute of Standards and Technology, in cooperation with other federal agencies and owners and operators of U.S. critical infrastructure, including us, have developed a voluntary framework that
provides a prioritized, flexible, repeatable, performance-based and cost-effective approach to cybersecurity risk. It is a compendium of existing cross-sector cyber-defense processes, practices and protocols that can help companies identify, assess
and manage their cyber risks and vulnerabilities, and several government agencies have encouraged compliance with this framework. Additionally, in December 2015, Congress enacted the Cybersecurity Act of 2015, which is intended to encourage and
facilitate the sharing of security threat and defensive measure information with government agencies and other companies, in order to strengthen the   

Table of Contents  

country s overall cybersecurity protections. Finally, there are pending legislative proposals that could impose new requirements on owners and operators of critical infrastructure, including
us, and the FCC is considering expanding its cybersecurity guidelines or adopting new cybersecurity requirements.       FCC Spectrum Auction
      Congress has authorized the FCC to conduct an auction to repurpose some broadcast spectrum to mobile broadband use. In this auction,
licensees of full-power and Class A television stations have the opportunity to sell some or all of their spectrum rights in exchange for cash. TV stations that do not voluntarily sell their spectrum rights may be assigned new channels on which
to operate, but the FCC must make  all reasonable efforts  to preserve those stations  over-the-air coverage areas and populations served, and to reimburse them for reasonable relocation costs (subject to an aggregate limit of $1.75
billion).      NBCUniversal has submitted applications with the FCC indicating its potential interest in selling broadcast spectrum rights.
Potential bidders for the repurposed mobile broadband spectrum licenses must file their applications with the FCC by February 10, 2016. We expect to submit an application to be a potential buyer of those new licenses. Bidding in the auction is
expected to begin in the second quarter of 2016. Filing an application in the auction does not create any obligation to sell, bid on, or buy spectrum. We cannot predict whether NBCUniversal will sell any of its broadcast spectrum rights, whether we
will bid for or buy any of the new mobile broadband licenses, or what the size of any proceeds or costs may be (although any such amounts may be significant).       State and Local Taxes       Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing,
through both legislative and administrative channels, new or additional taxes or fees on, or limiting or eliminating incentives or credits earned or monetized by, the businesses operated by the Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, or
imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes, fees, incentives or credits are earned or monetized. These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on the
businesses operated or services provided by the Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments. In some situations, DBS and other competitors that deliver their services over a high-speed Internet connection do not face similar state tax and fee
burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar or limit states from imposing taxes on these DBS providers or other competitors that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay. Congress may not extend the
Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits most states and localities from imposing taxes on Internet access charges, but expires in October 2016. Additionally, the FCC s reclassification of broadband Internet access services as Title II
telecommunications services may cause or allow, directly or indirectly, some states and localities to impose additional taxes and fees on our high-speed Internet business.       Environmental Matters       Certain of our business operations are subject to environmental laws and
regulations since they involve air emissions, wastewater discharges and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances. Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal
sanctions, third-party claims or other costs or liabilities. As disclosed in Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  we recently settled a matter relating to certain of our waste disposal policies, procedures and practices in California.
     Environmental requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new regulations could impact our operations or
costs. For example, climate change regulation, such as proposed greenhouse gas emissions limits or cap and trade programs, could result in an increase in the cost of electricity, which is a significant component of our operational costs at some
locations.   

Table of Contents  

    Other Regulations       Federal regulators actively regulate other aspects of our businesses, including accessibility to our cable, broadcast and voice services for people with disabilities, customer service standards, inside wiring,
leased access, loudness of commercial advertisements, advertising, Emergency Alert System, equal employment opportunity, lottery programming, recordkeeping and public file access requirements, regulatory fees and technical standards relating to the
operation of cable systems and television stations. We are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in us having to pay fines to the agency or being subject to other sanctions. We also are subject to various
international regulations, including those with respect to television broadcasting, programming and advertising.      Employees   
  As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 153,000 full-time and part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 88,000 and 53,000
were associated with our cable communications business and our NBCUniversal businesses, respectively. We also use freelance and temporary employees in the normal course of our business.      Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements      The SEC encourages companies to disclose
forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial
performance. In some cases, you can identify these so-called  forward-looking statements  by words such as  may,   will,   should,   expects,   believes,   estimates, 
 potential,  or  continue,  or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should be aware that these statements are only our predictions. In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors,
including the risks and uncertainties listed in  Risk Factors  and in other reports we file with the SEC.      Additionally, we
operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. This environment is affected by government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and
services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the ability to develop and protect intellectual property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of any
of such factors, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.        Item 1A: Risk Factors       Our businesses currently face
a wide range of competition, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively.       All of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and
services and entertainment, news and information content to consumers. Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape and influencing consumer behavior, which is discussed in the risk factor immediately
below in  Changes in consumer behavior driven by alternative methods for viewing content may adversely affect our businesses and challenge existing business models.    

Table of Contents  

   Competition for the cable services we offer consists primarily of companies that typically offer
features, pricing and packaging for services comparable to our video, high-speed Internet and voice services, such as DBS providers and phone companies with fiber-based networks. In 2015, AT T, our largest phone company competitor, acquired
DirecTV, the nation s largest DBS provider, which created an even larger competitor.      Wireless Internet services, such as 4G
wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks, and devices such as wireless data cards, tablets and smartphones, and mobile wireless routers that connect to such devices, may compete with our high-speed Internet services. Our voice services
continue to face increased competition from wireless and Internet-based phone services as more consumers choose to replace their traditional wireline phone service with these phone services.   
  There also continue to be new entrants, some with significant financial resources, that potentially may compete with our cable services. In
particular, Google, which has launched high-speed Internet and video services in a limited number of areas, has announced plans to expand in more areas, including in some of our significant markets. As Google expands to more areas, we expect it to
become a meaningful wireline competitor to our high-speed Internet and video services. In addition, some local municipalities are launching their own fiber-based high-speed Internet services. Companies that provide subscription video on demand
services over the Internet or the ability to download video programming continue to gain consumer acceptance. There can be no assurance that these or other newer entrants will not continue to launch similar services.   
  Our cable communications business continues to seek ways enhance the value of our cable services network, such as by growing our high-speed
Internet and business services businesses and by launching additional services, such as our home security and automation services. There can be no assurance that we can execute on these and other initiatives in a manner sufficient to grow or
maintain our Cable Communications segment revenue, maintain our Cable Communications segment operating margin, or to compete successfully in the future.      In addition, some of our phone company competitors have their own wireless facilities and may expand their service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings. Because we do not have our own wireless
facilities, our inability to provide a competitive wireless product as part of our bundled cable services offering could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, business and results of operations.   
  Each of NBCUniversal s businesses also faces substantial and increasing competition from providers of similar types of content, as well as
from other forms of entertainment and recreational activities. NBCUniversal must compete to obtain talent, programming and other resources required in operating these businesses.   
  All of our businesses  ability to compete effectively depends on our perceived image and reputation among our various constituencies,
including our customers, consumers, advertisers, investors and government authorities. Our ability to compete may be negatively affected if we do not provide our customers with a satisfactory customer experience. There can be no assurance that we
will be able to compete effectively against existing or new competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on our businesses. For a more detailed description of the competition facing our businesses, see Item 1: Business and
refer to the  Competition  discussion within that section.       Changes in consumer behavior driven by alternative methods for
viewing content may adversely affect our businesses and challenge existing business models.       Alternative products and services for
the distribution, sale and viewing of content have been, and will likely continue to be, developed that further increase the number of competitors that all our businesses face and challenge existing business models. These products and services are
also driving changes in consumer behavior as consumers seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and access communications services.   

Table of Contents  

   While our cable communications business is attempting to adapt to changing consumer behaviors, for
example, by deploying our X1 platform and Cloud DVR technology, products and services have emerged that compete with our video services, including those that offer subscription video on demand services or the ability to download content that can be
viewed on television sets, computers, smartphones and tablets. Some of these products and services charge no fee or a lower fee than our traditional video packages for access to their content, which adversely affects demand for our video services,
including for expanded digital video packages, premium networks, and our DVR and On Demand services.      The increased availability of
these products and services, including some that also offer high-quality original video programming that is exclusive to that service, have contributed to an increased number of entertainment choices available to consumers, which intensifies
audience fragmentation. Additionally, the increased availability of DVRs and cloud-based recording services and video on demand services reduces the viewing of content through traditional linear television distribution outlets. Reduced viewing of
our content through traditional linear television distribution outlets has caused and will likely continue to cause audience ratings declines for NBCUniversal s linear television content and may adversely affect the price and amount of
advertising that advertisers are willing to purchase from us and the amount NBCUniversal receives for distribution of its content.   
  Additionally, several companies now offer smaller packages of channels directly to customers over the Internet at price points lower than our
standard packages, which could adversely affect demand for our video services and reduce the subscription revenue that our cable networks or broadcast television businesses receive from multichannel video providers. These smaller packages could also
cause our cable communications business to offer more customized programming packages that may be less profitable.      The success of any
of these ongoing and future developments or our failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to emerging competitors or changes in consumer behavior, including among younger consumers, could have an adverse effect on our competitive position,
businesses and results of operations.       A decline in advertisers  expenditures or changes in advertising markets could negatively
impact our businesses.       Our cable communications, cable networks and broadcast television businesses compete for the sale of
advertising time with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as radio, print and, increasingly, digital media. We derive substantial revenue from the sale of advertising, and a decline in
expenditures by advertisers, including through traditional linear television distribution models, could negatively impact our results of operations. Declines can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, increased
competition for the leisure time of audiences and audience fragmentation, by the growing use of new technologies, or the economy in general. In addition, advertisers  willingness to purchase advertising from us may be adversely affected by
lower audience ratings, which some of our networks have experienced and likely will continue to experience. Advertising sales and rates also are dependent on audience measurement methodologies and could be negatively affected if methodologies do not
accurately reflect actual viewership levels. For example, certain methods of viewing content, such as delayed viewing on DVRs or viewing content online, might not be counted in audience measurements or may generate less, if any, revenue than
traditional distribution methods, which could have an adverse effect on our advertising revenue. Reductions in advertisers  expenditures could adversely affect our revenue and businesses.   
   Our businesses depend on keeping pace with technological developments.    
  Our success is, to a large extent, dependent on our ability to acquire, develop, adopt and leverage new and existing technologies, and our
competitors  use of certain types of technology and equipment may provide   

Table of Contents  

them with a competitive advantage. For example, some companies and municipalities are building advanced fiber-based networks that provide very fast Internet access speeds, and wireless Internet
technologies continue to evolve rapidly to allow for greater speed and reliability. We expect other advances in communications technology to occur in the future. If we choose technology or equipment that is not as effective or attractive to
consumers as that employed by our competitors, if we fail to employ technologies desired by consumers before our competitors do so, or if we fail to execute effectively on our technology initiatives, our businesses and results of operations could be
adversely affected. We also will continue to incur additional costs as we execute our technology initiatives, such as the deployment of DOCSIS 3.1, X1 set-top boxes, wireless gateways and Cloud DVR technology, and there can be no assurance that we
can execute on these and other initiatives in a manner sufficient to grow or maintain our revenue or to compete successfully in the future. We also may incur increased costs if changes in the products and services that our competitors offer require
that we offer certain of our existing services or enhancements at a lower or no cost to our customers or that we make additional research and development expenditures.       We are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities, which may impose additional costs and restrictions on our businesses.    
  Federal, state and local governments extensively regulate the video and voice services industry, and more recently, Internet services. We expect
that legislative enactments, court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify, and in some cases may adversely affect, the rights and obligations of cable operators and other entities under the Communications Act and other laws. Our
broadcast television business is also highly regulated by federal laws and regulations. Our cable networks, filmed entertainment and theme parks businesses are also subject to various other laws and regulations at the international, federal, state
and local levels, including laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, which have become more stringent over time, and the safety of consumer products and theme park operations. In addition, we are subject to the NBCUniversal Order
and the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, which have imposed numerous conditions on our businesses relating to the treatment of competitors and other matters. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could result in
administrative enforcement actions, fines, and civil and criminal liability. For a more extensive discussion of the significant risks associated with the regulation of our businesses, see Item 1, Business and refer to the  Legislation and
Regulation  discussion within that section.       Changes to existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or
adoption of new ones, could have an adverse effect on our businesses.       Legislators and regulators at all levels of government
frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or prescribe new ones, which may significantly affect our businesses. In addition, the FCC and certain states are becoming more
active in considering rulemakings and legislation, as well as in conducting inquiries and reviews, regarding our services. Any future legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative actions may increase our costs or impose additional
restrictions on our businesses, some of which may be significant. For example, as more fully discussed in Item 1, Business    Legislation and Regulation,  in 2015, the FCC adopted new open Internet regulations that reclassify
broadband Internet access service as a  telecommunications service,  making it subject to certain common carriage regulations under Title II of the Communications Act. This change could have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations. In addition, in 2015, the FCC adopted an order that preempted certain state laws that had restricted municipalities from operating municipally owned broadband networks. The FCC is also considering the appropriate regulatory
framework for VoIP service, including whether that service should be regulated under Title II. Accordingly, the legal and regulatory environment applicable to our businesses continues to intensify. Any changes to the legal and regulatory framework
applicable to any of our services or businesses could have a negative impact on our businesses and results of operations.   

Table of Contents  

    Programming expenses for our video services are increasing, which could adversely affect our Cable
Communications segment s video business.       We expect programming expenses for our video services to continue to be our Cable
Communications segment s largest single expense item and to increase in the foreseeable future. The multichannel video provider industry has experienced continued increases in the cost of programming, especially sports programming, which we
expect will continue for the foreseeable future. Our programming expenses may also increase as we add programming to our video services or distribute existing programming to more of our customers or through additional delivery platforms, such as On
Demand or streaming services. Additionally, in the past few years, we have begun paying certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast network programming to our video services
customers; we expect to continue to be subject to increasing demands for payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. These market factors may be exacerbated by increased consolidation in the media industry, which may
further increase our programming expenses. If we are unable to raise our customers  rates or offset programming cost increases through the sale of additional services, the increasing cost of programming could have an adverse effect on our Cable
Communications segment s results of operations. Moreover, as our contracts with content providers expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms or that they will be renewed at all, in which case we may be
unable to provide such content as part of our video services, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected.   
   NBCUniversal s success depends on consumer acceptance of its content, and its businesses may be adversely affected if its content fails to
achieve sufficient consumer acceptance or the costs to create or acquire content increase.       Most of NBCUniversal s businesses
create and acquire media and entertainment content, the success of which depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of these businesses depends on our ability to consistently create,
acquire, market and distribute cable network and broadcast television programming, filmed entertainment, theme park attractions and other content that meet the changing preferences of the broad domestic and international consumer market. We have
invested, and will continue to invest, substantial amounts in our content, including in the production of original content on our cable networks and broadcast television networks, in our films and for theme park attractions, before learning the
extent to which it would earn consumer acceptance.      We also obtain a significant portion of our content from third parties, such as
movie studios, television production companies, sports organizations and other suppliers. Competition for popular content, particularly for sports programming, is intense, and we may have to increase the price we are willing to pay or be outbid by
our competitors for popular content. Entering into or renewing contracts for such programming rights or acquiring additional rights may result in significantly increased costs. Particularly with respect to long-term contracts for sports programming
rights, our results of operations and cash flows over the term of a contract depend on a number of factors, including the strength of the advertising market, our audience size, and the ability to secure distribution from and impose surcharges or
obtain carriage on, multichannel video providers for the content and the timing and amount of our rights payments. There can be no assurance that revenue from these contracts will exceed our costs for the rights, as well as the other costs of
producing and distributing the programming. If our content does not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, or if we cannot obtain or retain rights to popular content on acceptable terms, or at all, our businesses may be adversely affected.
      The loss of NBCUniversal s programming distribution agreements, or the renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms,
could adversely affect its businesses.       Our cable networks depend on their ability to secure and maintain distribution agreements
with multichannel video providers. Our broadcast television networks depend on their ability to secure and maintain network affiliation agreements with third-party local broadcast television stations in the markets where we do not own the affiliated
local broadcast television station. In addition, every three years, each of our owned local broadcast television stations must elect, with respect to its retransmission by multichannel video providers within its

Table of Contents  

DMA, either  must-carry  status, in which the distributor s carriage of the station is mandatory and does not generate any compensation for the local station, or
 retransmission consent,  in which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage and instead seeks to negotiate the terms and conditions of carriage with the distributor, including the amount of compensation, if any, paid to the
station by such distributor. All of our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations have elected retransmission consent through December 31, 2017. Increasingly, our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment
businesses have entered into agreements to license their prior season and library content on other distribution platforms, including subscription video on demand services, and some multichannel video providers are offering smaller packages of
channels as part of their streaming and linear television programming packages. In addition, certain online entities may stream our broadcast television content online without our consent and without paying any compensation to us. As a result, there
can be no assurance that any of our distribution agreements will be renewed in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. The loss of any of these agreements, or the renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms, could reduce our distribution
revenue and the reach of our television programming and its attractiveness to advertisers, which in turn could adversely affect our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses.   
   We rely on network and information systems and other technologies, as well as key properties, and a disruption, cyber attack, failure or
destruction of such networks, systems, technologies or properties may disrupt our businesses.       Network and information systems and
other technologies, including those related to our network management, customer service operations and programming delivery, are critical to our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, including those caused by us or by
third parties, such as computer hackings, cyber attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any
combination of the foregoing, or power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other similar events, could result in a degradation or disruption of our services, excessive call volume to call centers or damage to our equipment, data and
properties. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future, and any such events could have an adverse effect on
our results of operations.      In addition, we may obtain certain confidential, proprietary and personal information about our customers,
personnel and vendors, and may provide this information to third parties, in connection with our business. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk that this information may be compromised.
Any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems, including customer, personnel and vendor data, could damage our reputation
and require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach, and could cause regulators to impose fines or other remedies for failure to comply with relevant customer privacy rules.   
  The risk of these systems-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify in many lines of business, and our lines of
business may be at a disproportionately heightened risk of these events occurring, due to the nature of our businesses and the fact that we maintain certain information necessary to conduct our business in digital form stored on cloud servers. In
the ordinary course of our business, there are frequent attempts to cause such systems-related events and security breaches, and we have experienced a few minor systems-related events that, to date, have not resulted in any significant degradation
or disruption to our network or information systems or our services or operations. While we develop and maintain systems, and operate a comprehensive security program, seeking to prevent systems-related events and security breaches from occurring,
the development, maintenance and operation of these systems and programs is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite any efforts to
prevent these events and security breaches,   

Table of Contents  

there can be no assurance that they will not occur in the future or will not have an adverse effect on our businesses. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance we maintain against losses
resulting from any such events or security breaches likely would not be sufficient to cover our losses or otherwise adequately compensate us for any disruptions to our business that may result, and the occurrence of any such events or security
breaches could have an adverse effect on our business.       We may be unable to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational
support.       We depend on third-party vendors to supply us with a significant amount of the hardware, software and operational support
necessary to provide certain of our services. Some of these vendors represent our primary source of supply or grant us the right to incorporate their intellectual property into some of our hardware and software products. While we actively monitor
the operations and financial condition of key vendors in an attempt to detect any potential difficulties, there can be no assurance that we would timely identify any operating or financial difficulties associated with these vendors or that we could
effectively mitigate our risks with respect to any such difficulties. If any of these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, if our demand exceeds their capacity or if they are otherwise unable to meet our specifications or provide
the equipment or services we need in a timely manner or at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services may be adversely affected.       Weak economic conditions may have a negative impact on our businesses.       A substantial portion
of our revenue comes from customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. Weak economic conditions could adversely affect demand for any of our products and services and have a negative impact on our results of
operations. For example, customers may reduce the level of cable services to which they subscribe, or may discontinue subscribing to one or more of our cable services. This risk may be increased by the expanded availability of free or lower cost
competitive services, such as subscription video on demand services, or substitute services for our high-speed Internet and voice services, such as mobile phones, smartphones and Wi-Fi networks. Weak economic conditions also may have a negative
impact on our advertising revenue, the performance of our films and home entertainment releases, and attendance and spending in our theme parks business. Weak economic conditions and turmoil in the global financial markets may also impair the
ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations to us, and any disruption in the global financial markets may affect our ability to obtain financing, including refinancing any existing debt, on acceptable terms.   
   Our businesses depend on using and protecting certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of
others.       We rely on our intellectual property, such as patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and
other agreements with our vendors and other third parties, to use various technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims of intellectual property infringement
by third parties could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or
from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted. We may need to change our business practices if any of these events occur, which may limit our ability to compete effectively and could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management s attention and resources away from our businesses. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain or
continue to obtain licenses from our vendors and other third parties on reasonable terms, our businesses could be adversely affected.   
  In addition, intellectual property constitutes a significant part of the value of NBCUniversal s businesses, and its success is highly
dependent on protecting intellectual property rights in the content it creates or acquires against third-party misappropriation, reproduction or infringement. The unauthorized reproduction,
dis-  

Table of Contents  

tribution or display of copyrighted material negatively affects our ability to generate revenue from the legitimate sale of our content, as well as from the sale of advertising in connection with
our content, and increases our costs due to our active enforcement of our intellectual property rights. For example, NBCUniversal has brought a suit against a multichannel video provider to challenge the commercial-skipping functionality in its DVR.
Additionally, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress that seems intended to legitimize the unauthorized online streaming of local broadcast content. We cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted or how any such legislation
would ultimately affect our businesses.      Piracy and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier, and the enforcement of
intellectual property rights more challenging, by technological advances allowing the conversion of programming, films and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high-quality unauthorized
copies. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution on DVDs, peer-to-peer computer networks and other platforms continues to present challenges for our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed
entertainment businesses. While piracy is a challenge in the United States, it is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack developed copyright laws, effective enforcement of copyright laws and technical protective measures like
those in effect in the United States. If any U.S. or international laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property rights are repealed or weakened or are not adequately enforced, or if the legal system fails to adapt to new
technologies that facilitate piracy, we may be unable to effectively protect our rights, and the value of our intellectual property may be negatively impacted and our costs of enforcing our rights may increase. See Item 1, Business and refer to
the  Legislation and Regulation   Other Areas of Regulation   Intellectual Property  discussion for additional information.       Acquisitions and other strategic initiatives present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that we had contemplated.    
  From time to time, we make acquisitions and investments and may pursue other strategic initiatives, including, for example, with respect to a
wireless strategy. In connection with such acquisitions and strategic initiatives, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty incorporating an acquired or new line of business, disrupt relationships
with current and new employees, customers and vendors, incur significant debt, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions or initiatives. Additionally, regulatory agencies, such as the FCC or DOJ, may impose restrictions on the
operation of our businesses as a result of our seeking regulatory approvals for any significant acquisitions and strategic initiatives. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our businesses.   
   Labor disputes, whether involving employees or sports organizations, may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our businesses.
      Many of NBCUniversal s employees, including writers, directors, actors, technical and production personnel and others, as well
as some of our on-air and creative talent and cable communications  employees, are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. Most of NBCUniversal s collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we
may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. If we are unable to reach agreement with a labor union before the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement, our employees who were covered by that agreement may
have a right to strike or take other actions that could adversely affect us, which could disrupt our operations and reduce our revenue, and the resolution of any disputes may increase our costs. There can be no assurance that we will renew our
collective bargaining agreements as they expire or that we can renew them on favorable terms or without any work stoppages.      In
addition, our cable networks and broadcast television networks have programming rights agreements of varying scope and duration with various sports organizations to broadcast and produce sporting events, including certain NFL, NHL, NBA and MLB
games. Labor disputes in these and other sports organizations could have an adverse effect on our businesses.   

Table of Contents  

    The loss of key management personnel or popular on-air and creative talent could have an adverse
effect on our businesses.       We rely on certain key management personnel in the operation of our businesses. While we maintain
long-term and emergency transition plans for key management personnel and believe we could either identify internal candidates or attract outside candidates to fill any vacancy created by the loss of any key management personnel, the loss of one or
more of our key management personnel could have a negative impact on our businesses. In addition, our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses depend on the abilities and expertise of our on-air and creative talent.
If we fail to retain our on-air or creative talent, if the costs to retain such talent increase materially, if we need to make significant termination payments, or if these individuals lose their current appeal, our businesses could be adversely
affected.       We face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our businesses.    
  We, primarily through NBCUniversal, operate our businesses worldwide. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including global
financial market turmoil, economic volatility and the global economic slowdown, currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures, the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and
the display and sale of advertising, import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations, difficulties in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations, issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor
laws and regulations, and potentially adverse tax developments. In addition, doing business internationally is subject to risks relating to political or social unrest, corruption and government regulation, including U.S. laws such as the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations. If any of these events occur, our businesses may be adversely affected.       Our Class B common stock has substantial voting rights and separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions, and our Chairman and CEO has considerable influence over our company through
his beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock.       Our Class B common stock has a nondilutable 33   1   /   3   % of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. This nondilutable voting power is subject to proportional decrease to the extent the number of shares of Class B common stock is reduced
below 9,444,375, which was the number of shares of Class B common stock outstanding on the date of our 2002 acquisition of AT T Corp. s cable business, subject to adjustment in specified situations. Stock dividends payable on the Class B
common stock in the form of Class B or Class A common stock do not decrease the nondilutable voting power of the Class B common stock. The Class B common stock also has separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions,
even if they are approved by our Board of Directors or by our other shareholders and even if they might be in the best interests of our other shareholders. These potentially material transactions include mergers or consolidations involving Comcast
Corporation, transactions (such as a sale of all or substantially all of our assets) or issuances of securities that require shareholder approval, transactions that result in any person or group owning shares representing more than 10% of the
combined voting power of the resulting or surviving corporation, issuances of Class B common stock or securities exercisable or convertible into Class B common stock, and amendments to our articles of incorporation or by-laws that would limit the
rights of holders of our Class B common stock. Brian L. Roberts, our chairman and CEO, beneficially owns all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock and, accordingly, has considerable influence over our company and the potential
ability to transfer effective control by selling the Class B common stock, which could be at a premium.    

Table of Contents  

     Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments   
  None.   
    Item 2: Properties      We believe that substantially all of our physical assets were in good operating condition as of December 31, 2015. Our corporate headquarters and Cable Communications segment headquarters are located in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at One Comcast Center. We own an 80% interest in the entity whose primary asset is One Comcast Center. We also lease locations for numerous business offices, warehouses and properties housing divisional information
technology operations throughout the United States.       Cable Communications Segment    
      Our principal physical assets consist of
operating plant and equipment, including signal receiving, encoding and decoding devices, headends and distribution networks, and equipment at or near our customers  homes. Our distribution network consists primarily of headends, content
distribution servers, coaxial and fiber-optic cables, lasers, routers, switches and related electronic equipment. Our cable plant and related equipment generally are connected to utility poles under pole rental agreements with local public
utilities, although in some areas the distribution cable is buried in underground ducts or trenches. Customer premise equipment consists primarily of set-top boxes, cable modems and wireless gateways. The physical components of cable systems require
periodic maintenance and replacement.      Our signal reception sites, which consist primarily of antenna towers and headends, and our
microwave facilities are located on owned and leased parcels of land, and we own or lease space on the towers on which certain of our equipment is located. We own most of our service vehicles.   
  Our high-speed Internet network consists of fiber-optic cables owned or leased by us and related equipment. We also operate regional data centers
with equipment that is used to provide services (such as email, news and web services) to our high-speed Internet and voice customers. In addition, we maintain two network operations centers with equipment necessary to monitor and manage the status
of our high-speed Internet network.      We own or lease buildings throughout the country that contain customer service call centers,
customer service centers, warehouses and administrative space. We also own a building that houses our digital media center. The digital media center contains equipment that we own or lease, including equipment related to network origination, video
transmission via satellite and terrestrial fiber-optics, broadcast studios, post-production services and interactive television services.   
   NBCUniversal Segments        
  NBCUniversal s corporate headquarters are located in New York City at 30 Rockefeller Plaza. NBCUniversal owns the space it occupies at 30
Rockefeller Plaza. We also own or lease offices, studios, production facilities, screening rooms, retail operations, warehouse space, satellite transmission receiving facilities and data centers in numerous locations in the United States and around
the world, including property for our owned local broadcast television stations. In addition, we own theme parks and related facilities in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. In November 2015, NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest in the
Universal Studios Japan.   

Table of Contents  

   NBCUniversal Properties as of December 31, 2015   

Location  
      
  Principal Use  
      
  Principal Segment in Which Used  
      
  Owned or Leased   

30 Rockefeller Plaza  
  New York, NY   
      
    NBCUniversal corporate     headquarters, offices and
studios   
      
  Headquarters and Other, Cable Networks and Broadcast Television  
      
  Owned   

10 Rockefeller Plaza  
  New York, NY   
      
     The Today Show  studio,     production
facilities and offices   
      
  Broadcast Television  
      
  Leased   

Universal City  
  Universal City, CA   
      
  Offices, studios, theme park and retail operations  
      
  All  
      
  Owned   

1000 Universal Studios Plaza  
  Orlando, FL   
      
  Theme parks, production facilities, parking structures and administrative buildings  
      
  Theme Parks  
      
  Owned   

Osaka, Japan   
      
  Theme park and administrative buildings  
      
  Theme Parks  
      
  Tangible properties owned on leased parcels of land   

2290 W 8   th    Ave.     Hialeah, FL   
      
  Telemundo headquarters and production facilities  
      
    Headquarters and Other and     Broadcast Television   
      
  Leased   
     Other    
      The Wells Fargo Center, a large,
multipurpose arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania that we own, was the principal physical operating asset of our other businesses as of December 31, 2015.        Item 3: Legal Proceedings      Refer to Note 17 to
Comcast s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on  Form 10-K  for a discussion of recent developments related to our legal proceedings.   
  In addition to the matters described in Note 17, the California Attorney General and the Alameda County, California District Attorney investigated
whether certain of our waste disposal policies, procedures and practices were in violation of the California Business and Professions Code and the California Health and Safety Code. These claims were settled in 2015 and did not have a material
effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.      NBCUniversal is subject to legal proceedings and claims that
arise in the ordinary course of its business and it does not expect the final disposition of these matters to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, although any such matters could be
time-consuming and costly and could injure its reputation.        Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures   
  Not applicable.   

Table of Contents  

   Part II         
    Item 5: Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities      Comcast s Class A common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CMCSA. In December
2015, our shareholders approved a proposal to amend and restate our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in order to reclassify each issued share of Comcast s Class A Special common stock into one share of Comcast s
Class A common stock. This reclassification became effective as of the close of business on December 11, 2015, at which time Comcast s Class A Special common stock was no longer outstanding and ceased trading on the NASDAQ under
the symbol CMCSK and instead became listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol CMCSA. There is no established public trading market for Comcast s Class B common stock. The Class B common stock can be converted, on a share for share basis, into
Class A common stock.       
    We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of
Directors. In January 2016, our Board of Directors approved a 10.0% increase in our dividend to $1.10 per share on an annualized basis and approved our first quarter dividend of $0.275 per share to be paid in April 2016.   
  Holders of Class A common stock in the aggregate hold 66    2   /   3   % of the voting power of our common stock. The number of votes that each share of Class A common stock has at any given time depends on the number of shares of Class A common stock and Class B common
stock then outstanding. The Class B common stock has a 33    1   /   3   % nondilutable voting interest, and each share of Class B common stock has 15 votes per
share. Mr. Brian L. Roberts beneficially owns all outstanding shares of Class B common stock. Generally, including as to the election of directors, holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as one class except
where class voting is required by law.      Record holders as of December 31, 2015, are presented in the table below.   

Table of Contents  

   The table below summarizes our repurchases under our Board-authorized share repurchase program during
2015.       

(a)  
     
    In February 2015, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase program authorization to $10 billion, and in December 2015, it increased the
authorization to $10 billion effective January 1, 2016, which does not have an expiration date.         The total number
of shares purchased during 2015 includes 9,713 shares received in the administration of employee share-based compensation plans.      Under
our share repurchase program authorization, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in private transactions. We expect to repurchase $5 billion of our Class A common stock during 2016, subject to market conditions. The number of shares
we repurchase during 2016 will depend on prevailing market conditions.        Issuance of Equity Securities 
      On June 11, 2015, we issued 2,655,008 shares of our Class A common stock in connection with our acquisition of a closely-held
company in a private transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in accordance with Section 4(a)(2) thereof.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Common Stock Sales Price Table    
      The following table sets forth, for the
indicated periods, the high and low sales prices of Comcast s Class A and Class A Special common stock.       

(a)  
     
    The high and low sales price of Comcast s Class A Special common stock reflects the prices until December 11, 2015 when each issued share of
Class A Special common stock was reclassified into one share of Class A common stock.      

Table of Contents  

    Stock Performance Graph    
       Comcast    
  The graph below compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total shareholder return on Comcast s Class A common stock during
the five years ended December 31, 2015 with the cumulative total returns on the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index and with a select peer group consisting of us and other companies engaged in the cable, communications and media
industries. This peer group consists of us, as well as Cablevision Systems Corporation (Class A), DISH Network Corporation (Class A), DirecTV Inc. (included through July 24, 2015, the date of acquisition by AT T Corp.) and Time Warner Cable
Inc. (the  cable subgroup ), and Time Warner Inc., Walt Disney Company, Viacom Inc. (Class B), Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (Class A), and CBS Corporation (Class B) (the  media subgroup ). The peer group was constructed as a
composite peer group in which the cable subgroup is weighted 63% and the media subgroup is weighted 37% based on the respective revenue of our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments. The graph assumes $100 was invested on December 31,
2010 in our Class A common stock and in each of the following indices and assumes the reinvestment of dividends.      Comparison of 5
Year Cumulative Total Return           

NBCUniversal    
  NBCUniversal is a wholly owned subsidiary of NBCUniversal Holdings and there is no market for its equity securities.   

Table of Contents  

     Item 6: Selected Financial Data   
   Comcast        

(a)  
     
    For 2015, 2014 and 2013, refer to Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the effects of items impacting net income attributable to Comcast Corporation. In 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, net income attributable to Comcast Corporation is stated after deducting net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests of $250 million, $212 million, $319 million, $1.7 billion and $1 billion, respectively. The reduction in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of
General Electric Company s 49% common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings that we did not already own in March 2013 (the  NBCUniversal redemption transaction ). See Note 5 to Comcast s consolidated financial statements for
additional information on the NBCUniversal redemption transaction.          

(b)  
     
    On January 28, 2011, we completed the NBCUniversal transaction in which Comcast acquired a controlling interest in NBCUniversal. The results of
operations of NBCUniversal are included in the financial information above for all periods following January 28, 2011.          

(c)  
     
    As of December 31, 2015, we have adopted the updated accounting guidance that requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a direct deduction from the
associated debt obligation. As a result, we reclassified unamortized debt issuance costs from other noncurrent assets to a reduction of long-term debt for all periods presented.      
   NBCUniversal        
  Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(a) to Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents  

     Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations       Introduction and Overview    
      We are a global media and technology
company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business
segments. The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks segments comprise the NBCUniversal businesses (collectively, the  NBCUniversal segments ).   
  In 2015, our consolidated revenue was $74.5 billion and our operating income was $16.0 billion.   

2015 Consolidated Operating Results by Segment       

Cable Communications Segment       Comcast Cable
is one of the nation s largest providers of video, high-speed Internet and voice services ( cable services ) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand, and we also provide these and other services to business customers. As of
December 31, 2015, our cable systems had 27.7 million total customer relationships; served 22.3 million video customers, 23.3 million high-speed Internet customers and 11.5 million voice customers; and passed more than
55 million homes and businesses.      Our Cable Communications segment generates revenue primarily from residential and business
customers subscribing to our cable services, which we market individually and as bundled services, and from the sale of advertising. Customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis based on the services and features they receive and the
type of equipment they use. The majority of our residential cable services customers are   

Table of Contents  

not subject to minimum-term contracts for their services, while substantially all of our business customers are. Minimum-term contracts are typically 2 years in length for residential customers
and typically range from 2 to 5 years for business services customers. Customers with minimum-term contracts may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts, which may include an early termination fee.   
  Residential Cable Services      Our
Cable Communications segment offers a broad variety of video service packages that may include premium networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax; pay-per-view services; and our On Demand service. Our video customers may subscribe for
additional fees to our high-definition video ( HD ) and digital video recorder ( DVR ) advanced services. We are actively deploying X1 set-top boxes throughout our footprint and have launched Cloud DVR technology in substantially
all of our markets.      We offer residential customers a variety of high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds of up to 150 Mbps
and downstream speeds of up to 505 Mbps in limited markets. We are actively deploying wireless gateways throughout our footprint, which combine a customer s wireless router, cable modem and voice adapter, to improve the performance of multiple
Internet-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network. We are continuing to expand our network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots to allow most of our
high-speed Internet customers to access our high-speed Internet services inside and outside the home, and we provide access to approximately 13.3 million of these hotspots as of December 31, 2015.   
  We offer voice services that provide local and long-distance calling and other related features.   
  Business Services      We offer our
cable services to small and medium-sized businesses, and more recently, we have begun to offer services to large enterprises with multiple locations ( business services ). We offer to medium-sized businesses and large enterprises Ethernet
network services that connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options. We also provide cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help those customers manage network bandwidth.   
  Advertising      Our Cable
Communications segment also sells advertising. As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that our Spotlight business sells to local, regional and
national advertisers.      Operating Margin      Our Cable Communications segment operating margin is operating income before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of revenue. The most significant operating costs and expenses for our Cable Communications
segment are the programming expenses we incur to provide content to our video customers. As further discussed in Cable Communications Segment Results of Operations, we expect that our programming expenses will continue to increase, which may
negatively impact our operating margin. We will attempt to mitigate increases in operating costs and expenses by growing revenue, particularly in our high-speed Internet, video and business services businesses.   
   NBCUniversal Segments       NBCUniversal is one
of the world s leading media and entertainment companies that develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news and information, sports, and other content for global audiences, as well as owns and operates several theme parks worldwide.

Table of Contents  

   Cable Networks      Our Cable Networks segment consists primarily of a diversified portfolio of cable television networks. Our cable networks are comprised of our national cable entertainment networks (USA Network, Syfy, E!, Bravo,
Oxygen, Esquire Network, Sprout, Chiller, Universal HD and Cloo), our national cable news and information networks (MSNBC, CNBC and CNBC World), our national cable sports networks (Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network), our regional sports and news
networks, various international cable networks, our cable television studio production operations, and related digital media properties.   
  Our Cable Networks segment generates revenue primarily from the distribution and licensing of its programming and from the sale of advertising on
its networks.      Broadcast Television      Our Broadcast Television segment consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast television networks, its 10 NBC and 17 Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable
network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and related digital media properties.      Our Broadcast Television segment
generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising on its networks, from the licensing of its programming, and from fees received under retransmission consent agreements.      Filmed Entertainment      Our Filmed Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires,
markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide, and it also develops, produces and licenses live stage plays. Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination and Focus Features names.   
  Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide distribution of our produced and acquired films for exhibition in
movie theaters and from the licensing and sale of our owned and acquired films.      Theme Parks   
  Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. In November 2015,
NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest in the Universal Studios theme park in Osaka, Japan ( Universal Studios Japan ). In addition, along with a consortium of Chinese state owned companies, we are developing a theme park in China.
     Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our theme parks, as well as from licensing
and other fees.       2015 Developments    
  The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2015:      Cable Communications Segment       

An increase in Cable Communications segment revenue of 6.2% to $46.9 billion and an increase in Cable Communications segment operating income before
depreciation and amortization of 5.6% to $19.1 billion    

An increase in Cable Communications segment capital expenditures of 14.3% to $7 billion primarily due to our continued investment in the following
initiatives:    

the accelerated deployment of our IP and cloud-enabled video platform, referred to as our X1 platform, which is available in all of the markets in which we
operate, and our Cloud DVR technology, which is available in substantially all of our markets    

Table of Contents  

the deployment of wireless gateways to more than 70% of our residential high-speed Internet customers    

the improvement of our network infrastructure to increase network capacity    

the expansion of our business services, including the creation of the new enterprise service offering designed to serve certain Fortune 1000 companies and
other large nationwide enterprises with multiple locations    

Investments to improve the customer experience, including by hiring additional personnel and developing and deploying various technology and software tools
   
          NBCUniversal Segments   

An increase in total NBCUniversal operating income before depreciation and amortization of 14.8% to $6.4 billion    

An increase in our Filmed Entertainment segment revenue of 45.5% largely due to the success of  Furious 7 ,  Jurassic World  and  Minions ,
which each exceeded $1 billion in worldwide theatrical receipts    

An increase in our Theme Parks segment revenue of 27.3% due to the continued success of attractions at our Universal theme parks, including  The Wizarding
World of Harry Potter      Diagon Alley   in Orlando and the  Fast   Furious     Supercharged   studio tour in Hollywood    

The continued investment in original programming and sports programming rights at both our cable networks and broadcast television networks, including the
premiere of NASCAR programming    

The acquisition of a 51% interest in Universal Studios Japan for $1.5 billion    
           Competition       The results of operations of our reportable business segments are affected by competition, as all of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete
with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information content to consumers.      For additional information on the competition our businesses face, see Item 1A: Risk Factors and refer to the risk factors entitled  Our businesses currently face a wide range of competition, and our
businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively  and  Changes in consumer behavior driven by alternative methods for viewing content may adversely affect our businesses and challenge
existing business models  within that section.       Seasonality and Cyclicality    
  Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. In our Cable Communications segment, our results are impacted by the seasonal
nature of customers receiving our cable services in college and vacation markets. This generally results in a reduction in net customer additions in the second quarter and an increase in net customer additions in the third and fourth quarters of
each year.      Revenue in our Cable Communications, Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments is subject to cyclical advertising
patterns and changes in viewership levels. Our U.S. advertising revenue is generally higher   

Table of Contents  

in the second and fourth quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the spring and in the period leading up to and including the holiday season. U.S. advertising
revenue is also cyclical, with a benefit in even-numbered years due to advertising related to candidates running for political office and issue-oriented advertising. Revenue in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments fluctuates
depending on the timing of when our programming is aired on television, which typically results in higher advertising revenue in the second and fourth quarters of each year. Our revenue and operating costs and expenses, excluding depreciation and
amortization ( operating costs and expenses ) are cyclical as a result of our periodic broadcasts of major sporting events such as the Olympic Games, which affect our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments, and the Super Bowl,
which affect our Broadcast Television segment. Our advertising revenue generally increases in the period of these broadcasts due to increased demand for advertising time, and our operating costs and expenses also increase as a result of our
production costs and the amortization of the related rights fees.      Revenue in our Filmed Entertainment segment fluctuates due to the
timing of the release of films in movie theaters, on DVD and through digital distribution services. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods. As a result, revenue tends to
be seasonal, with increases experienced each year during the summer months and around the holidays. Revenue in our Cable Networks, Broadcast Television and Filmed Entertainment segments also fluctuates due to the timing of when our content is made
available to licensees.      Revenue in our Theme Parks segment fluctuates with changes in theme park attendance that result from the
seasonal nature of vacation travel and weather variations, local entertainment offerings and the opening of new attractions. Our theme parks generally experience peak attendance during the summer months when schools are closed and during early
winter and spring holiday periods.       Consolidated Operating Results    
       
    All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Revenue       The following graph illustrates the contributions to the increases in consolidated revenue by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, as well as our Corporate and Other activities.   

Consolidated revenue in 2015 included $376 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the Super Bowl in
February 2015 and an increase in revenue at our Filmed Entertainment segment of $2.3 billion, both of which are reported in our NBCUniversal segments. Consolidated revenue in 2014 included $1.1 billion of revenue associated with our broadcast of the
Sochi Olympics in February 2014, which is reported in our NBCUniversal segments.      Revenue for our segments is discussed separately below
under the heading  Segment Operating Results.  Revenue for our other businesses is discussed separately under the heading  Corporate and Other Results of Operations.    

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Costs and Expenses       The following graph illustrates the contributions to the increases in consolidated operating costs and expenses by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, as well as our Corporate and Other activities.

Our consolidated operating costs and expenses in 2015 included expenses associated with our broadcast of the
2015 Super Bowl and our larger film slate, both of which are included in our NBCUniversal segments. Our consolidated operating costs and expenses in 2014 included expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics, which is reported
in our NBCUniversal segments. Our consolidated operating costs and expenses also included transaction-related costs associated with the Time Warner Cable merger and the related divestiture transactions of $178 million and $237 million in 2015 and
2014, respectively, which is included in Corporate and Other. On April 24, 2015, we and Time Warner Cable Inc. terminated our planned merger and we terminated our related agreement with Charter Communications, Inc. to spin off, exchange and
sell certain cable systems.      Operating costs and expenses for our segments is discussed separately below under the heading  Segment
Operating Results.  Operating costs and expenses for our other businesses is discussed separately below under the heading  Corporate and Other Results of Operations.       Consolidated Depreciation and Amortization       
    Consolidated depreciation and amortization expenses increased in 2015 primarily due to increases in capital
expenditures, as well as expenditures for software, in our Cable Communications segment in recent years. We continue to invest in customer premise equipment, primarily for our X1 platform, wireless gateways and Cloud DVR technology, and in equipment
to increase our network capacity. In addition, because these assets generally have shorter estimated useful lives, our depreciation expenses have increased, which we expect will   

Table of Contents  

continue in 2016. In 2015, depreciation and amortization expenses included $20 million related to the acceleration of amortization for certain intangible assets and the write-off of certain
capitalized costs associated with the termination of the Time Warner Cable merger and related divestiture transactions. Consolidated depreciation and amortization expenses increased slightly in 2014 primarily due to increases in capital spending in
our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, as well as increases related to our acquisitions in 2013 of our corporate headquarters and real estate properties for NBCUniversal.       Segment Operating Results        
  Our segment operating results are presented based on how we assess operating performance and internally report financial information. We use
operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses from the sale of assets, if any, as the measure of profit or loss for our operating segments. This
measure eliminates the significant level of noncash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of certain of our businesses and from intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, it is
unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. We use this measure to evaluate our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of our operating segments and to allocate resources and capital to our operating
segments. It is also a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with that of other
companies in our industries, although our measure may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Because we use operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization to measure our segment profit or loss, we
reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ), in the business segment footnote to our
consolidated financial statements (see Note 18 to Comcast s consolidated financial statements and Note 17 to NBCUniversal s consolidated financial statements). This measure should not be considered a substitute for operating income (loss),
net income (loss) attributable to Comcast Corporation or NBCUniversal, net cash provided by operating activities, or other measures of performance or liquidity we have reported in accordance with GAAP.   
  The revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl were reported in our Broadcast Television
segment. The revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics were reported in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments.       Cable Communications Segment Results of Operations        

Table of Contents  

Customer Metrics       
    Customer metrics include residential and business customers and are presented based on actual amounts. Minor
differences may exist due to rounding.       

(a)  
     
    Customer relationships represent the number of residential and business customers that subscribe to at least one of our cable services. Single product, double
product and triple product customers represent customers that subscribe to one, two or three of our cable services, respectively.      
   Cable Communications Segment   Revenue    
  Video      Video revenue increased 3.6%
and 1.2% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increases in revenue in both years were due to increases in the number of residential customers receiving additional and higher levels of video service and rate adjustments, partially offset by decreases
in the number of residential video customers. The increases in residential customers receiving additional and higher levels of video service and rate adjustments accounted for increases in revenue of 4.5% and 2.7% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. As
of December 31, 2015, 13.9 million customers subscribed to at least one of our HD or DVR advanced services compared to 13.0 million customers and 12.5 million customers as of December 31, 2014 and 2013,

Table of Contents  

respectively. The decreases in the number of residential video customers in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to competitive pressures and the impact of rate adjustments.   
  As of December 31, 2015, 40.1% of the homes and businesses in the areas we serve subscribed to our video services, compared to 40.9% and 41.9%
as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We may experience further declines in the number of residential video customers.   
  High-Speed Internet      High-speed
Internet revenue increased 10.2% and 9.5% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Increases in the number of residential customers receiving our high-speed Internet services accounted for increases in revenue of 5.8% and 5.9% in 2015 and 2014, respectively.
The remaining increases in revenue in both 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to increases in the number of customers receiving higher levels of service and rate adjustments.      As of December 31, 2015, 41.9% of the homes and businesses in the areas we serve subscribed to our high-speed Internet services, compared to 40.2% and 38.4% as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Our customer base continues to grow as consumers choose our high-speed Internet service and seek higher-speed offerings.      Voice
     Voice revenue decreased 1.7% in 2015 and increased slightly in 2014. While the number of residential customers receiving voice services
through our discounted bundled service offerings increased in both years, revenue was negatively impacted by the allocation of voice revenue for our customers who receive bundled services. The amount allocated to voice revenue in the rate charged
for bundled services decreased in 2015 and 2014 because video and high-speed Internet rates increased while voice rates remained relatively flat.      As of December 31, 2015, 20.6% of the homes and businesses in the areas we serve subscribed to our voice services, compared to 20.5% and 19.9% as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   
  Business Services      Business
services revenue increased 20.0% and 21.9% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increases in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to increases in the number of small business customers receiving our high-speed Internet and voice services and rate
adjustments. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, our small business customers represented more than 70% of total business services revenue. The remaining increases in both years were primarily due to continued growth in our medium-sized business services,
including Ethernet network and advanced voice services.      We believe the increases in the number of business customers were primarily the
result of our efforts to gain market share from competitors by offering competitive services and pricing.      Advertising   
  As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that
our Spotlight business sells to local, regional and national advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising units are sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a
portion of the advertising time allocated to us. We also represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand
service. Advertising revenue is affected by the strength of the advertising market and general economic conditions.      Advertising revenue
decreased 3.1% in 2015 primarily due to a decrease in political advertising revenue. Excluding the impact of political advertising revenue, advertising revenue increased 3.7% in 2015. Advertising

Table of Contents  

revenue increased 11.5% in 2014 primarily due to an increase in political revenue of 8.0%, as well as an increase in revenue in our national and local advertising markets. Excluding the impact of
political advertising revenue, advertising revenue increased 3.5% in 2014.      In 2015, 7% of our Cable Communications segment s
advertising revenue was generated from our NBCUniversal segments, compared to 5% and 4% in 2014 and 2013, respectively. These amounts are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements but are included in the amounts presented above.
     Other      Other revenue
primarily includes revenue related to cable franchise and other regulatory fees. We also receive revenue related to fees from other services, such as our home security and automation services. Cable franchise and other regulatory fees represent the
fees we are required to pay to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through to our customers. Under the terms of our cable franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the cable franchising authority an amount based on our
gross video revenue. The changes in franchise and other regulatory fees collected from our cable services customers are generally due to changes in the revenue on which the fees apply.   
  Other revenue increased 9.6% and 5.1% in 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily due to increases in revenue from our home security and automation
services, as well as increases in cable franchise and other regulatory fees.       Cable Communications Segment   Operating Costs and Expenses
      Our operating margin, which is our operating income before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of revenue, for 2015, 2014
and 2013 was 40.8%, 41.0% and 41.1%, respectively.      Programming Expenses   
  Programming expenses, which represent our most significant operating expense, are the fees we incur to provide content to our video customers. These
expenses are affected by the programming license fees charged by cable networks, the fees charged for retransmission of the signals from local broadcast television stations, the number of video customers we serve and the amount of content we
provide. Programming expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increases in programming license fees, including sports programming costs and retransmission consent fees, and fees to secure rights for additional programming for our
customers across an increasing number of platforms.      We anticipate that our programming expenses will continue to increase as we provide
additional content to our video customers; as we deliver this content through an increasing number of platforms, including On Demand, online and through our mobile apps; and as the fees we pay increase, primarily sports programming costs and
retransmission consent fees. We believe that adding more content and delivering it on various platforms will help us to attract and retain video customers.      Technical and Product Support Expenses      Technical and product support expenses include
costs to complete service call and installation activities, as well as costs for network operations, product development, fulfillment and provisioning. Technical and product support expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to expenses
related to the development, delivery and support of our enhanced devices, including our X1 set-top boxes, Cloud DVR technology and wireless gateways, and the continued growth in business services and home security and automation services. The
increase in 2015 was also due to expenses related to investments we are making to improve the customer experience.   

Table of Contents  

   Customer Service Expenses      Customer service expenses include the personnel and other costs associated with handling the sale of services to customers and customer service activity. Customer service expenses increased in 2015 primarily due to
increases in support for improving the customer experience and increases in total labor costs associated with increases in customer service activity. Customer service expenses increased in 2014 due to increases in total labor costs associated with
increases in customer service activity. The increases in customer service activity in both periods were due to sales and support activities associated with the continued deployment of our enhanced devices and services, which include our X1 platform,
Cloud DVR technology, wireless gateways, and home security and automation services, and the continued growth in business services.   
  Franchise and Other Regulatory Fees   
  Franchise and other regulatory fees increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increases in the revenue on which the fees apply.   
  Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses      Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increases in spending associated with attracting new residential and business services customers and encouraging existing
customers to add additional or higher-tier services.      Other Operating Costs and Expenses   
  Other operating costs and expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increases in costs to support our advertising sales business, as well
as increases in other administrative costs.       NBCUniversal Segments Overview    
      2015 NBCUniversal Segments Operating
Results           

Table of Contents  

Percentage changes that are considered not meaningful are denoted with NM.   

(a)  
     
    As disclosed in Note 11 to the Comcast consolidated financial statements, NBCUniversal changed its method of accounting for a contractual obligation that
involves an interest in the revenue of certain theme parks. As a result of the change, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, amounts payable based on current period revenue are presented in operating costs and expenses. Amounts paid through the
third quarter of 2015 were included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of income. For segment reporting purposes, we have adjusted periods prior to the fourth quarter of 2015 to reflect this expense on a consistent basis
for all periods in the Theme Parks segment, which resulted in an offsetting adjustment in NBCUniversal Headquarters, Other and Eliminations.          Cable Networks Segment Results of Operations        
   
     Cable Networks Segment   Revenue       Distribution      Distribution revenue is generated from distribution agreements with
multichannel video providers and is affected by the number of subscribers receiving our cable networks and the fees we charge per subscriber.      Distribution revenue increased in 2015 primarily due to increases in the contractual rates charged under distribution agreements which were partially due to the premiere of NASCAR programming on the NBC Sports

Table of Contents  

Network in 2015. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in revenue from the decline in subscribers at some of our cable networks. Distribution revenue increased in 2014 primarily due
to our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics and increases in contractual rates charged under distribution agreements. Excluding $177 million of revenue associated with the 2014 Sochi Olympics, distribution revenue increased 6.5% and 4.6% in 2015 and
2014, respectively.      Advertising      Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising units sold on our cable networks and related digital media properties. Advertising revenue is primarily based on the price we charge for each
advertising unit, which is generally based on audience ratings and the value of our viewer demographics to advertisers, and the number of advertising units we can place in our cable networks  programming schedules. Advertising revenue is
affected by the success and ratings of our programming, the strength of the national advertising market, general economic conditions, and cyclicality related to political campaigns and issue-oriented advertising. Audience ratings at some of our
cable networks have declined and may continue to decline as the number of programming choices continues to increase and as more viewers use DVRs and video on demand services to view content outside of audience ratings measurement periods.
     Advertising revenue decreased in 2015 primarily due to revenue in the prior year associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi
Olympics. In addition, while we continued to experience audience ratings declines that negatively affected advertising revenue, the impact of audience ratings was partially offset by higher prices for, and an increase in the volume of, advertising
units sold, as well as increased advertising revenue associated with the broadcast of NASCAR programming. Advertising revenue decreased slightly in 2014 primarily due to continued declines in audience ratings at our cable networks and the absence of
the Style network and Fandango in 2014. In 2014, we began presenting the operations of Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business, in the Filmed Entertainment segment. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices for, and an
increase in the volume of, advertising units sold and our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics. Excluding $80 million of revenue associated with the 2014 Sochi Olympics, advertising revenue increased slightly in 2015 due to the broadcast of NASCAR
programming and decreased 3.5% in 2014 due to continued declines in audience ratings at our cable networks.      Content Licensing and Other
     We generate other revenue primarily from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally to cable and
broadcast networks and subscription video on demand services, as well as from the sale of our owned programming through digital distribution services such as iTunes. In addition, our cable television production generates revenue from programming it
produces for third-party networks and subscription video on demand services.      Content licensing and other revenue decreased in 2015
primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements. Content licensing and other revenue remained flat in 2014.      In 2015, 2014 and 2013, 13%, 12% and 13%, respectively, of our Cable Networks segment revenue was generated from our Cable Communications segment. These amounts are eliminated in Comcast s consolidated
financial statements but are included in the amounts presented above.       Cable Networks Segment   Operating Costs and Expenses    
  Programming and Production Costs   
  Programming and production costs include the amortization of owned and acquired programming, sports rights, direct production costs, residual and
participation payments, production overhead, costs associated with the distribution of our programming to third-party networks and other distribution platforms, and on-air talent costs.   

Table of Contents  

   Programming and production costs increased in 2015 primarily due to our continued investment in
programming, including the premiere of NASCAR programming and other sports programming rights costs. These increases were partially offset by costs in the prior year associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics. Programming and
production costs increased in 2014 primarily due to costs associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics, as well as our continued investment in programming, including original programming at our entertainment networks and sports
programming rights costs. The increase in sports programming rights costs in 2014 included the impact of a new rights agreement with a professional sports team and costs associated with the first full year of our airing of English Premier League
soccer.      Other Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses      Other operating and administrative costs and expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other overhead expenses.      Other operating and administrative costs and expenses increased in 2015 primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. Other operating and administrative costs and expenses decreased in 2014 primarily due
to lower employee-related costs and the absence of the Style network and Fandango in 2014.      Advertising, Marketing and Promotion
Expenses      Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with promoting our cable networks
programming and costs associated with our related digital media properties.      Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses increased in
2015 primarily due to an increase in marketing expenses related to the launch of new programming on our cable networks. Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses remained relatively flat in 2014.   
   Broadcast Television Segment Results of Operations    
       
     Broadcast Television Segment   Revenue       Advertising      Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising units sold
on our broadcast networks, our owned local television stations and our related digital media properties. Advertising revenue is primarily based on the price we receive for each advertising unit, which is generally based on audience ratings and the
value of our viewer demographics to advertisers, and the number of advertising units we can place in our broadcast   

Table of Contents  

networks  and owned local television stations  programming schedules. Advertising revenue is affected by the strength of the national and local advertising markets, general economic
conditions, cyclicality related to political campaigns and issue-oriented advertising, and the success and ratings of our programming.   
  Advertising revenue decreased in 2015 primarily due to revenue in the prior year associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics, which
was partially offset by an increase in advertising revenue in the current year associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl. Advertising revenue increased in 2014 primarily due to revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi
Olympics. Excluding $730 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics and $376 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl, revenue increased 4.1% and 4.6% in 2015 and 2014, respectively,
primarily due to higher prices and increases in the volume of advertising units sold.      Content Licensing   
  Content licensing revenue is generated from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally to various distribution
platforms, including to cable and broadcast networks, as well as to subscription video on demand services. In addition, our broadcast television production studio develops and produces original content that it licenses to broadcast networks, cable
networks and local broadcast television stations owned by us and third parties, as well as to subscription video on demand services. The production and distribution costs related to our owned programming generally exceed the revenue generated from
the initial network license, which means the subsequent licensing of our owned programming series following the initial network license is critical to their financial success.      Content licensing revenue increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.      Other      We generate other revenue primarily from fees for retransmission consent of our
owned local broadcast television stations and associated fees received from NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations, as well as from the sale of our owned programming on DVD and through digital distribution services. The sale of our owned
programming is driven primarily by the popularity of our broadcast networks and programming series and therefore fluctuates based on consumer spending and acceptance. Other revenue also includes distribution revenue associated with our periodic
broadcasts of the Olympic Games.      Other revenue decreased in 2015 primarily due to distribution revenue in the prior year that was
associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in fees recognized under our retransmission consent agreements, as well as new syndication agreements entered into in 2015. Other revenue
increased in 2014 primarily due to $116 million of distribution revenue that was associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics.       Broadcast
Television Segment   Operating Costs and Expenses       Programming and Production Costs   
  Programming and production costs relate to content originating on our broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations, as well as
owned content that is licensed to third parties. These costs include the amortization of owned and acquired programming costs, sports rights, direct production costs, residual and participation payments, production overhead, costs associated with
the distribution of our programming to third-party networks and other distribution platforms, and on-air talent costs.      Programming and
production costs decreased in 2015 primarily due to costs in the prior year associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics. The decrease was partially offset by costs associated with our

Table of Contents  

broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl, the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements and higher studio production costs. Programming and production costs increased in 2014 primarily
due to costs associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics, as well as our continued investment in original programming.   
  Other Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses      Other operating and administrative costs and expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other overhead expenses.      Other operating and administrative costs increased in 2015 primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. Other operating and administrative costs and expenses remained flat in 2014.   
  Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses      Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with promoting our owned and licensed television programming, as well as the marketing of DVDs and costs associated with our
related digital media properties.      Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increased
spending on marketing associated with our NBC primetime lineup.       Filmed Entertainment Segment Results of Operations    
       
     Filmed Entertainment Segment   Revenue       Theatrical      Theatrical revenue is generated from the worldwide theatrical release of
our owned and acquired films for exhibition in movie theaters and is significantly affected by the timing of each release and the number of films we distribute, as well as their acceptance by audiences. Theatrical revenue is also affected by the
number of exhibition screens, ticket prices, the percentage of ticket sale retention by the exhibitors and the popularity of competing films at the time our films are released. The success of a film in movie theaters is a significant factor in
determining the revenue a film is likely to generate in succeeding distribution platforms.      Theatrical revenue increased in 2015
primarily due to the strong performance of our larger 2015 film slate, including  Furious 7 ,  Jurassic World  and  Minions . Theatrical revenue decreased in 2014 primarily due to the

Table of Contents  

strong performance of our major films in 2013, including  Despicable Me 2  and  Fast and Furious 6.  The decrease in theatrical revenue in 2014 was partially offset by the performance
of our 2014 releases, including  Lucy  and  Neighbors .      Content Licensing   
  Content licensing revenue is generated primarily from the licensing of our owned and acquired films to cable, broadcast and premium networks, as
well as to subscription video on demand services.      Content licensing revenue increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to the timing of
when content was made available under licensing agreements.      Home Entertainment   
  Home entertainment revenue is generated from the sale of our owned and acquired films on DVDs to retail stores, rental kiosks and subscription by
mail services, and in digital formats. Home entertainment revenue is significantly affected by the timing and number of our releases and their acceptance by consumers. Release dates are determined by several factors, including the timing of the
exhibition of a film in movie theaters, holiday periods and the timing of competitive releases. The overall DVD market continues to experience declines due to the maturation of the standard-definition DVD format, increasing shifts in consumer
behavior toward digital distribution services, and subscription rental services, all of which generate less revenue per transaction than DVD sales, as well as due to piracy.      Home entertainment revenue increased in 2015 primarily due to the strong performance of our 2015 releases, including  Minions  and  Jurassic World . Home entertainment revenue decreased in 2014 primarily
due to the strong performance of our 2013 releases, including  Despicable Me 2  and  Fast and Furious 6 .      Other   
  We also generate revenue from producing and licensing live stage plays, from distributing filmed entertainment produced by third parties, and from
Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business.      Other revenue increased in 2015 primarily due to an increase in revenue
generated from Fandango. Other revenue increased in 2014 primarily due to the inclusion of Fandango, which was previously presented in our Cable Networks segment.       Filmed Entertainment Segment   Operating Costs and Expenses       Programming and Production
Costs      Programming and production costs include the amortization of capitalized film production and acquisition costs, residual and
participation payments, and distribution expenses. Residual payments represent amounts payable to certain of our employees, including freelance and temporary employees, who are represented by labor unions or guilds and are based on post-theatrical
revenue. Participation payments are primarily based on film performance and represent contingent consideration payable to creative talent, third parties that have entered into cofinancing agreements with us and other parties involved in the
production of a film.      Programming and production costs increased in 2015 primarily due to higher amortization of film production costs
associated with our larger 2015 film slate, including  Furious 7 ,  Jurassic World  and  Minions . Programming and production costs decreased in 2014 primarily due to lower amortization of film costs associated with the lower costs of
our 2014 film slate compared to 2013.      Other Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses   
  Other operating and administrative costs and expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other overhead expenses.   

Table of Contents  

   Other operating and administrative expenses increased slightly in 2015 due to increased expenses
associated with our larger film slate. Other operating and administrative expenses increased in 2014 primarily due to the inclusion of Fandango, which was previously presented in our Cable Networks segment.   
  Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses      Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses consist primarily of expenses associated with advertising for our theatrical releases and the marketing of our films on DVD and in digital formats. We incur significant
marketing expenses before and throughout the release of a film in movie theaters. As a result, we typically incur losses on a film prior to and during the film s exhibition in movie theaters and may not realize profits, if any, until the film
generates home entertainment and content licensing revenue. The costs associated with producing and marketing films have generally increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future.   
  Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses increased in 2015 primarily due to higher promotional costs associated with our larger 2015 film
slate and increased advertising expenses for Fandango. Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses decreased in 2014 primarily due to fewer major film releases compared to 2013.       Theme Parks Segment Results of Operations        
   
     Theme Parks Segment   Revenue       In 2015, our Theme Parks segment revenue was generated primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California, as well as from licensing and other
fees. In November 2015, NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest in Universal Studios Japan. Guest spending includes in-park spending on food, beverages and merchandise. Guest attendance at our theme parks and guest spending depend heavily on the
general environment for travel and tourism, including consumer spending on travel and other recreational activities. Licensing and other fees relate primarily to our agreements with third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Singapore
theme park, as well as from the Universal Studios Japan theme park, to license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property.      Theme Parks segment revenue increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increases in guest attendance and increases in guest spending at our Orlando and Hollywood theme parks. The increase in 2015 was primarily due
to the continued success of our attractions, including  The Wizarding World of Harry Potter    Diagon Alley   in Orlando and the  Fast   Furious    Supercharged   studio tour and  The Simpson s
Springfield  attraction in Hollywood, both of which opened in 2015. In addition, Theme Parks segment revenue in 2015 includes $169 million of revenue attributable to Universal Studios Japan for the period from November 13, 2015 to
December 31, 2015. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to new attractions, such as  The Wizarding World of Harry Potter    Diagon Alley   in Orlando, which opened in July 2014, and  Despicable Me: Minion Mayhem  in
Hollywood.   

Table of Contents  

    Theme Parks Segment   Operating Costs and Expenses    
  Our Theme Parks segment operating costs and expenses consist primarily of theme park operations, including repairs and maintenance and related
administrative expenses; food, beverage and merchandise costs; labor costs; and sales and marketing costs.      Theme Parks segment
operating costs and expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to additional costs at our Orlando and Hollywood theme parks associated with newer attractions, such as the  Fast Furious    Supercharged   studio tour in
Hollywood in 2015 and  The Wizarding World of Harry Potter    Diagon Alley   in Orlando in 2014 and increases in food, beverage and merchandise costs associated with the increases in attendance in both years. Operating costs and
expenses also increased in 2015 due to $89 million of operating costs and expenses attributable to Universal Studios Japan and $22 million of transaction costs related to our development of a theme park in China.   
   NBCUniversal Headquarters, Other and Eliminations    
      Headquarters and Other operating costs and
expenses incurred by our NBCUniversal businesses include overhead, personnel costs and costs associated with corporate initiatives. Operating costs and expenses increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to higher employee-related costs, including
severance costs in 2014.       Corporate and Other Results of Operations    
       
     Corporate and Other   Revenue       Other revenue primarily relates to Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses.   
  Other revenue increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increases in revenue from food and other services associated with new contracts entered
into by one of our Comcast Spectacor businesses. The increase in other revenue in 2014 was also due to an increase in revenue associated with newly acquired businesses.       Corporate and Other   Operating Costs and Expenses       Corporate and Other operating costs
and expenses primarily include overhead, personnel costs, the costs of corporate initiatives and branding, and operating costs and expenses associated with Comcast Spectacor.      Excluding transaction costs associated with the Time Warner Cable merger and related divestiture transactions of $178 million and $237 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively, Corporate and Other operating costs and
expenses increased 19% in 2015. This was primarily due to $56 million of expenses related to a contract settlement, an increase in expenses related to corporate strategic business initiatives and an increase in operating costs and expenses at
Comcast Spectacor primarily associated with new contracts entered into by one of its businesses. Corporate and Other operating costs and expenses increased in 2014 primarily due to $237 million of transaction-related costs associated with the Time
Warner Cable merger and related divestiture transactions, as well as an increase in operating costs and expenses associated with new contracts entered into by one of our Comcast Spectacor businesses.   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Other Income (Expense) Items, Net    
       
     Interest Expense       Interest expense increased in 2015 primarily due to an increase in our debt outstanding and $47 million of additional interest expense associated with the early redemption in June 2015 of our $750 million aggregate
principal amount of 5.85% senior notes due November 2015 and our $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes due March 2016. Interest expense increased in 2014 primarily due to the effect of our interest rate derivative financial
instruments.       Investment Income (Loss), Net       The change in investment income (loss), net in 2015 was primarily due to a $154 million gain related to the sale of our shares of Arris Group common stock in 2014. The change in investment income (loss), net in
2014 was primarily due to a $443 million gain related to the sale of our investment in Clearwire Corporation in 2013. The components of investment income (loss), net are presented in a table in Note 7 to Comcast s consolidated financial
statements.       Equity in Net Income (Losses) of Investees, Net       The change in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net in 2015 was primarily due to TWCC Holding Corp. ( The Weather Channel ) recording impairment charges related to goodwill. We recorded expenses
of $333 million in 2015 that represent NBCUniversal s proportionate share of these impairment charges. The change in 2015 was also due to an increase in our proportionate share of losses in Hulu, LLC ( Hulu ), which were driven by
Hulu s higher programming and marketing costs. In 2015 and 2014, we recognized our proportionate share of losses of $106 million and $20 million, respectively, related to our investment in Hulu.   
  The change in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net in 2014 was primarily due to $142 million of total equity losses recorded in 2013
attributable to our investment in Hulu. In July 2013, we entered into an agreement to provide capital contributions totaling $247 million to Hulu, which we had previously accounted for as a cost method investment. This represented an agreement to
provide our first capital contribution to Hulu since we acquired our interest in it as part of our acquisition of a controlling interest in NBCUniversal in 2011 (the  NBCUniversal transaction  therefore, we began to apply the equity
method of accounting for this investment. The change in the method of accounting for this investment required us to recognize our proportionate share of Hulu s accumulated losses from the date of the NBCUniversal transaction through July 2013.
      Other Income (Expense), Net    
  Other income (expense), net for 2015 included gains of $335 million on the sales of a business and an investment, $240 million recorded on the
settlement of a contingent consideration liability with General Electric Company ( GE ) related to the acquisition of NBCUniversal, and $43 million related to an equity method investment. These gains were partially offset by $236 million
of expenses related to fair value adjustments to a contractual obligation. See Note 11 to Comcast s consolidated financial statements for additional information on this contractual obligation.   
  Other income (expense), net for 2014 included a $27 million favorable settlement of a contingency related to the AT T Broadband transaction in
2002, which was more than offset by $208 million of expenses related to   

Table of Contents  

fair value adjustments to contractual obligations and $35 million of expenses related to an indemnification receivable associated with the adjustment to our accruals for uncertain tax positions.
     Other income (expense), net for 2013 included a $108 million gain related to our sale of wireless communications spectrum licenses,
which was more than offset by the net impact of an impairment of $236 million of our equity method investment in, and loans with, a regional sports cable network based in Houston, Texas and $136 million of expenses related to fair value adjustments
to contractual obligations.       Consolidated Income Tax Expense    
      Income tax expense reflects federal and
state income taxes and adjustments associated with uncertain tax positions. Our effective income tax rate in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was 37.1%, 31.1% and 35.8%, respectively.      In 2014, we reduced our accruals for uncertain tax positions and the related accrued interest on these tax positions and, as a result, our income tax expense decreased by $759 million. See Note 15 to Comcast s
consolidated financial statements for additional information on the changes in our accruals for uncertain tax positions and related interest on these tax positions. Our 2013 income tax expense was reduced by $158 million due to the nontaxable
portion of the increase in tax basis associated with the redemption of our Liberty Media Series A common stock in October 2013.      Our
income tax expense in the future may continue to be impacted by adjustments to uncertain tax positions and related interest, and changes in tax laws. We expect our 2016 annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 37% to 39%, absent changes in
tax laws or significant changes in uncertain tax positions.       Consolidated Net (Income) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests
and Redeemable Subsidiary Preferred Stock           The increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock in 2015 was primarily due to NBCUniversal s acquisition of Universal Studios Japan. The decrease in
2014 was primarily due to the NBCUniversal redemption transaction.       Liquidity and Capital Resources    
      Our businesses generate significant cash
flows from operating activities. We believe that we will be able to continue to meet our current and long-term liquidity and capital requirements, including fixed charges, through our cash flows from operating activities; existing cash, cash
equivalents and investments; available borrowings under our existing credit facilities; and our ability to obtain future external financing. We anticipate that we will continue to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to meet our debt
repayment obligations, to fund our capital expenditures, to invest in business opportunities and to return capital to shareholders.      We
also maintain significant availability under our lines of credit and our commercial paper programs to meet our short-term liquidity requirements.      Our commercial paper programs provide a lower-cost source of borrowing to fund our short-term working capital requirements. The Comcast commercial paper program is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us and our
100% owned cable holding company subsidiary, Comcast Cable Communications, LLC ( CCCL Parent ), as well as by NBCUniversal. The maximum borrowing capacity under the Comcast commercial paper program is $6.25 billion, and it is supported by
the Comcast and Comcast Cable Communications, LLC $6.25 billion revolving credit facility due June 2017 ( Comcast revolving credit facility ). The maximum borrowing capacity under the NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. ( NBCUniversal
Enterprise ) commercial paper program is $1.35 billion, and it is supported by NBCUniversal Enterprise s $1.35 billion revolving credit facility due March 2018.   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2015, amounts available under our consolidated revolving credit facilities,
net of amounts outstanding under our commercial paper programs and outstanding letters of credit, totaled $6.4 billion, which included $775 million available under the NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility.   
  We, NBCUniversal and CCCL Parent are subject to the covenants and restrictions set forth in the indentures governing our public debt securities and
in the credit agreements governing the Comcast revolving credit facility. The only financial covenant is in this credit facility and pertains to leverage, which is the ratio of debt to operating income before depreciation and amortization, as
defined in the credit facility. We test for compliance with the financial covenant for this credit facility on an ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2015, we met this financial covenant by a significant margin. We do not expect to have to reduce
debt or improve operating results in order to continue to comply with this financial covenant. In addition, as a result of the acquisition of Universal Studios Japan, we consolidated approximately  400 billion (approximately $3.3 billion as of
December 31, 2015) in term loans that contain certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2015, Universal Studios Japan was in compliance with all of these covenants.   
  In 2015, we entered into an agreement to establish Atairos Group, Inc., a new, strategic company focused on investing in and operating
growth-oriented companies, both domestically and internationally. The agreement became effective as of January 1, 2016 and Michael J. Angelakis, who served as our Chief Financial Officer through June 30, 2015, now serves as the Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Atairos. Under the agreement, we are the exclusive non-management investor. Atairos has a term of up to 12 years. We are committed to invest up to $4 billion at any one time in the company, subject to certain offsets,
and $40 million annually to fund a management fee, subject to certain adjustments. We will account for our investment in this company under the equity method of accounting.       Operating Activities       Components of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities   
   
    The changes in operating assets and liabilities in 2015 compared to the changes in 2014 were primarily related to
the timing of film and television production spending and related costs, net of amortization, the timing of payments related to our accounts payable and accrued expenses related to trade creditors and increases in deferred revenue associated with
our Olympics broadcasts, partially offset by the timing of collections on our receivables.      The changes in operating assets and
liabilities in 2014 compared to the changes in 2013 were primarily due to the timing of film and television production spending and related costs, net of amortization of approximately $600 million.   

Table of Contents  

   Interest payments increased in 2015 primarily due to a higher level of debt outstanding. Interest
payments remained relatively flat in 2014.      The increase in income tax payments in 2015 was primarily due to higher taxable income from
operations offset by the timing of certain tax deductions. The decrease in income tax payments in 2014 was primarily due to the settlement of tax disputes and the repatriation of foreign earnings in 2013. The decrease was partially offset by higher
taxable income from operations and the net impact of the economic stimulus legislation in 2014. We expect income tax payments to increase in 2016 primarily due to higher taxable income from operations.   
   Investing Activities       Net cash used in
investing activities in 2015 consisted primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures, intangible assets, acquisitions and the purchases of investments, which was partially offset by proceeds from the sales of businesses and investments. Net cash
used in investing activities in 2014 consisted primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures and intangible assets. Net cash used in investing activities in 2013 consisted primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures, acquisitions and
construction of real estate properties, purchases of investments, and cash paid for intangible assets.      Capital Expenditures   
  Our most significant recurring investing activity has been capital expenditures in our Cable Communications segment, and we expect that this will
continue in the future. The table below summarizes the capital expenditures we incurred in our Cable Communications segment in 2015, 2014 and 2013.       
    Cable Communications capital expenditures increased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to increased spending on
customer premise equipment related to our X1 platform and wireless gateways, our continued investment in network infrastructure to increase network capacity, increased investment in support capital as we expand our cloud-based initiatives, and our
continued investment to expand business services.      Capital expenditures in our NBCUniversal segments increased 13.5% to $1.4 billion in
2015 and 5.3% to $1.2 billion in 2014 primarily due to continued investment in our Universal theme parks, including a purchase of land in 2015.      Our capital expenditures for 2016 are focused on the continued deployment of our X1 platform and Cloud DVR technology, acceleration of wireless gateways, network infrastructure to increase network capacity, and the
expansion of business services. Capital expenditures for subsequent years will depend on numerous factors, including acquisitions, competition, changes in technology, regulatory changes, the timing and rate of deployment of new services, and the
capacity required for existing services. In addition, we expect to continue to invest in existing and new attractions at our Universal theme parks. We are developing a Universal theme park in Beijing, China. We expect the development of this park to
continue in 2016.      Cash Paid for Intangible Assets      In 2015, 2014 and 2013, cash paid for intangible assets consisted primarily of expenditures for software.   

Table of Contents  

   Acquisitions and Construction of Real Estate Properties   
  Acquisitions and construction of real estate properties in 2015 and 2014 include our investment in the construction of the Comcast Innovation and
Technology Center located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In 2013, acquisitions and construction of real estate properties included NBCUniversal s purchases of the 30 Rockefeller Plaza properties it occupies and the property located at 10
Universal City Plaza, which is adjacent to Universal Studios Hollywood in University City, California, and our purchase of an 80% interest in a business whose primary asset is our corporate headquarters located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
     Acquisitions, Net of Cash Acquired      In November 2015, NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest in Universal Studios Japan for $1.5 billion. The acquisition was funded through cash on hand and borrowings under our commercial paper program.   
  Proceeds from Sales of Businesses and Investments      In 2015, proceeds from sales of businesses and investments were primarily related to the sale of our investment in TV One, LLC and the sale of a business, CTI Towers. In 2014, proceeds from sales of businesses and
investments were primarily related to the sale of our investment in Arris Group and the sale of equity securities following the settlement of certain of our prepaid forward sale agreements. In 2013, proceeds from sales of businesses and investments
were primarily related to the redemption of our Liberty Media Series A common stock by Liberty Media Corporation and the sale of our investment in Clearwire.      Purchases of Investments      Our purchases of investments in 2015 were primarily related
to NBCUniversal s investments in Vox Media, Inc. and BuzzFeed, Inc. Our purchases of investments in 2014 were not significant. In 2013, our purchases of investments were primarily related to equity securities that were held as collateral for
our prepaid forward sale agreements.       Financing Activities       Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of repurchases of our common stock, repayments of debt and dividend payments, which were partially offset by proceeds from new borrowings. Proceeds from
borrowings fluctuate from year to year based on the amounts paid to fund acquisitions and debt repayments.      We have made, and may from
time to time in the future make, optional repayments on our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding public notes and debentures, depending on various factors, such as market conditions. See Note 10 to Comcast s
consolidated financial statements for additional information on our financing activities, including details of our debt repayments and borrowings.      Share Repurchases and Dividends      In 2015, we repurchased a total of 116 million
shares of our Class A Special and Class A common stock for $6.75 billion. Effective January 1, 2016, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase program authorization to a total of $10 billion, which does not have an
expiration date. Under the authorization, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in private transactions. We expect to repurchase $5 billion of our Class A common stock during 2016, subject to market conditions.   
  Our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends totaling $2.5 billion in 2015. We paid dividends of $2.4 billion in 2015. In January 2016, our
Board of Directors approved an 10.0% increase in our dividend to $1.10 per share on an annualized basis and approved our first quarter dividend of $0.275 per share to be paid in April 2016. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although
each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors.   

Table of Contents  

   The table below sets forth information on our share repurchases and dividends paid in 2015, 2014 and
2013.         

Contractual Obligations    
       
    Refer to Note 10 and Note 17 to Comcast s consolidated financial statements.   

(a)  
     
    Excludes interest payments.          

(b)  
     
    Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding on us and specify all significant terms, including fixed or
minimum quantities to be purchased and price provisions. Our purchase obligations related to our Cable Communications segment include programming contracts with cable networks and local broadcast television stations; contracts with customer premise
equipment manufacturers, communications vendors and multichannel video providers for which we provide advertising sales representation; and other contracts entered into in the normal course of business. Cable Communications programming contracts in
the table above include amounts payable under fixed or minimum guaranteed commitments and do not represent the total fees that are expected to be paid under programming contracts, which we expect to be significantly higher because these contracts
are generally based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming. Our purchase obligations related to our NBCUniversal segments consist primarily of commitments to acquire film and television programming, including U.S. television rights
to future Olympic Games through 2032,  Sunday Night Football  on the NBC network through the 2022-23 season, including the Super Bowl in 2018 and 2021, NHL games through the 2020-21 season, Spanish-language U.S. television rights to FIFA World
Cup games through 2022, U.S television rights to English Premier League soccer games through the 2021-22 season, certain PGA TOUR and other golf events through 2030 and certain NASCAR events through 2024, as well as obligations under various
creative talent and employment agreements, including obligations to actors, producers, television personalities and executives, and various other television commitments. Purchase obligations do not include contracts with immaterial future
commitments.          

(c)  
     
    Other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of subsidiary preferred shares; deferred compensation obligations; and pension,
postretirement and postemployment benefit obligations. A contractual obligation with a carrying value of $1.1 billion is not included in the table above because it is uncertain if the arrangement will be settled. The contractual obligation involves
an interest held by a third party in the revenue of certain theme parks. The arrangement provides the counterparty with the right to periodic payments associated with current period revenue and, beginning in 2017, the option to require NBCUniversal
to purchase the interest for cash in an amount based on a contractually specified formula, which amount could be significantly higher than our current carrying value. See Note 11 to Comcast s consolidated financial statements for additional
information related to this arrangement. Reserves for uncertain tax positions of $1.1 billion are not included in the table above because it is uncertain if and when these reserves will become payable. Payments of $2.1 billion of participations and
residuals are also not included in the table above because we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period in which these obligations will be settled.      

(d)  
     
    Our contractual obligations do not include the commitment to invest up to $4 billion at any one time as an investor in Atairos due to our inability to
estimate the timing of this funding. In addition, we do not include any future expenditures related to the construction and development of the proposed Universal Studios theme park in Beijing, China as we are not currently obligated to make such
funding.      

Table of Contents  

(e)  
     
    Total contractual obligations are made up of the following components.      
   
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
      As of December 31, 2015, we did not
have any material off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.   
   Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
      See Note 3 to each of Comcast s and
NBCUniversal s consolidated financial statements for additional information related to recent accounting pronouncements.   
   Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates    
      The preparation of our consolidated
financial statements requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities. We base our judgments on our historical
experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making estimates about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.      We believe our judgments and related
estimates associated with the valuation and impairment testing of our cable franchise rights and the accounting for film and television costs are critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Management has discussed the
development and selection of these critical accounting judgments and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to them, which are presented below. See Notes 9 and 6 to
Comcast s consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our accounting policies with respect to these items.       Valuation and Impairment
Testing of Cable Franchise Rights       Our largest asset, our cable franchise rights, results from agreements we have with state and
local governments that allow us to construct and operate a cable business within a specified geographic area. The value of a franchise is derived from the economic benefits we receive from the right to solicit new customers and to market new
services, such as advanced video services and high-speed Internet and voice services, in a particular service area. The amounts we record for cable franchise rights are primarily a result of cable system acquisitions. Typically when we acquire a
cable system, the most significant asset we record is the value of the cable franchise rights. Often these cable system acquisitions include multiple franchise areas. We currently serve approximately 6,400 franchise areas in the United States.
     We have concluded that our cable franchise rights have an indefinite useful life since there are no legal, regulatory, contractual,
competitive, economic or other factors which limit the period over which these rights will contribute to our cash flows. Accordingly, we do not amortize our cable franchise rights but assess the carrying value of our cable franchise rights annually,
or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed the fair value ( impairment testing ).   

Table of Contents  

   For the purpose of our impairment testing, we have grouped the recorded values of our various cable
franchise rights into our three Cable Communications divisions or units of account. We evaluate the unit of account periodically to ensure our impairment testing is performed at an appropriate level.   
  The annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles allows for the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is
more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible is less than its carrying amount. An entity may choose to perform the qualitative assessment or an entity may bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the
quantitative impairment test. If it is determined, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible is, more likely than not, less than its carrying value, the quantitative impairment test is required. When
performing a quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of our cable franchise rights primarily based on a discounted cash flow analysis that involves significant judgment. When analyzing the fair values indicated under the discounted cash
flow models, we also consider multiples of operating income before depreciation and amortization generated by the underlying assets, current market transactions and profitability information.   
  In 2015, we performed a qualitative assessment of our cable franchise rights. We considered various factors that would affect the estimated fair
values of our cable franchise rights, including changes in our projected future cash flows associated with our Cable Communications segment; market transactions and macroeconomic conditions; and also the 8% increase in our market capitalization
since we performed our 2014 quantitative assessment. In addition, we considered the results of our 2014 quantitative assessment, in which the estimated fair values of our franchise rights exceeded the carrying value in our three Cable Communications
Divisions by 26%, 42% and 50%, respectively. We also compared our weighted-average cost of capital in 2015 to that used in our 2014 quantitative assessment and it had remained relatively consistent. Based on our 2015 qualitative assessment, we
concluded that it was more likely than not that the estimated fair values of our franchise rights were higher than our carrying values and that the performance of a quantitative impairment test was not required.   
  Since the adoption of the accounting guidance related to goodwill and intangible assets in 2002, we have not recorded any significant impairment
charges to cable franchise rights as a result of our impairment testing. A future change in the unit of account could result in the recognition of an impairment charge.      We could also record impairment charges in the future if there are changes in long-term market conditions, in expected future operating results, or in federal or state regulations that prevent us from recovering
the carrying value of these cable franchise rights. Assumptions made about increased competition and economic conditions could also impact the results of any qualitative assessment and the valuations used in future annual quantitative impairment
testing and result in a reduction in the fair values of our cable franchise rights.       Film and Television Costs    
  We capitalize film and television production costs, including direct costs, production overhead, print costs, development costs and interest. We
amortize capitalized film and television production costs, including acquired libraries, and accrue costs associated with participation and residual payments to programming and production expenses. We generally record the amortization and the
accrued costs using the individual film forecast computation method, which amortizes such costs using the ratio of the current period s revenue to estimated total remaining gross revenue from all sources ( ultimate revenue ).
Estimates of ultimate revenue have a significant impact on how quickly capitalized costs are amortized and, therefore, are updated regularly.      Our estimates of ultimate revenue for films generally include revenue from all sources that are expected to be earned within 10 years from the date of a film s initial release. These estimates are based on the
historical performance of similar content, as well as factors unique to the content itself. The most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenue for a film intended for theatrical release is the film s theatrical

Table of Contents  

performance, as subsequent revenue from the licensing and sale of a film has historically exhibited a high correlation to its theatrical performance. Upon a film s release, our estimates of
revenue from succeeding markets, including home entertainment and other distribution platforms, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends.   
  With respect to television series or other owned television programming, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenue is
whether the series can be successfully licensed beyond its initial license. Initial estimates of ultimate revenue are limited to the amount of revenue contracted for each episode under the initial license. Once it is determined that a television
series or other owned television programming can be licensed for subsequent platforms, revenue estimates for these platforms, such as U.S. and international syndication, home entertainment, and other distribution platforms, are included in ultimate
revenue. Revenue estimates for produced episodes include revenue expected to be earned within 10 years of delivery of the initial episode or, if still in production, 5 years from the delivery of the most recent episode, if later.   
  We capitalize the costs of programming content that we license but do not own, including rights to multiyear, live-event sports programming, at the
earlier of when payments are made for the programming or when the license period begins and the content is available for use. We amortize capitalized programming costs as the associated programs are broadcast. We amortize multiyear, live-event
sports programming rights using the ratio of the current period revenue to the estimated ultimate revenue or under the terms of the contract.      Capitalized film and television costs, as well as stage play production costs, are subject to impairment testing when certain triggering events are identified. If the fair value of a production were to fall below
its unamortized cost, we would record an adjustment for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the production s fair value. The fair value assessment is generally based on estimated future discounted cash flows, which are
supported by our internal forecasts. Adjustments to capitalized film and stage play production costs of $42 million, $26 million and $167 million were recorded in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

     Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
      Interest Rate Risk Management    
      We maintain a mix of fixed-rate and
variable-rate debt and we are exposed to the market risk of adverse changes in interest rates. In order to manage the cost and volatility relating to the interest cost of our outstanding debt, we enter into various interest rate risk management
derivative transactions in accordance with our policies.      We monitor our exposure to the risk of adverse changes in interest rates
through the use of techniques that include market value and sensitivity analyses. We do not engage in any speculative or leveraged derivative transactions.      Our interest rate derivative financial instruments, which may include swaps, rate locks, caps and collars, represent an integral part of our interest rate risk management program. Comcast s interest rate
derivative financial instruments reduced the portion of Comcast s total consolidated debt at fixed rates as of December 31, 2015 to 84.5% from 89.2%. NBCUniversal s interest rate derivative financial instruments reduced the portion of
NBCUniversal s total consolidated debt at fixed rates as of December 31, 2015 to 71.5% from 73.9%.      In 2015, 2014 and 2013,
the effect of our interest rate derivative financial instruments was to decrease Comcast s consolidated interest expense by $62 million, $66 million and $98 million, respectively. The effect of NBCUniversal s interest rate derivative
financial instruments was not material to NBCUniversal s consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. Interest rate derivative financial instruments may have a significant effect on Comcast s interest expense in the future.
     The table below summarizes as of December 31, 2015 the principal cash flows, notional amounts, fair values and contract terms of
financial instruments by contractual year of maturity subject to interest rate risk maintained by us.       
    The estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps in the table above includes $3 million associated with interest
rate swaps held by NBCUniversal.      We use the notional amount of each interest rate derivative financial instrument to calculate the
interest to be paid or received. The notional amounts do not represent our exposure to credit loss. The estimated fair value approximates the amount of payments to be made or proceeds to be received to settle the outstanding contracts, including
accrued interest. We estimate interest rates on variable rate debt and swaps using the   

Table of Contents  

relevant average implied forward rates through the year of maturity based on the yield curve in effect on December 31, 2015, plus the applicable borrowing margin on December 31, 2015.
     See Note 2 to each of Comcast s and NBCUniversal s consolidated financial statements for additional information on our
accounting policies for derivative financial instruments.       Foreign Exchange Risk Management    
      NBCUniversal has significant operations in
a number of countries outside the United States, and certain of NBCUniversal s operations are conducted in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. These changes could adversely affect the U.S.
dollar value of our non-U.S. dollar revenue and operating costs and expenses and reduce international demand for our content, all of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in a given period or in
specific territories.      As part of our overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of foreign exchange rate
fluctuations, NBCUniversal enters into derivative financial instruments related to a significant portion of its foreign currency exposure, resulting from transactions denominated in other than the functional currency. NBCUniversal enters into
foreign currency forward contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change to protect the U.S. dollar equivalent value of its foreign currency assets, liabilities, commitments, and forecasted foreign currency revenue and expenses. In
accordance with our policy, NBCUniversal hedges forecasted foreign currency transactions for periods generally not to exceed 18 months. In certain circumstances, NBCUniversal enters into foreign exchange contracts with initial maturities in excess
of 18 months. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, NBCUniversal had foreign exchange contracts with a total notional value of $998 million and $890 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the aggregate estimated fair value of
these foreign exchange contracts was not material.      We have analyzed our foreign currency exposure related to NBCUniversal s
operations as of December 31, 2015, including our hedging contracts, to identify assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than their functional currency. For those assets and liabilities, we then evaluated the effect of a 10%
shift in currency exchange rates between the functional currency and the U.S. dollar. Our analysis of such a shift in exchange rates indicated that there would be an immaterial effect on our 2015 income. In addition, the impact of fluctuations in
currencies relative to the U.S. dollar for our non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in 2015.   
  Comcast is also exposed to the market risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates as they relate to its foreign currency
denominated debt obligations. We use cross-currency swaps for foreign currency denominated debt obligations, when those obligations are denominated in other than the functional currency. Cross-currency swaps effectively convert fixed-rate foreign
currency denominated debt to fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, in order to hedge the risk that the cash flows related to annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency
exchange rates. The gains and losses on the cross-currency swaps offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related exposures. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of our cross-currency swaps on our
 625 million principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2029 was a liability of $71 million and an asset of $37 million, respectively.       Counterparty Credit Risk Management        
  Comcast and NBCUniversal manage the credit risks associated with our derivative financial instruments through diversification and the evaluation and
monitoring of the creditworthiness of counterparties. Although we may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we do not expect such   

Table of Contents  

losses, if any, to be significant. Comcast has agreements with certain counterparties that include collateral provisions. These provisions require a party with an aggregate unrealized loss
position in excess of certain thresholds to post cash collateral for the amount in excess of the threshold. The threshold levels in our collateral agreements are based on our and the counterparty s credit ratings. As of December 31, 2015
and 2014, Comcast was not required to post collateral under the terms of these agreements. As of December 31, 2015, we did not hold any collateral under the terms of these agreements.   

Table of Contents  

     I  tem 8: Comcast Corporation Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data       

Index  
      
  Page   

Report of Management    
      
  74   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  75   

Consolidated Balance Sheet    
      
  76   

Consolidated Statement of Income    
      
  77   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income    
      
  78   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
      
  79   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    
      
  80   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  81   
     NBCUniversal Media, LLC       See Index to NBCUniversal Media, LLC Financial Statements and Supplemental Data on page 143.   

Table of Contents  

     Report of Management   
         Management s Report on Comcast s Financial Statements    
  Our management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of information in Comcast s consolidated financial
statements, including estimates and judgments. The consolidated financial statements presented in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our management believes the Comcast
consolidated financial statements and other financial information included in this report fairly present, in all material respects, Comcast s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of and for the periods presented in this
report. The Comcast consolidated financial statements have been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included herein.   
   Management s Report on Comcast s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting. Our system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.   
  Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:   

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of our assets.

Provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and our directors.    

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.    
          Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial
reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Further, because of changes in conditions, effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting may vary over time. Our system contains
self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified.      Our management conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this evaluation, our management concluded that Comcast s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. Our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2015 did not include the internal controls of the Universal Studios Japan theme park, in which NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest on November 13, 2015, as permitted by Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines that
allow companies to exclude certain acquisitions from their assessment of internal control over financial reporting during the first year of an acquisition. The total assets and total revenues of Universal Studios Japan represented approximately 4%
of our total assets as of December 31, 2015, and less than 1% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. The effectiveness of Comcast s internal controls over financial reporting of Comcast has been audited by
Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included herein.       Audit
Committee Oversight       The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised solely of independent directors, has oversight
responsibility for our financial reporting process and the audits of Comcast s consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting. The Audit Committee meets regularly with management and with our internal auditors
and independent registered public accounting firm (collectively, the  auditors ) to review matters related to the quality and integrity of our financial reporting, internal control over financial reporting (including compliance matters
related to our Code of Conduct), and the nature, extent, and results of internal and external audits. Our auditors have full and free access and report directly to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee recommended, and the Board of Directors
approved, that the Comcast audited consolidated financial statements be included in this Form 10-K.       

Brian L. Roberts    
     
   Michael J. Cavanagh   
      
   Lawrence J. Salva    
 
    Chairman and  
  Chief Executive Officer   
     
    Senior Executive Vice President and     Chief
Financial Officer   
      
    Executive Vice President     and Chief
Accounting Officer    

Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
         To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of    
   Comcast Corporation        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Comcast Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. We also have audited the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. As described in the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at the Universal Studios Japan theme park, acquired on
November 13, 2015 and whose financial statements constitute approximately 4% of total assets as of December 31, 2015 and less than 1% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. Accordingly, our audit did not include the
internal control over financial reporting at Universal Studios Japan theme park. The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management s Report on Comcast s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Comcast
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission .         /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP       Philadelphia, Pennsylvania      February 5, 2016   

Table of Contents  

      Comcast Corporation       Consolidated Balance Sheet             
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      Comcast Corporation       Consolidated Statement of Income             
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      Comcast Corporation       Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income             
 
   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      Comcast Corporation       Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows             
 
   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      Comcast Corporation       Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity             
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      Comcast Corporation       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             Note 1: Business and Basis of Presentation        
  We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. We were incorporated under the laws of
Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963.      We present
our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments. The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and
Theme Parks segments comprise the NBCUniversal businesses (collectively, the  NBCUniversal segments ). See Note 18 for additional information on our reportable business segments.   
  Our Cable Communications segment primarily manages and operates cable systems that serve residential and business customers in the United States.
As of December 31, 2015, our cable systems had 27.7 million total customer relationships and served 22.3 million video customers, 23.3 million high-speed Internet customers and 11.5 million voice customers.   
  Our Cable Networks segment consists primarily of a diversified portfolio of cable television networks. Our cable networks are comprised of our
national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our cable television studio production operations.   
  Our Broadcast Television segment consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast
television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, and our broadcast television studio production operations.      Our Filmed
Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide. Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination and Focus Features names.   
  Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. In November 2015,
NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest in the Universal Studios theme park in Osaka, Japan ( Universal Studios Japan ). Our Theme Parks segment also receives fees from our agreements with third parties that own and operate the Universal
Studios Singapore theme park, as well as from the Universal Studios Japan theme park, to license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property.   
  Our other business interests, which are included in Corporate and Other, consist primarily of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers
and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses.       Basis of Presentation
      The accompanying consolidated financial statements include all entities in which we have a controlling voting interest and variable
interest entities ( VIEs ) required to be consolidated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ).      We translate assets and liabilities of our foreign operations where the functional currency is the local currency, primarily the euro, British pound, and Japanese yen, into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate as of
the balance sheet date and translate revenue and expenses using average monthly exchange rates. The related   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Any foreign currency transaction gains and
losses are included in our consolidated statement of income.       Reclassifications    
  Reclassifications have been made to our consolidated financial statements for the prior years to conform to classifications used in 2015.
      Note 2: Accounting Policies    
      Our consolidated financial statements are
prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to select accounting policies, including in certain cases industry-specific policies, and make estimates that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the
related disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the judgments and related estimates for the following items are critical in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements:       

valuation and impairment testing of cable franchise rights (see Note 9)    

film and television costs (see Note 6)    
          In addition, the following accounting policies are specific to the industries in
which we operate:       

capitalization and amortization of film and television costs (see Note 6)    

installation revenue and costs for connecting customers to our cable systems (see revenue recognition below and Note 8)    
          Information on our other accounting policies and methods that are used in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements are included, where applicable, in their respective footnotes that follow. Below is a discussion of accounting policies and methods used in our consolidated financial statements that are not
presented within other footnotes.       Revenue Recognition       Cable Communications Segment      Our Cable Communications segment generates revenue
primarily from subscriptions to our video, high-speed Internet and voice services ( cable services ) and from the sale of advertising. We recognize revenue from cable services as each service is provided. Customers are typically billed in
advance on a monthly basis based on the services and features they receive and the type of equipment they use. Since installation revenue obtained from the connection of customers to our cable systems is less than the related direct selling costs,
we recognize revenue as connections are completed. We manage credit risk by screening applicants through the use of internal customer information, identification verification tools and credit bureau data. If a customer s account is delinquent,
various measures are used to collect outstanding amounts, including termination of the customer s cable services.      As part of our
distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that our Spotlight business sells to local, regional and national advertisers. We recognize advertising revenue when the
advertising is aired or viewed. In most cases, the available advertising units are sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to
us. We also represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets. Since we are acting as the principal in   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  these arrangements, we record the advertising that is sold in revenue and the fees paid to representation firms and multichannel video providers in
other operating and administrative expenses.      Revenue earned from other sources, such as our home security and automation services, is
recognized when services are provided or events occur. Under the terms of our cable franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the cable franchising authority an amount based on our gross video revenue. We normally pass these fees
through to our cable services customers and classify the fees as a component of revenue with the corresponding costs included in other operating and administrative expenses.      Cable Networks and Broadcast Television Segments      Our Cable Networks segment generates
revenue primarily from the distribution of our cable network programming to multichannel video providers, from the sale of advertising on our cable networks and related digital media properties, from the licensing of our owned programming through
various distribution platforms, from the sale of our owned programming through digital distribution services such as iTunes, and from the programming our cable production studio sells to third-party networks and subscription video on demand
services. Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising on our broadcast networks, owned local broadcast television stations and related digital media properties, from the licensing of our owned
programming through various distribution platforms, including to cable and broadcast networks, from the fees received under retransmission consent agreements and from the programming our broadcast television production studio sells to third-party
networks and subscription video on demand services. We recognize revenue from distributors as programming is provided, generally under multiyear distribution agreements. From time to time, the distribution agreements expire while programming
continues to be provided to the distributor based on interim arrangements while the parties negotiate new contract terms. Revenue recognition is generally limited to current payments being made by the distributor, typically under the prior contract
terms, until a new contract is negotiated, sometimes with effective dates that affect prior periods. Differences between actual amounts determined upon resolution of negotiations and amounts recorded during these interim arrangements are recorded in
the period of resolution.      Advertising revenue for our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments is recognized in the period in
which commercials are aired or viewed. In some instances, we guarantee audience ratings for the commercials. To the extent there is a shortfall in the ratings that were guaranteed, a portion of the revenue is deferred until the shortfall is settled,
primarily by providing additional advertising units. We recognize revenue from the licensing of our owned programming and programming produced by our studios for third parties when the content is available for use by the licensee, and when certain
other conditions are met. When license fees include advertising time, we recognize the component of revenue associated with the advertisements when they are aired or viewed.      Filmed Entertainment Segment      Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue
primarily from the worldwide distribution of our produced and acquired films for exhibition in movie theaters, from the licensing of our owned and acquired films through various distribution platforms, and from the sale of our owned and acquired
films on standard-definition video discs and Blu-ray discs (together,  DVDs ) and through digital distribution services. Our Filmed Entertainment segment also generates revenue from producing and licensing live stage plays, from the
distribution of filmed entertainment produced by third parties, and from Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business. We recognize revenue from the distribution of films to movie theaters when the films are exhibited. We recognize
revenue from the licensing of a film when the film is available for use by the licensee, and when certain other conditions are met. We recognize revenue from DVD sales, net of estimated returns and customer incentives, on the date that DVDs are
delivered to and made available for sale by retailers.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Theme Parks Segment      Our Theme Parks
segment generates revenue primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and, as of November 2015, Osaka, Japan, as well as from licensing and other fees. We recognize revenue
from advance theme park ticket sales when the tickets are used. For annual passes, we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis over the period following the activation date.       Cable Communications Programming Expenses       Cable Communications programming expenses are the
fees we pay to license the programming we distribute to our video customers. Programming is generally acquired under multiyear distribution agreements, with rates typically based on the number of customers that receive the programming, channel
positioning and the extent of distribution. From time to time, these contracts expire and programming continues to be provided under interim arrangements while the parties negotiate new contract terms, sometimes with effective dates that affect
prior periods. While payments are typically made under the prior contract s terms, the amount of programming expenses recorded during these interim arrangements is based on our estimates of the ultimate contract terms expected to be negotiated.
Differences between actual amounts determined upon resolution of negotiations and amounts recorded during these interim arrangements are recorded in the period of resolution.      When our Cable Communications segment receives incentives from cable networks for the licensing of their programming, we defer a portion of these incentives, which are included in other current and noncurrent
liabilities, and recognize them over the term of the contract as a reduction to programming expenses.       Advertising Expenses    
  Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.   
   Cash Equivalents       The carrying amounts of
our cash equivalents approximate their fair values. Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and U.S. government obligations, as well as commercial paper and certificates of deposit with maturities of three months or less when
purchased.       Derivative Financial Instruments       We use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to the risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. Our objective is to manage the financial and
operational exposure arising from these risks by offsetting gains and losses on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivatives used to economically hedge them.   
  Our derivative financial instruments are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The impact of our derivative financial
instruments on our consolidated financial statements was not material for all periods presented.       Asset Retirement Obligations    
  Certain of our cable franchise agreements and lease agreements contain provisions requiring us to restore facilities or remove property in the event
that the franchise or lease agreement is not renewed. We expect to continually renew our cable franchise agreements and therefore cannot reasonably estimate any liabilities associated with such agreements. A remote possibility exists that franchise
agreements could be terminated unexpectedly, which could result in us incurring significant expense in complying with restoration or removal provisions. We do not have any significant liabilities related to asset retirements recorded in our
consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 3: Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
       Revenue Recognition    
  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) updated the accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The updated
accounting guidance provides a single, contract-based revenue recognition model to help improve financial reporting by providing clearer guidance on when an entity should recognize revenue, and by reducing the number of standards to which an entity
has to refer. In July 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date by one year to December 15, 2017 for annual reporting periods beginning after that date. The updated accounting guidance provides companies with alternative methods of
adoption. We are currently in the process of determining the impact that the updated accounting guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements and our method of adoption.       Consolidations       In February 2015, the FASB updated the accounting guidance related to
consolidation under the variable interest entity and voting interest entity models. The updated accounting guidance modifies the consolidation guidance for VIEs, limited partnerships and similar legal entities. The updated guidance is effective for
us as of January 1, 2016. The updated accounting guidance provides companies with alternative methods of adoption. We do not expect the updated accounting guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
   Debt Issuance Costs       In April 2015, the FASB
updated the accounting guidance related to the balance sheet presentation of debt issuance costs. The updated accounting guidance requires that debt issuance costs be presented as a direct deduction from the associated debt obligation. We have
adopted this guidance as of December 31, 2015 and as a result we have reclassified unamortized debt issuance costs of $153 million as of December 31, 2014 from other noncurrent assets to a reduction of long-term debt on our consolidated
balance sheet. As of December 31, 2015, unamortized debt issuance costs included in long-term debt was $176 million.       Deferred Income Taxes
      In November 2015, the FASB updated the accounting guidance related to the balance sheet presentation of deferred taxes. The updated
accounting guidance requires that all deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The current requirement that deferred tax liabilities and assets of a tax-paying component of an entity be offset
and presented as a single amount is not affected by the amendments in this update. We have adopted this guidance prospectively as of December 31, 2015. Therefore, prior periods have not been adjusted to reflect this adoption. If we had
retrospectively adopted this guidance, $195 million of current deferred tax assets would have been reclassified from current assets to long-term liabilities as of December 31, 2014.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 4: Earnings Per Share    
      Computation of Diluted EPS   
   
    Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Comcast Corporation shareholders ( diluted EPS )
considers the impact of potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. Our potentially dilutive securities include potential common shares related to our stock options and our restricted share units ( RSUs ). Diluted EPS
excludes the impact of potential common shares related to our stock options in periods in which the combination of the option exercise price and the associated unrecognized compensation expense is greater than the average market price of our common
stock.      The amount of potential common shares related to our share-based compensation plans that were excluded from diluted EPS because
their effect would have been antidilutive was not material for 2015, 2014 and 2013.       Note 5: Significant Transactions    
       2015    
  Universal Studios Japan      On
November 13, 2015, NBCUniversal acquired a 51% economic interest in Universal Studios Japan for $1.5 billion. The acquisition was funded through cash on hand and borrowings under our commercial paper program.   
  Universal Studios Japan is a VIE based on the governance structure and we consolidate Universal Studios Japan as we have the power to direct
activities that most significantly impact its economic performance. There are no liquidity arrangements, guarantees, or other financial commitments between us and Universal Studios Japan, and therefore our maximum risk of financial loss is
NBCUniversal s 51% interest. Universal Studios Japan s results of operations are reported in our Theme Parks segment following the acquisition date.       Preliminary Allocation of Purchase Price       Due to the limited amount of time
since the date of acquisition, the assets and liabilities of Universal Studios Japan were recorded at their historical carrying values. We will adjust these amounts to fair value as valuations are completed and we obtain information necessary to
complete the analyses, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. The 49% noncontrolling interest in Universal Studios Japan is recorded in the   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  equity section of our consolidated financial statements and has been recorded based on the total value of Universal Studios Japan implied in the
transaction. For purposes of this preliminary allocation, the excess of the total value implied in the transaction over the historical carrying value has been recorded as goodwill.   
  The table below presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities of Universal Studios Japan.   
  Preliminary Allocation of Purchase Price       
     Actual and Unaudited Pro Forma Results    
  Our consolidated revenue and net income attributable to Comcast Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2015 included $169 million and $18
million, respectively, from the acquisition of Universal Studios Japan.      The following unaudited pro forma information has been
presented as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2014. This information is based on historical results of operations and is subject to change as valuations are completed and additional analysis is obtained. In addition, the unaudited pro
forma accounting adjustments are not necessarily indicative of what our results would have been had we operated Universal Studios Japan since January 1, 2014. No pro forma adjustments have been made for our transaction-related expenses.
      
    Time Warner Cable Merger and Related Divestiture Transactions   
  On April 24, 2015, we and Time Warner Cable Inc. terminated our planned merger, and we terminated our related agreement with Charter
Communications, Inc. to spin off, exchange and sell certain cable systems. In connection with these proposed transactions, we incurred incremental transaction-related expenses of $198 million and $237 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The
transaction-related expenses are reflected primarily in other operating and administrative expenses, with $20 million recorded in depreciation and amortization expenses associated with the write-off of certain capitalized costs in 2015.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   2013       NBCUniversal Redemption Transaction
     On March 19, 2013, we acquired General Electric Company s ( GE ) 49% common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings
that we did not already own for approximately $16.7 billion (the  NBCUniversal redemption transaction ). In addition to the NBCUniversal redemption transaction, NBCUniversal purchased from GE certain properties NBCUniversal occupies at 30
Rockefeller Plaza in New York City and CNBC s headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey for $1.4 billion.      The total
consideration for these transactions consisted of $11.4 billion of cash on hand; $4 billion of senior debt securities issued by NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. ( NBCUniversal Enterprise ), a holding company that we control and consolidate
following the close of the NBCUniversal redemption transaction whose principal assets are its interests in NBCUniversal Holdings; $750 million of cash funded through our commercial paper program; $1.25 billion of borrowings under NBCUniversal
Enterprise s credit facility, which replaced NBCUniversal s credit facility; and $725 million aggregate liquidation preference of Series A cumulative preferred stock of NBCUniversal Enterprise. See Note 20 for additional information on our
cross-guarantee structure.      Because we maintained control of NBCUniversal Holdings, the difference between the consideration transferred
and the recorded value of GE s 49% redeemable noncontrolling common equity interest, and the related tax impacts, were recorded to additional paid-in capital.      The NBCUniversal Enterprise preferred stock pays dividends at a fixed rate of 5.25% per annum. The holders have the right to cause NBCUniversal Enterprise to redeem their shares at a price equal to the
liquidation preference plus accrued but unpaid dividends for a 30 day period beginning on March 19, 2020 and thereafter on every third anniversary of such date (each such date, a  put date ). Shares of preferred stock can be called
for redemption by NBCUniversal Enterprise at a price equal to the liquidation preference plus accrued but unpaid dividends one year following each put date applicable to such shares. Because certain of these redemption provisions are outside of our
control, the NBCUniversal Enterprise preferred stock is presented outside of equity under the caption  redeemable noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock  in our consolidated balance sheet. Its initial value was
based on the liquidation preference of the preferred stock and is adjusted for accrued but unpaid dividends. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of the NBCUniversal Enterprise redeemable subsidiary preferred stock was $758 million
and $751 million, respectively. The estimated fair values are based on Level 2 inputs that use pricing models whose inputs are derived primarily from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation or other means for substantially the
full term of the financial instrument.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 6: Film and Television Costs    
       
    Based on our current estimates of the total remaining gross revenue from all sources ( ultimate
revenue ), in 2016 we expect to amortize approximately $1.5 billion of film and television costs associated with our original film and television productions that have been released, or completed and not yet released. Through 2018, we expect to
amortize approximately 87% of unamortized film and television costs for our released productions, excluding amounts allocated to acquired libraries.      As of December 31, 2015, acquired film and television libraries, which are included within the  released, less amortization  captions in the table above, had remaining unamortized costs of $449
million. These costs are generally amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years, and approximately 49% of these costs are expected to be amortized through 2018.       Capitalization of Film and Television Costs       We capitalize film and television production
costs, including direct costs, production overhead, print costs, development costs and interest. We amortize capitalized film and television production costs, including acquired libraries, and accrue costs associated with participation and residual
payments to programming and production expenses. We generally record the amortization and the accrued costs using the individual film forecast computation method, which amortizes such costs in the same ratio as the associated ultimate revenue.
Estimates of ultimate revenue and total costs are based on anticipated release patterns, public acceptance and historical results for similar productions. Unamortized film and television costs, including acquired film and television libraries, are
stated at the lower of unamortized cost or fair value. We do not capitalize costs related to the distribution of a film in movie theaters or the licensing or sale of a film or television production, which are primarily costs associated with the
marketing and distribution of film and television programming.      In determining the estimated lives and method of amortization of
acquired film and television libraries, we generally use the method and the life that most closely follow the undiscounted cash flows over the estimated life of the asset.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Upon the occurrence of an event or a change in circumstance that was known or knowable as of the balance sheet date and that indicates the fair
value of a film is less than its unamortized costs, we determine the fair value of the film and record an impairment charge for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the film s fair value.   
  We enter into cofinancing arrangements with third parties to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions. Cofinancing
arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor. The number of investors and the terms of these arrangements can vary, although investors generally assume full risk for the
portion of the film acquired in these arrangements. We account for the proceeds received from a third-party investor under these arrangements as a reduction to our capitalized film costs. In these arrangements, the investor owns an undivided
copyright interest in the film, and therefore in each period we record either a charge or a benefit to programming and production expenses to reflect the estimate of the third-party investor s interest in the profit or loss of the film. The
estimate of the third-party investor s interest in the profit or loss of a film is determined using the ratio of actual revenue earned to date to the ultimate revenue expected to be recognized over the film s useful life.   
  We capitalize the costs of programming content that we license but do not own, including rights to multiyear, live-event sports programming, at the
earlier of when payments are made for the programming or when the license period begins and the content is available for use. We amortize capitalized programming costs as the associated programs are broadcast. We amortize multiyear, live-event
sports programming rights using the ratio of the current period revenue to the estimated ultimate revenue or under the terms of the contract.      Acquired programming costs are recorded at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value on a program by program, package, channel or daypart basis. A daypart is an aggregation of programs broadcast during
a particular time of day or programs of a similar type. Programming acquired by our Cable Networks segment is primarily tested on a channel basis for impairment, whereas programming acquired by our Broadcast Television segment is tested on a daypart
basis. If we determine that the estimates of future cash flows are insufficient or if there is no plan to broadcast certain programming, we recognize an impairment charge to programming and production expenses.   
   Note 7: Investments        

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Investment Income (Loss), Net       
     Fair Value Method       We classify publicly traded investments that are not accounted for under the equity method as available-for-sale ( AFS ) or trading securities and record them at fair value. For AFS securities, we record
unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value between measurement dates as a component of other comprehensive income (loss), except when we consider declines in value to be other than temporary. For trading securities, we record
unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value between measurement dates as a component of investment income (loss), net. We recognize realized gains and losses associated with our fair value method investments using the specific
identification method. We classify the cash flows related to purchases of and proceeds from the sale of trading securities based on the nature of the securities and the purpose for which they were acquired.   
  Prepaid Forward Sale Agreements       

December 31 (in millions)  
      
  2014  

Assets:   

Fair value equity securities held as collateral   
      
  $  
  523  

Liabilities:   

Obligations under prepaid forward sale agreements   
      
  $  
  119  

Derivative component of prepaid forward sale agreements   

356  

Total liabilities   
      
  $  
   475  
       
    During 2015, we settled our remaining obligations under our prepaid forward sale agreements by delivering equity
securities. As of December 31, 2015, we have no remaining liabilities related to these obligations.      As of December 31, 2014,
the majority of our fair value method investments were equity securities that we accounted for as trading securities and were held as collateral related to our obligations under prepaid forward sale agreements. As of December 31, 2014, the
carrying value of our remaining prepaid forward sale obligations approximated their fair value. The estimated fair values were based on Level 2 inputs that use pricing models whose inputs were derived primarily from or corroborated by observable
market data through correlation or other means for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.      The derivative component of
the prepaid forward sale agreements were equity derivative financial instruments embedded in the related contracts, which we used to manage our exposure to and benefits from price fluctuations in the common stock of the related investments. For
these derivative financial instruments, we separated the derivative component from the host contract and recorded in each period the change in its value to investment income (loss), net.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Liberty Media      In October 2013,
Liberty Media Corporation ( Liberty Media ) redeemed 6.3 million shares of Liberty Media Series A common stock ( Liberty stock ) that had been held by us as collateral under certain of our prepaid forward sale agreements in
exchange for all of the equity of a subsidiary of Liberty Media. The fair value of the Liberty stock at the date of the close of the transaction was $937 million. The assets of the subsidiary of Liberty Media included cash of $417 million, Liberty
Media s interests in one of NBCUniversal s contractual obligations and a wholly owned operating subsidiary, Leisure Arts, Inc. Following the close of this transaction, we now consolidate the subsidiary transferred to us, and the liability
associated with NBCUniversal s contractual obligation is eliminated in consolidation.      Clearwire LLC   
  In July 2013, in connection with Sprint Communications, Inc. s ( Sprint ) acquisition of Clearwire Corporation
( Clearwire ), Sprint acquired our investment of 89 million Class A shares of Clearwire for $443 million. As a result, we recognized a pretax gain of $443 million in our consolidated statement of income, which represented the
recognition of cumulative unrealized gains previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).       Equity Method    
  We use the equity method to account for investments in which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee s
operating and financial policies or where we hold significant partnership or LLC interests. Equity method investments are recorded at cost and are adjusted to recognize (1) our proportionate share of the investee s net income or loss after
the date of investment, (2) amortization of the recorded investment that exceeds our share of the book value of the investee s net assets, (3) additional contributions made and dividends received, and (4) impairments resulting
from other-than-temporary declines in fair value. For some investments, we record our share of the investee s net income or loss one quarter in arrears due to the timing of our receipt of such information. Gains or losses on the sale of equity
method investments are recorded to other income (expense), net. If an equity method investee were to issue additional securities that would change our proportionate share of the entity, we would recognize the change, if any, as a gain or loss in our
consolidated statement of income.      The Weather Channel      In June and December 2015, TWCC Holding Corp. ( The Weather Channel ) recorded impairment charges related to goodwill. During 2015, we recorded expenses of $333 million that represent NBCUniversal s
proportionate share of these impairment charges in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net in our consolidated statement of income. On January 29, 2016, IBM acquired The Weather Channel s product and technology businesses. The
Weather Channel cable network was not acquired and, following the close of the transaction, licenses weather forecast data and analytics from IBM.      In June 2013, we received a distribution from The Weather Channel of $152 million, of which $128 million was recorded as a return of our investment in The Weather Channel and included in other investing activities
in our consolidated statement of cash flows.      Hulu      In July 2013, we entered into an agreement to provide capital contributions totaling $247 million to Hulu, LLC ( Hulu ), which we had previously accounted for as a cost method investment. This represented
an agreement to provide our first capital contribution to Hulu since we acquired our interest in it as part of our acquisition of a controlling interest in NBCUniversal Holdings in 2011 (the  NBCUniversal transaction  therefore, we began
to apply the equity method of accounting for this investment. The change in the method of accounting for this investment required us to recognize our proportionate share of Hulu s accumulated losses from the date of the NBCUniversal transaction
through July 2013.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized our proportionate share of losses of $106 million, $20 million and $142 million, respectively, related to our
investment in Hulu.       Cost Method    
  We use the cost method to account for investments not accounted for under the fair value method or the equity method.   
  Vox and BuzzFeed      In September
2015, NBCUniversal made an additional investment in Vox Media, Inc. ( Vox Media ) and acquired an interest in BuzzFeed, Inc. ( BuzzFeed ) for $200 million each in cash. Vox Media is a digital media company comprised of eight
distinct brands. BuzzFeed is a global media company that produces and distributes original news, entertainment and videos.      AirTouch
     We hold two series of preferred stock of Verizon Americas, Inc., formerly known as AirTouch Communications, Inc. ( AirTouch ),
a subsidiary of Verizon Communications Inc., which are redeemable in April 2020. As of both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the estimated fair value of the AirTouch preferred stock was $1.7 billion.   
  The dividend and redemption activity of the AirTouch preferred stock determines the dividend and redemption payments associated with substantially
all of the preferred shares issued by one of our consolidated subsidiaries, which is a VIE. The subsidiary has three series of preferred stock outstanding with an aggregate redemption value of $1.75 billion. Substantially all of the AirTouch
preferred stock is redeemable in April 2020 at a redemption value of $1.65 billion. As of both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the two series of redeemable subsidiary preferred shares were recorded at $1.6 billion, and those amounts are included in
other noncurrent liabilities. As of both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the liability related to the redeemable subsidiary preferred shares had an aggregate estimated fair value of $1.7 billion. The estimated fair values of the AirTouch preferred
stock and redeemable subsidiary preferred shares are based on Level 2 inputs that use pricing models whose inputs are derived primarily from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation or other means for substantially the full term
of the financial instrument. The one nonredeemable series of subsidiary preferred shares was recorded at $100 million as of both December 31, 2015 and 2014, and those amounts are included in noncontrolling interests in our consolidated balance
sheet. The carrying amount of the nonredeemable subsidiary preferred stock approximates its fair value.       Impairment Testing of Investments
      We review our investment portfolio each reporting period to determine whether there are identified events or circumstances that
would indicate there is a decline in the fair value that would be considered other than temporary. For our nonpublic investments, if there are no identified events or circumstances that would have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of
the investment, then the fair value is not estimated. If an investment is deemed to have experienced an other-than-temporary decline below its cost basis, we reduce the carrying amount of the investment to its quoted or estimated fair value, as
applicable, and establish a new cost basis for the investment. For our AFS and cost method investments, we record the impairment to investment income (loss), net. For our equity method investments, we record the impairment to other income (expense),
net. In 2013, we recorded $249 million of impairment charges to our equity method investments, which primarily related to a regional sports cable network based in Houston, Texas.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 8: Property and Equipment    
       
    Property and equipment are stated at cost. We capitalize improvements that extend asset lives and expense repairs
and maintenance costs as incurred. We record depreciation using the straight-line method over the asset s estimated useful life. For assets that are sold or retired, we remove the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation and, unless the
gain or loss on disposition is presented separately, we recognize it as a component of depreciation expense.      In accordance with
accounting guidance related to cable television companies, we capitalize the costs associated with the construction of and improvements to our cable transmission and distribution facilities, costs associated with acquiring and deploying new customer
premise equipment, and costs associated with installation of our services. Costs capitalized include all direct costs for labor and materials, as well as various indirect costs. All costs incurred in connection with subsequent disconnects and
reconnects are expensed as they are incurred.      We evaluate the recoverability of our property and equipment whenever events or
substantive changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on the cash flows generated by the underlying asset groups, including estimated future operating results, trends or other
determinants of fair value. If the total of the expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset group, we would recognize an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount of the asset group exceeded its
estimated fair value. Unless presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a component of depreciation expense.       Acquisitions of Real
Estate Properties       Real estate acquisitions in 2013 included NBCUniversal s purchase from GE of certain properties NBCUniversal
occupies at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City and CNBC s headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Other purchases in 2013 included NBCUniversal s acquisition of a business whose primary asset is a property located at 10 Universal
City Plaza, which is adjacent to our Universal theme park in Hollywood, California, and our acquisition of an 80% interest in a business whose primary asset is our corporate headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The purchase price of these
acquisitions is included in the caption  acquisitions and construction of real estate properties  in our consolidated statement of cash flows.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 9: Goodwill and Intangible Assets    
       Goodwill    

(a)  
     
    Adjustments to goodwill in 2015 and 2014 included foreign currency translation. Adjustments to goodwill in 2014 included the reclassification of Fandango, our
movie ticketing and entertainment business, from our Cable Networks segment to our Filmed Entertainment segment.          

(b)  
     
    Acquisitions in 2015 in our Theme Parks segment related to the Universal Studios Japan transaction (see Note 5 for additional information).
        We assess the recoverability of our goodwill annually, or more frequently whenever events or substantive changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. To determine our reporting units, we evaluate the components one level below the segment
level and we aggregate the components if they have similar economic characteristics. As a result of this assessment, our reporting units are the same as our five reportable segments. We evaluate the determination of our reporting units used to test
for impairment periodically or whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances occur. The assessment of recoverability may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a
determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. A quantitative assessment is performed if the qualitative assessment results in a more-likely-than-not determination or if a
qualitative assessment is not performed. The quantitative assessment considers if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, in which case an impairment charge is recorded to the extent the carrying amount of the reporting
unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Unless presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a component of amortization expense.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Intangible Assets        
    Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets      Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of our cable franchise rights, as well as trade names and FCC licenses. Our cable franchise rights represent the values we attributed to agreements with state
and local authorities that allow access to homes and businesses in cable service areas acquired in business combinations. We do not amortize our cable franchise rights because we have determined that they meet the definition of indefinite-lived
intangible assets since there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which limit the period over which these rights will contribute to our cash flows. We reassess this determination periodically or whenever
events or substantive changes in circumstances occur. Costs we incur in negotiating and renewing cable franchise agreements are included in other intangible assets and are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the franchise
agreement.      We assess the recoverability of our cable franchise rights and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually, or more
frequently whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. Our three Cable Communications divisions represent the unit of account we use to test for impairment for our cable franchise rights. We
evaluate the unit of account used to test for impairment of our cable franchise rights and other indefinite-lived intangible assets periodically or whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances occur to ensure impairment testing is
performed at an appropriate level. The assessment of recoverability may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount.
A quantitative assessment is performed if the qualitative assessment results in a more-likely-than-not determination or if a qualitative assessment is not performed. When performing a quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of our cable
franchise rights and other indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily based on a discounted cash flow analysis that involves significant judgment. When analyzing the fair values indicated under the discounted cash flow models, we also consider
multiples of operating income before depreciation and amortization generated by the underlying assets, current market transactions, and profitability information. If the fair value of our cable franchise rights or other indefinite-lived intangible
assets were less than the carrying amount, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets. Unless presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a
component of amortization expense. We did not recognize any material impairment charges in any of the periods presented.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Finite-Lived Intangible Assets   
  Estimated Amortization Expense of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets       
    Finite-lived intangible assets are subject to amortization and consist primarily of customer relationships acquired
in business combinations, software, cable franchise renewal costs, contractual operating rights and intellectual property rights. Our finite-lived intangible assets are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life or
the term of the associated agreement.      We capitalize direct development costs associated with internal-use software, including external
direct costs of material and services and payroll costs for employees devoting time to these software projects. We also capitalize costs associated with the purchase of software licenses. We include these costs in other intangible assets and
generally amortize them on a straight-line basis over a period not to exceed five years. We expense maintenance and training costs, as well as costs incurred during the preliminary stage of a project, as they are incurred. We capitalize initial
operating system software costs and amortize them over the life of the associated hardware.      We evaluate the recoverability of our
finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on the cash flows generated by the underlying asset groups, including estimated
future operating results, trends or other determinants of fair value. If the total of the expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset group, we would recognize an impairment charge to the extent the
carrying amount of the asset group exceeded its estimated fair value. Unless presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a component of amortization expense.     

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 10: Long-Term Debt        
  Long-Term Debt Outstanding       

(b)  
     
    Includes the effects of our derivative financial instruments.         As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, our debt had an estimated fair value of $58.0 billion and $55.3 billion, respectively. The estimated fair value of our publicly traded debt is primarily based on Level 1
inputs that use quoted market values for the debt. The estimated fair value of debt for which there are no quoted market prices is based on Level 2 inputs that use interest rates available to us for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities.
See Note 20 for additional information on our cross-guarantee structure.      Debt Principal Maturities   
   
    2015 Debt Borrowings       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  2015 Debt Redemptions and Repayments       

(a)  
     
    The early redemption of these senior notes resulted in $47 million of additional interest expense in 2015.      
   Debt Instruments       Revolving Credit
Facilities      As of December 31, 2015, Comcast and Comcast Cable Communications, LLC had a $6.25 billion revolving credit facility due
June 2017 with a syndicate of banks ( Comcast revolving credit facility ). The interest rate on this facility consists of a base rate plus a borrowing margin that is determined based on our credit rating. As of December 31, 2015, the
borrowing margin for London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) based borrowings was 1.00%. This revolving credit facility requires that we maintain certain financial ratios based on our debt and our operating income before depreciation and
amortization, as defined in the credit facility. We were in compliance with all financial covenants for all periods presented.      As of
December 31, 2015, NBCUniversal Enterprise had a $1.35 billion revolving credit facility due March 2018 with a syndicate of banks ( NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility ). The interest rate on this facility consists of a
base rate plus a borrowing margin that is determined based on our credit rating. As of December 31, 2015, the borrowing margin for LIBOR-based borrowings was 1.00%.      As of December 31, 2015, amounts available under our consolidated credit facilities, net of amounts outstanding under our commercial paper programs and outstanding letters of credit, totaled $6.4 billion,
which included $775 million available under the NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility.      Term Loans   
  As a result of the Universal Studios Japan transaction, we consolidated  400 billion of term loans having a final maturity of November 2020. In
accordance with acquisition accounting, these debt securities were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. These term loans contain financial and operating covenants and are secured by the assets of Universal Studios Japan and the equity
interests of the investors. We do not guarantee these term loans and they are otherwise nonrecourse to us.      Commercial Paper Programs
     Our commercial paper programs provide a lower-cost source of borrowing to fund our short-term working capital requirements. The maximum
borrowing capacity under the Comcast commercial paper program is $6.25 billion and it is supported by the Comcast revolving credit facility. The maximum borrowing capacity under the NBCUniversal Enterprise commercial paper program is $1.35 billion
and it is supported by the NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility.      Letters of Credit   
  As of December 31, 2015, we and certain of our subsidiaries had unused irrevocable standby letters of credit totaling $464 million to cover
potential fundings under various agreements.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 11: Fair Value Measurements    
      The accounting guidance related to
financial assets and financial liabilities ( financial instruments ) establishes a hierarchy that prioritizes fair value measurements based on the types of inputs used for the various valuation techniques (market approach, income approach
and cost approach). The levels of the hierarchy are described below.       

Level 1: Consists of financial instruments whose values are based on quoted market prices for identical financial instruments in an active market.

Level 2: Consists of financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models use inputs that are observable either
directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include (1) quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, (2) quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, (3) pricing models
whose inputs are observable for substantially the full term of the financial instrument and (4) pricing models whose inputs are derived primarily from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation or other means for
substantially the full term of the financial instrument.    

Level 3: Consists of financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models that use significant inputs that are primarily unobservable,
discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.    
          Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value
measurement requires judgment and may affect the valuation of financial instruments and their classification within the fair value hierarchy. Financial instruments are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is
significant to the fair value measurement. There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented. Our financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value on a
recurring basis are presented in the table below.      Recurring Fair Value Measurements   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Contractual Obligation       As a result of the
acquisition of the Universal Orlando theme park in 2011, we assumed a contractual obligation that involves an interest held by a third party in the revenue of certain theme parks. The arrangement provides the counterparty with the right to periodic
payments associated with current period revenue and, beginning in 2017, the option to require NBCUniversal to purchase the interest for cash in an amount based on a contractually specified formula. The arrangement was recognized at fair value at the
time of the acquisition and the fair value has been adjusted periodically since the acquisition with the expectation that the arrangement would be settled in 2017, or shortly thereafter. It has a current carrying value of $1.1 billion and
adjustments to fair value, as well as the periodic payments, have been presented in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of income.      As a result of the continuing process of obtaining additional information and revising estimates, including in 2015 the estimated impact on the arrangement of the Universal Studios Japan transaction and the planned
development of a theme park in China, we no longer expect the settlement of the arrangement in 2017, or shortly thereafter. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we concluded that we should no longer adjust the arrangement to fair value and it
is no longer presented in the recurring fair value measurements table. We also concluded that the amounts that are payable based on current period revenue should be presented in other operating and administrative expenses. We believe these changes
are preferable because they better reflect the economic substance of the arrangement as a revenue participation similar to those that exist in our film and television agreements. The change in our method of accounting coupled with the change in
likelihood of the settlement result in the method being applied prospectively, similar to a change in estimate. See Note 18 for the treatment of this change in method in our segment reporting presentation.   
   Contingent Consideration       In June 2015, we
settled a contingent consideration liability related to the acquisition of NBCUniversal, which was based upon future net tax benefits realized by us that would affect future payments to GE, for a payment of $450 million, which is included as a
financing activity in our consolidated statement of cash flows. The settlement resulted in a gain of $240 million, which was recorded to other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of income.   
   Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements       We
have assets that are required to be recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when certain circumstances occur. In the case of film, television or stage play production costs, when an event or change in circumstance occurs that may indicate
that the fair value of a production is less than its unamortized costs, we determine the fair value of the production and record an adjustment for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the production s fair value. The
estimated fair value of a production is based on Level 3 inputs that primarily use an analysis of future expected cash flows. Adjustments to capitalized film and stage play production costs of $42 million, $26 million and $167 million were recorded
in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 12: Postretirement, Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans    
      The table below provides condensed
information on our postretirement and pension benefit plans.       

(a)  
     
    The fair value of the plan assets are primarily based on Level 1 inputs that use quoted market prices for identical financial instruments in an active market.
         Postretirement Benefit Plans       We sponsor various benefit plans that provide postretirement benefits to eligible employees based on years of service. The Comcast Postretirement Healthcare Stipend Program (the  stipend plan ) provides
an annual stipend for reimbursement of healthcare costs to each eligible employee based on years of service. Under the stipend plan, we are not exposed to the increasing costs of healthcare because the benefits are fixed at a predetermined amount.
     NBCUniversal s postretirement medical and life insurance plans provide continuous coverage to employees eligible to receive such
benefits. A small number of eligible employees also participate in legacy plans of acquired companies.      All of our postretirement
benefit plans are unfunded and substantially all of our postretirement benefit obligations are recorded to noncurrent liabilities. The expense we recognize for our postretirement benefit plans is determined using certain assumptions, including the
discount rate.       Pension Plans    
  NBCUniversal      NBCUniversal sponsors
various qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans for domestic employees for which future benefits have been frozen since the beginning of 2013, therefore we did not recognize service costs related to our pension plans for the periods
presented. The expense we recognize for our defined benefit plans is determined using certain assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We recognize the funded or unfunded status of our
defined benefit plans as an asset or liability in our consolidated balance sheet and recognize changes in the funded status in the year in which the changes occur in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). In addition to the defined benefit
plans it sponsors, NBCUniversal is also obligated to reimburse GE for future benefit payments to those participants who were vested in the supplemental pension plan sponsored by GE at the time of the NBCUniversal transaction in 2011.   
  In September 2015, we settled all of our obligations related to the termination in December 2013 of the NBCUniversal qualified pension plan. In
connection with this final settlement, we fully funded the plan with an   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  additional contribution of $20 million and recorded expenses of $27 million in other operating and administrative expenses.   
  Other      In August 2013, we settled
all of our obligations related to the termination in February 2012 of the qualified pension plan that provided benefits to former employees of a company we acquired as part of the AT T Broadband transaction in 2002. In connection with this final
settlement, we fully funded the plan with an additional contribution of $55 million and recorded expenses of $74 million in other operating and administrative expenses, which was previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
      Other Employee Benefits    
  Deferred Compensation Plans      We
maintain unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plans for certain members of management and nonemployee directors (each, a  participant ). The amount of compensation deferred by each participant is based on participant elections.
Participant accounts, except for those in the NBCUniversal plan, are credited with income primarily based on a fixed annual rate. Participants in the NBCUniversal plan designate one or more valuation funds, independently established funds or indices
that are used to determine the amount of investment gain or loss in the participant s account. Participants are eligible to receive distributions from their account based on elected deferral periods that are consistent with the plans and
applicable tax law.      The table below presents the benefit obligation and interest expense for our deferred compensation plans.
      
    We have purchased life insurance policies to recover a portion of the future payments related to our deferred
compensation plans. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the cash surrender value of these policies, which is recorded to other noncurrent assets, was $658 million and $628 million, respectively.   
  Retirement Investment Plans      We
sponsor several 401(k) defined contribution retirement plans that allow eligible employees to contribute a portion of their compensation through payroll deductions in accordance with specified plan guidelines. We make contributions to the plans that
include matching a percentage of the employees  contributions up to certain limits. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, expenses related to these plans totaled $416 million, $379 million and $324 million, respectively.   
  Split-Dollar Life Insurance Agreements      Pursuant to pre-existing contractual obligations, we have collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance agreements with select key current and former employees that require us to incur certain insurance-related
costs. Under some of these agreements, our obligation to provide benefits to the employees extends beyond retirement.      The table below
presents the benefit obligation and expenses related to our split-dollar life insurance agreements.       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Multiemployer Benefit Plans      We
participate in various multiemployer benefit plans, including pension and postretirement benefit plans, that cover some of our employees and temporary employees who are represented by labor unions. We also participate in other multiemployer benefit
plans that provide health and welfare and retirement savings benefits to active and retired participants. We make periodic contributions to these plans in accordance with the terms of applicable collective bargaining agreements and laws but do not
sponsor or administer these plans. We do not participate in any multiemployer benefit plans for which we consider our contributions to be individually significant, and the largest plans in which we participate are funded at a level of 80% or
greater.      In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the total contributions we made to multiemployer pension plans were $77 million, $58 million and $59
million, respectively. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the total contributions we made to multiemployer postretirement and other benefit plans were $119 million, $125 million and $98 million, respectively.   
  If we cease to be obligated to make contributions or were to otherwise withdraw from participation in any of these plans, applicable law would
require us to fund our allocable share of the unfunded vested benefits, which is known as a withdrawal liability. In addition, actions taken by other participating employers may lead to adverse changes in the financial condition of one of these
plans, which could result in an increase in our withdrawal liability.      Severance Benefits   
  We provide severance benefits to certain former employees. A liability is recorded when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and
the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded severance costs of $181 million, $152 million and $160 million, respectively.       Note 13: Equity            Class A Special Common Stock Reclassification       In December 2015, our shareholders approved
a proposal to amend and restate our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in order to reclassify each issued share of our Class A Special common stock into one share of our Class A common stock. This reclassification became
effective as of the close of business on December 11, 2015, at which time our Class A Special common stock was no longer outstanding and ceased trading on the NASDAQ under the symbol CMCSK and instead became listed on the NASDAQ under the
symbol CMCSA. There was no impact on basic and diluted EPS or the carrying value of total common stock as presented in our consolidated balance sheet because it was a one-for-one stock exchange.   
   Common Stock       In the
aggregate, holders of our Class A common stock have 66    2   /   3   % of the voting power of our common stock and holders of our Class B common stock have
33   1   /   3   % of the voting power of our common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock is entitled to 15 votes. The number of votes held
by each share of our Class A common stock depends on the number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding at any given time. The 33   1   /   3   % aggregate voting power of our Class B common stock cannot be diluted by additional issuances of any other class of common stock. Our Class B common stock is convertible, share for share, into Class A common
stock, subject to certain restrictions.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Shares of Common Stock Outstanding       
    Share Repurchases      Effective January 1, 2016, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase program authorization to a total of $10 billion, which does not have an expiration date. Under this authorization, we may
repurchase shares in the open market or in private transactions.      Share Repurchases   
   
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   
   
     Note 14: Share-Based Compensation    
      The tables below provide condensed
information on our share-based compensation.      Recognized Share-Based Compensation Expense   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  As of December 31, 2015, we had unrecognized pretax compensation expense of $635 million related to nonvested RSUs and unrecognized pretax
compensation expense of $337 million related to nonvested stock options that will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.8 years and 1.8 years, respectively. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded increases to additional
paid-in capital of $311 million, $299 million and $244 million, respectively, which were the result of tax benefits associated with our share-based compensation plans.      Stock Options and Restricted Share Units       
    As of December 31, 2015, substantially all of our stock options outstanding were net settled stock options.
Net settled stock options, as opposed to stock options exercised with a cash payment, result in fewer shares being issued and no cash proceeds being received by us when the options are exercised. Our share-based compensation primarily consists of
awards of RSUs and stock options to certain employees and directors as part of our approach to long-term incentive compensation. Awards generally vest over a period of 5 years and in the case of stock options, have a 10 year term. Additionally,
through our employee stock purchase plans, employees are able to purchase shares of Comcast common stock at a discount through payroll deductions.      The cost associated with our share-based compensation is based on an award s estimated fair value at the date of grant and is recognized over the period in which any related services are provided. RSUs are
valued based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant and are discounted for the lack of dividends, if any, during the vesting period. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock option
awards. The table below presents the weighted-average fair value on the date of grant of RSUs and stock options awarded under our various plans and the related weighted-average valuation assumptions.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 15: Income Taxes        
  Components of Income Tax Expense       
    Our income tax expense differs from the federal statutory amount because of the effect of the items detailed in the
table below.       
    We base our provision for income taxes on our current period income, changes in our deferred income tax assets and
liabilities, income tax rates, changes in estimates of our uncertain tax positions, and tax planning opportunities available in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities when there are temporary
differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities and for the expected benefits of using net operating loss carryforwards. When a change in the tax rate or tax law has an impact on deferred taxes, we apply
the change based on the years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We record the change in our consolidated financial statements in the period of enactment.   
  The determination of the income tax consequences of a business combination includes identifying the tax basis of assets and liabilities acquired
and any contingencies associated with uncertain tax positions assumed or resulting from the business combination. Deferred tax assets and liabilities related to temporary differences of an acquired entity are recorded as of the date of the business
combination and are based on our estimate of the ultimate tax basis that will be accepted by the various tax authorities. We record liabilities for contingencies associated with prior tax returns filed by the acquired entity based on criteria set
forth in the appropriate accounting guidance. We adjust the deferred tax accounts and the liabilities periodically to reflect any revised estimated tax basis and any estimated settlements with the various tax authorities. The effects of these
adjustments are recorded to income tax expense.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  From time to time, we engage in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. In these cases, we evaluate our tax
positions using the recognition threshold and the measurement attribute in accordance with the accounting guidance related to uncertain tax positions. Examples of these transactions include business acquisitions and dispositions, including
consideration paid or received in connection with these transactions, certain financing transactions, and the allocation of income among state and local tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax
consequences of these transactions. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained on examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the
position. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in our consolidated financial statements. We classify interest and penalties, if any, associated with
our uncertain tax positions as a component of income tax expense.       NBCUniversal    
  For U.S. federal income tax purposes, NBCUniversal Holdings is treated as a partnership and NBCUniversal is disregarded as an entity separate from
NBCUniversal Holdings. Accordingly, neither NBCUniversal Holdings nor NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries incur any material current or deferred domestic income taxes. Following the close of the NBCUniversal redemption transaction in March 2013, the
taxable income of NBCUniversal Holdings and NBCUniversal is allocable entirely to us.      We are indemnified by GE for any income tax
liability attributable to the NBCUniversal contributed businesses for periods prior to the close of the NBCUniversal transaction in January 2011 and also for any income tax liability attributable to NBCUniversal Enterprise for periods prior to the
date of the NBCUniversal redemption transaction. We have indemnified GE for any income tax liability attributable to the businesses we contributed to NBCUniversal for periods prior to the close of the NBCUniversal transaction.   
  Current and deferred foreign income taxes are incurred by NBCUniversal s foreign subsidiaries. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, NBCUniversal had
foreign income before taxes of $704 million, $385 million and $524 million, respectively, on which foreign income tax expense was recorded. We recorded U.S. income tax expense on our allocable share of NBCUniversal s income before domestic and
foreign taxes, which was reduced by a U.S. tax credit equal to our allocable share of NBCUniversal s foreign income tax expense.   
  Components of Net Deferred Tax Liability       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Changes in our net deferred tax liability in 2015 that were not recorded as deferred income tax expense are primarily related to decreases of $28
million associated with items included in other comprehensive income (loss) and decreases of $132 million related to acquisitions made in 2015. Our net deferred tax liability includes $23 billion related to cable franchise rights that will remain
unchanged unless we recognize an impairment or dispose of a cable franchise.      As of December 31, 2015, we had federal net operating
loss carryforwards of $135 million and various state net operating loss carryforwards that expire in periods through 2035. As of December 31, 2015, we also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $700 million that are related to the
foreign operations of NBCUniversal, the majority of which expire in periods through 2025. The determination of the realization of the state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards is dependent on our subsidiaries  taxable income or loss,
apportionment percentages, and state and foreign laws that can change from year to year and impact the amount of such carryforwards. We recognize a valuation allowance if we determine it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of a
deferred tax asset will not be realized. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, our valuation allowance was primarily related to state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards.       Uncertain Tax Positions       Our uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2015 totaled $1.1
billion, which exclude the federal benefits on state tax positions that were recorded as deferred income taxes. Included in our uncertain tax positions was $220 million related to tax positions of NBCUniversal and NBCUniversal Enterprise for which
we have been indemnified by GE. If we were to recognize the tax benefit for our uncertain tax positions in the future, $592 million would impact our effective tax rate and the remaining amount would increase our deferred income tax liability. The
amount and timing of the recognition of any such tax benefit is dependent on the completion of examinations of our tax filings by the various tax authorities and the expiration of statutes of limitations. In 2014, we reduced our accruals for
uncertain tax positions and the related accrued interest on these tax positions and, as a result, our income tax expense decreased by $759 million. It is reasonably possible that certain tax contests could be resolved within the next 12 months that
may result in a decrease in our effective tax rate.      Reconciliation of Unrecognized Tax Benefits   
   
    As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, our accrued interest associated with tax positions was $510 million and $452
million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, $49 million and $44 million, respectively, of these amounts were related to tax positions of NBCUniversal and NBCUniversal Enterprise for which we have been indemnified by GE.   
  During 2015, the IRS completed its examination of our income tax returns for the year 2013. Various states are examining our tax returns, with most
of the periods relating to tax years 2000 and forward. The tax years of our state tax returns currently under examination vary by state.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 16: Supplemental Financial Information    
      Receivables   
   
    In addition to the amounts in the table above, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, noncurrent receivables of
$721 million and $569 million, respectively, are included in other noncurrent assets, net that primarily relate to the licensing of our television and film productions to third parties.      Cash Payments for Interest and Income Taxes       
     Noncash Investing and Financing Activities       During 2015:       

we acquired $1.1 billion of property and equipment and intangible assets that were accrued but unpaid    

we assumed liabilities related to the Universal Studios Japan transaction (see Note 5 for additional information)    

we used $517 million of equity securities to settle a portion of our obligations under prepaid forward sale agreements    
          During 2014:   

we acquired $797 million of property and equipment and intangible assets that were accrued but unpaid    

we used $3.2 billion of equity securities to settle a portion of our obligations under prepaid forward sale agreements    
          During 2013:   

we acquired GE s 49% common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings that we did not already own for total consideration of $16.7 billion, which included
noncash consideration of $6 billion that was comprised of $4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued by NBCUniversal Enterprise, $1.25 billion of borrowings under NBCUniversal Enterprise s credit facility and $725 million
aggregate liquidation preference of NBCUniversal Enterprise Series A cumulative preferred stock (see Note 5 for additional information on the NBCUniversal redemption transaction)    

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          

we acquired $872 million of property and equipment and intangible assets that were accrued but unpaid    

we used $1.4 billion of equity securities to settle a portion of our obligations under prepaid forward sale agreements    

we closed a transaction with Liberty Media that included, among other things, the delivery of Liberty Media shares owned by us in exchange for Liberty
Media s interests in one of NBCUniversal s contractual obligations (see Note 7 for additional information)    
           Note 17: Commitments and Contingencies    
       Commitments    
  NBCUniversal enters into long-term commitments with third parties in the ordinary course of its business, including commitments to acquire film and
television programming, creative talent and employment agreements, and various other television-related commitments. Many of NBCUniversal s employees, including writers, directors, actors, technical and production personnel, and others, as well
as some of its on-air and creative talent, are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. As of December 31, 2015, the total number of NBCUniversal full-time, part-time and hourly employees on its payroll covered by
collective bargaining agreements was 7,500 full-time equivalent employees. Of this total, approximately 10% of these full-time equivalent employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired or are scheduled to expire during
2016.      We, through Comcast Spectacor, have employment agreements with both players and coaches of the Philadelphia Flyers. Certain of
these employment agreements, which provide for payments that are guaranteed regardless of employee injury or termination, are covered by disability insurance if certain conditions are met.   
  The table below summarizes our minimum annual programming and talent commitments and our minimum annual rental commitments for office space,
equipment and transponder service agreements under operating leases. Programming and talent commitments include acquired film and television programming, including U.S. television rights to the Olympic Games through 2032,  Sunday Night Football
 on NBC through the 2022-23 season, NASCAR on the NBC Sports Network through 2024 and other programming commitments, as well as various contracts with creative talent and employment agreements.   
   
    The table below presents our rental expense charged to operations.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Contingencies       Antitrust Cases   
  We are defendants in two purported class actions originally filed in December 2003 in the United States District Courts for the District of
Massachusetts and the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The potential class in the Massachusetts case, which has been transferred to the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, is our customer base in the  Boston Cluster  area, and the potential
class in the Pennsylvania case is our customer base in the  Philadelphia and Chicago Clusters,  as those terms are defined in the complaints. In each case, the plaintiffs allege that certain customer exchange transactions with other cable
providers resulted in unlawful horizontal market restraints in those areas and seek damages under antitrust statutes, including treble damages.      Classes of Chicago Cluster and Philadelphia Cluster customers were certified in October 2007 and January 2010, respectively. We appealed the class certification in the Philadelphia Cluster case to the Third Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the class certification in August 2011. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court granted our petition to review the Third Circuit Court of Appeals  ruling and in March 2013, the Supreme Court ruled that the class
had been improperly certified and reversed the judgment of the Third Circuit. In August 2013, the plaintiffs in the Philadelphia Cluster case moved to certify a new, smaller class, which we opposed in January 2014. In April 2014, the District Court
granted our unopposed motion to de-certify the Chicago Cluster class and the plaintiffs  unopposed motion to amend the Pennsylvania case so as to dismiss claims relating to the Chicago Cluster. In April 2014, lead counsel for the Boston Cluster
cases withdrew, and in June 2014, new counsel requested the Boston Cluster cases be transferred to the federal court in Boston or permission to leave to amend the complaints. The District Court denied the request and dismissed the Boston Cluster
cases. In December 2014, the District Court granted preliminary approval to a settlement of the Philadelphia Cluster case, and in September 2015, the District Court granted final approval of the settlement. The settlement of the Philadelphia Cluster
case did not have a material effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.      In addition, we are the defendant
in putative class actions filed in federal district courts throughout the country. Twenty-three actions were consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
for pre-trial proceedings. In a consolidated complaint filed in November 2009 on behalf of all plaintiffs in the multidistrict litigation, the plaintiffs allege that we improperly  tie  the rental of set-top boxes to the provision of
premium cable services in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, various state antitrust laws and unfair/deceptive trade practices acts. The West Virginia Attorney General also filed a complaint in West Virginia state court in
July 2009 alleging that we improperly  tie  the rental of set-top boxes to the provision of digital cable services in violation of the West Virginia Antitrust Act and the West Virginia Consumer Credit and Protection Act. The Attorney
General also alleges a claim for unjust enrichment/restitution. We removed the case to the United States District Court for West Virginia, and it was subsequently transferred to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania and consolidated with the multidistrict litigation. In July 2011, we moved to compel arbitration of most of the plaintiffs  claims and to stay the remaining claims pending arbitration. A comprehensive settlement agreement for all
23 cases that had been submitted to the District Court for preliminary approval in June 2013 was withdrawn in October 2014, and we refiled our motion to compel arbitration. The parties submitted a settlement for the claims of current and former
customers who received service in the states of California, Washington and West Virginia in September 2015. In November 2015, the District Court did not approve the settlement, and the plaintiffs then appealed the decision to the Third Circuit Court
of Appeals. We do not expect these cases to have a material effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Other      We are a defendant in several
unrelated lawsuits claiming infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our businesses. In certain of these cases other industry participants are also defendants, and also in certain of these cases we expect that any potential
liability would be in part or in whole the responsibility of our equipment and technology vendors under applicable contractual indemnification provisions. We are also subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of
our business. While the amount of ultimate liability with respect to such actions is not expected to materially affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position, any litigation resulting from any such legal proceedings or claims
could be time-consuming and injure our reputation.       Note 18: Financial Data by Business Segment    
      We present our operations in one reportable
business segment for Cable Communications and four reportable business segments for NBCUniversal. The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks segments comprise the NBCUniversal businesses and are collectively
referred to as the NBCUniversal segments. Our financial data by reportable business segment is presented in the tables below.       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          

Subscription revenue received from customers who purchase bundled services at a discounted rate is allocated proportionally to each service based on the
individual service s price on a stand-alone basis.          

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          

(b)  
     
    Beginning in 2014, Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business that was previously presented in our Cable Networks segment, is now presented in
the Filmed Entertainment segment to reflect the change in our management reporting presentation. Due to immateriality, prior period amounts have not been adjusted.      

(c)  
     
    The revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl were reported in our Broadcast Television segment. The
revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics were reported in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments.      

(d)  
     
    As disclosed in Note 11, we changed our method of accounting for a contractual obligation that involves an interest in the revenue of certain theme parks. As
a result of the change, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, amounts payable based on current period revenue are presented in operating costs and expenses. Amounts paid through the third quarter of 2015 were included in other income (expense),
net in our consolidated statement of income. For segment reporting purposes, we have adjusted periods prior to the fourth quarter of 2015 to reflect management reporting presentation for this expense on a consistent basis for all periods in the
Theme Parks segment, which resulted in an offsetting adjustment in NBCUniversal Eliminations. Therefore, we have reduced our Theme Parks segment operating income before depreciation and amortization and operating income by $63 million, $72 million
and $61 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, while corresponding amounts have been reflected in NBCUniversal Eliminations to reconcile to consolidated operating income.      

(e)  
     
    NBCUniversal Headquarters and Other activities include costs associated with overhead, allocations, personnel costs and headquarter initiatives.

(f)  
     
    Included in Eliminations are transactions that our segments enter into with one another. The most common types of transactions are the following:

our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments generate revenue by selling programming to our Cable Communications segment, which represents a
substantial majority of the revenue elimination amount    

our Cable Communications segment generates revenue by selling advertising and by selling the use of satellite feeds to our Cable Networks segment

our Filmed Entertainment and Broadcast Television segments generate revenue by licensing content to our Cable Networks segment    

our Cable Communications segment receives incentives offered by our Cable Networks segment in connection with its distribution of the Cable Networks 
content that are recorded as a reduction to programming expenses    

(g)  
     
    Revenue from customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia, in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $5.8 billion, $4.4 billion and $4.8
billion, respectively. No single customer accounted for a significant amount of revenue in any period.          

(h)  
     
    We use operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses
from the sale of assets, if any, as the measure of profit or loss for our operating segments. This measure eliminates the significant level of noncash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of certain of
our businesses and from intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, it is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. We use this measure to evaluate our consolidated operating performance and the operating
performance of our operating segments and to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments. It is also a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that this measure is useful to investors
because it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with that of other companies in our industries, although our measure may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies. This measure should not be
considered a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss) attributable to Comcast Corporation, net cash provided by operating activities, or other measures of performance or liquidity we have reported in accordance with GAAP.

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
   Note 19: Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)    

(a)  
     
    In the third quarter of 2014, net income attributable to Comcast Corporation included $759 million of favorable income tax adjustments resulting from a
reduction in our accruals for uncertain tax positions and the related accrued interest on these tax positions. See Note 15 for additional information.          Note 20: Condensed Consolidating Financial Information        
  Comcast ( Comcast Parent ), Comcast Cable Communications, LLC ( CCCL Parent ) and NBCUniversal ( NBCUniversal Media
Parent ) have fully and unconditionally guaranteed each other s debt securities. In addition, the Comcast revolving credit facility and the Comcast commercial paper program are also fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NBCUniversal. The
Comcast commercial paper program is supported by the Comcast revolving credit facility. The debt securities within the guarantee structure total $44.3 billion, of which $10.7 billion will mature within the next five years.   
  In October 2015, we merged three of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Comcast MO Group, LLC ( Comcast MO Group ), Comcast Cable Holdings,
LLC ( CCH ) and Comcast MO of Delaware, LLC ( Comcast MO of Delaware ), with and into CCCL Parent. Comcast MO Group, CCH and Comcast MO of Delaware were guarantors prior to the merger and were collectively referred to as the
 Combined CCHMO Parents.  Accordingly, the financial information for CCCL Parent reflects both the former Combined CCHMO Parents and the CCCL Parent for all periods presented.   
  Comcast Parent and CCCL Parent also fully and unconditionally guarantee NBCUniversal Enterprise s $4 billion of senior notes, as well as the
NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility and the associated commercial paper program. NBCUniversal Media Parent does not guarantee the NBCUniversal Enterprise senior notes, credit facility or commercial paper program.   
  Comcast Parent provides an unconditional subordinated guarantee of the $185 million principal amount currently outstanding of Comcast
Holdings  ZONES due October 2029. Neither CCCL Parent nor NBCUniversal Media Parent guarantee the Comcast Holdings  ZONES due October 2029. None of Comcast Parent, CCCL Parent nor NBCUniversal Media Parent guarantee the $62 million
principal amount currently outstanding of Comcast Holdings  ZONES due November 2029 or the $3.3 billion of Universal Studios Japan term loans.   

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows       

Table of Contents  

    Comcast Corporation          
  Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows       

Table of Contents  

     Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure      None.        Item 9A: Controls and Procedures       Comcast
Corporation            Conclusions regarding
disclosure controls and procedures       Our principal executive and principal financial officers, after evaluating the effectiveness of
Comcast s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report, have concluded that, based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required
by paragraph (b) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15, Comcast s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.       Management s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting       Refer to Management s Report on Comcast s Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting on page 74.       Attestation report of the registered public accounting firm       Refer to Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on page 75.       Changes in internal control over
financial reporting       As a result of NBCUniversal s acquisition of Universal Studios Japan on November 13, 2015, our
internal control over financial reporting, subsequent to the date of acquisition, includes certain additional internal controls relating to Universal Studios Japan. Except as described above, there were no changes in Comcast s internal control
over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, Comcast s internal control over financial reporting.       NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
       Conclusions regarding disclosure controls and procedures
      Our principal executive and principal financial officers, after evaluating the effectiveness of NBCUniversal s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)), as of the end of the period covered by this report, have concluded that, based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by paragraph (b) of
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15, NBCUniversal s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.       Management s annual report on
internal control over financial reporting       Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of
internal control over financial reporting. Our system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.   

Table of Contents  

   Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:   

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of our assets

provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and our directors    

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements    
          Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial
reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Further, because of changes in conditions, effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting may vary over time. Our system contains
self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified.      Our management conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the system of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued in 2013 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded that NBCUniversal s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. Our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 did not include the internal controls of the Universal Studios Japan theme park, in which NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest on November 13, 2015, as permitted by Securities and Exchange
Commission guidelines that allow companies to exclude certain acquisitions from their assessment of internal control over financial reporting during the first year of an acquisition. The total assets and total revenues of Universal Studios Japan
represented approximately 11% of NBCUniversal s total assets as of December 31, 2015, and less than 1% of its total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015.       Changes in internal control over financial reporting       As a result of NBCUniversal s
acquisition of Universal Studios Japan on November 13, 2015, NBCUniversal s internal control over financial reporting, subsequent to the date of acquisition, includes certain additional internal controls relating to Universal Studios
Japan. Except as described above, there were no changes in NBCUniversal s internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred
during our last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, NBCUniversal s internal control over financial reporting.        Item 9B: Other Information      None.   

Table of Contents  

   Part III         
    Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
   Comcast        
  Except for the information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K, we incorporate the information required by this
item by reference to our definitive proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders presently scheduled to be held in May 2016. We refer to this proxy statement as the 2016 Proxy Statement.   
  The term of office of each of our executive officers continues until his successor is selected and qualified or until his earlier death,
resignation or removal. The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers, including their ages, positions and tenure, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

Name  
      
  Age  
      
  Officer Since  
      
  Position with Comcast   

Brian L. Roberts   
      
  56  
      
  1986  
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; President   
 
    Michael J. Cavanagh   
      
  50  
      
  2015  
      
  Senior Executive Vice President; Chief Financial Officer   
 
    Stephen B. Burke   
      
  57  
      
  1998  
      
  Senior Executive Vice President; President and Chief Executive Officer, NBCUniversal Holdings and NBCUniversal   
 
    David L. Cohen   
      
  60  
      
  2002  
      
  Senior Executive Vice President   
 
    Neil Smit   
      
  57  
      
  2011  
      
  Senior Executive Vice President; President and Chief Executive Officer, Comcast Cable   
 
    Arthur R. Block   
      
  61  
      
  1993  
      
  Executive Vice President; General Counsel; Secretary   
 
    Lawrence J. Salva   
      
  59  
      
  2000  
      
  Executive Vice President; Chief Accounting Officer   
     Brian L. Roberts  has served as a director and as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board for more than five years. As of December 31, 2015, Mr. Roberts had sole voting power over approximately 33 1/3% of the combined voting power of our two classes of common stock. He is a son of our late founder, Mr. Ralph J.
Roberts. Mr. Roberts is also a director of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association.       Michael J. Cavanagh  has
served as the Chief Financial Officer of Comcast Corporation since July 2015. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Cavanagh had been Co-President and Co-Chief Operating Officer for The Carlyle Group, a global investment firm, since 2014. Prior to
that, Mr. Cavanagh was the Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Corporate   Investment Bank of JPMorgan Chase   Co. from 2012 until 2014; the Chief Executive Officer of JPMorgan Chase   Co s Treasury  
Securities Services business from 2010 to 2012; and the Chief Financial Officer of JPMorgan Chase   Co from 2004 to 2010. Mr. Cavanagh is also a director of Yum Brands, Incorporated.   
   Stephen B. Burke  has served as a Senior Executive Vice President since March 2015 and previously had served as an Executive Vice President
for more than five years. On January 28, 2011, Mr. Burke became the President and Chief Executive Officer of NBCUniversal Holdings and NBCUniversal and resigned from his position as our Chief Operating Officer, which position he had held
for more than five years. Mr. Burke also had been the President of Comcast Cable until March 2010. Mr. Burke is also a director of JPMorgan Chase   Company and Berkshire Hathaway, Incorporated.   
   David L. Cohen  has served as a Senior Executive Vice President since March 2015 and previously had served as an Executive Vice President for
more than five years. Mr. Cohen is also a director of the FS Global Credit Opportunities Funds, the FS Global Credit Opportunities Fund A and the FS Global Credit Opportunities Fund D.   

Table of Contents  

    Neil Smit  has served as a Senior Executive Vice President since March 2015 and previously had
served as an Executive Vice President for more than five years. Mr. Smit has been the President of Comcast Cable since March 2010. Mr. Smit was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Comcast Cable in November 2011. Before March 2010,
Mr. Smit had been the President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Charter Communications, Inc., a cable company, since August 2005. Charter Communications filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in March 2009 and emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in November 2009. Mr. Smit is also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association and Chairman of CableLabs.   
   Arthur R. Block  has served as an Executive Vice President since March 2015 and previously had served as a Senior Vice President for more
than five years. He has been our General Counsel and Secretary for more than five years.       Lawrence J. Salva  has served as an
Executive Vice President since March 2015 and previously had served as a Senior Vice President for more than five years. He has been our Chief Accounting Officer for more than five years and prior to July 2015, was also our Controller.   
   NBCUniversal        
  Certain information under this Item 10 has been omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) to Form 10-K.   
  The table below sets forth certain information with respect to each of NBCUniversal s executive officers as of December 31, 2015, each of
whom has served as such since the close of the NBCUniversal transaction on January 28, 2011 except for Michael J. Cavanagh, who has served since July 2015. The table also sets forth NBCUniversal Holdings  directors as of December 31,
2015.       

Name  
     
  Title   

Brian L. Roberts   
     
  Principal Executive Officer   
 
    Michael J. Cavanagh   
     
  Principal Financial Officer; Director of NBCUniversal Holdings   
 
    Stephen B. Burke   
     
  Chief Executive Officer and President   
 
    David L. Cohen   
     
  Senior Executive Vice President; Director of NBCUniversal Holdings   
 
    Arthur R. Block   
     
  Executive Vice President; Director of NBCUniversal Holdings   
 
    Lawrence J. Salva   
     
  Executive Vice President   
    For the year ended December 31, 2015, NBCUniversal reimbursed Comcast $35 million for direct services provided
by our executive officers.        Item 11: Executive Compensation   
  Comcast incorporates the information required by this item by reference to its 2016 Proxy Statement.   
  This information is omitted for NBCUniversal pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) to Form 10-K.   
    Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
  Comcast incorporates the information required by this item by reference to its 2016 Proxy Statement.   
  This information is omitted for NBCUniversal pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) to Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents  

     Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence      Comcast incorporates the information required by this item by reference to its 2016 Proxy Statement.   
  This information is omitted for NBCUniversal pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) to Form 10-K.   
    Item 14: Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
  Comcast incorporates the information required by this item by reference to its 2016 Proxy Statement.   
   NBCUniversal        
  The Audit Committee of Comcast s Board of Directors appointed Deloitte   Touche LLP as NBCUniversal s independent registered
public accounting firm for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Set forth below are the fees paid or accrued for the services of Deloitte   Touche LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and their respective affiliates
in 2015 and 2014.       
    Audit fees consisted of fees paid or accrued for services rendered to NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries for the
audits of its annual financial statements, reviews of its quarterly financial statements and audit services provided in connection with other statutory or regulatory filings.      Audit-related fees in 2015 and 2014 consisted primarily of fees paid or accrued for audits associated with employee benefit plans and attestation services related to contractual and regulatory compliance.
     Tax fees in 2015 and 2014 consisted of fees paid or accrued for domestic and foreign tax compliance services.   
  All other fees in 2015 primarily consisted of fees paid or accrued for consulting services regarding content security.   
   Preapproval Policy of Audit Committee of Services Performed by Independent Auditors       As a consolidated subsidiary of Comcast, NBCUniversal is subject to the policies of Comcast s Audit Committee regarding the preapproval of services provided by the independent auditors. This policy requires
that the Audit Committee preapprove all audit and non-audit services performed by the independent auditors to assure that the services do not impair the auditors  independence. Unless a type of service has received general preapproval, it
requires separate preapproval by the Audit Committee. Even if a service has received general preapproval, if the fee associated with the service exceeds $250,000 in a single engagement or series of related engagements or relates to tax planning, it
requires separate preapproval. The Audit Committee has delegated its preapproval authority to its Chair.   

Table of Contents  

   Part IV         
    Item 15: Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules       Comcast           (a) Comcast s consolidated financial statements are filed as a part of this report on Form 10-K in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and a list of Comcast s consolidated financial
statements are found on page 73 of this report. Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, is found on page 175 of this report; all other financial statement schedules are omitted because the required information is not applicable, or because
the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.      (b) Exhibits required to be filed by
Item 601 of Regulation S-K (all of which are under Commission File No. 001-32871, except as otherwise noted):       

2.1  
      
    Transaction Agreement, dated February 12, 2013, by and among Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company, NBCUniversal, LLC, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, National
Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc. and Navy Holdings, Inc. (n/k/a/ NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2013).    

2.2  
      
    Amendment to Transaction Agreement, dated March 19, 2013, by and among Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company, NBCUniversal, LLC, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, National
Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc. and Navy Holdings, Inc. (n/k/a/ NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2013).    

2.3  
      
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 12, 2014 among Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc. and Tango Acquisition Sub, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2.1 to Comcast s Current Report filed on February 13, 2014).    

2.4  
      
    Voting Agreement dated as of February 12, 2014 among Time Warner Cable Inc., Brian L. Roberts, BRCC Holdings LLC, Irrevocable Deed of Trust of Brian L. Roberts for
Children and Other Issue dated June 10, 1998 and Irrevocable Deed of Trust of Ralph J. Roberts for Brian L. Roberts and Other Beneficiaries dated May 11, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to Comcast s Current Report filed on
February 13, 2014).    

2.5  
      
    Comcast/Charter Transactions Agreement dated as of April 25, 2014 between Comcast Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
Comcast s Current Report filed on April 28, 2014).    

2.6  
      
    Voting Agreement dated as of April 25, 2014 between Comcast Corporation and Liberty Media Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to Comcast s Current
Report filed on April 28, 2014).    

3.1  
      
    Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Comcast Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Comcast s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
December 15, 2015).    

3.2  
      
    Amended and Restated By-Laws of Comcast Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2015).    

4.1  
      
    Specimen Class A Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Comcast s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002).    

4.2  
      
    Specimen Class A Special Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Comcast s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002).    

4.3  
      
    Indenture, dated January 7, 2003, between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantor party thereto, and The Bank of New York Mellon (f/k/a The Bank of New York), as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Comcast s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).     

Table of Contents  

4.4  
      
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated March 25, 2003, to the Indenture between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of New York Mellon
(f/k/a The Bank of New York), as trustee, dated January 7, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Comcast s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).    

4.5  
      
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated August 31, 2009, to the Indenture between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of New York
Mellon, as Trustee, dated January 7, 2003, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 25, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Comcast s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 2,
2009).    

4.6  
      
    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated March 27, 2013, to the Indenture between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of New York Mellon
(f/k/a The Bank of New York), as trustee, dated January 7, 2003, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 25, 2003 and a second Supplemental Indenture dated August 31, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to
Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

4.7  
      
    Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated October 1, 2015, to the Indenture dated January 7, 2003 between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The
Bank of New York Mellon (f/k/a The Bank of New York), as trustee, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 25, 2003, a second Supplemental Indenture dated August 31, 2009 and a third Supplemental Indenture dated March 27, 2013
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015).    

4.8  
      
    Senior Indenture dated September 18, 2013, among Comcast Corporation, the guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to Comcast s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed September 18, 2013).    

4.9  
      
    First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 17, 2015, to the Senior Indenture dated September 18, 2013, among Comcast Corporation, the guarantors party thereto, and
The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Post Effective Amendment No. 2 to Comcast s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed November 23, 2015).    

4.10  
      
    Indenture, dated as of April 30, 2010, between NBC Universal, Inc. (n/k/a NBCUniversal Media, LLC) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of NBCUniversal Media, LLC (Commission File No. 333-174175) filed on May 13, 2011).    

4.11  
      
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated March 27, 2013, to the Indenture between NBCUniversal Media, LLC (f/k/a NBC Universal, Inc.) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
trustee, dated April 30, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

4.12  
      
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated October 1, 2015, to the Indenture dated April 30, 2010 between NBC Universal, Inc. (n/k/a NBCUniversal Media, LLC) and The Bank of New
York Mellon, as trustee, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 27, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015).    

4.13  
      
    Indenture, dated March 19, 2013, among NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. (f/k/a Navy Holdings, Inc.), Comcast Corporation, the Cable Guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of
New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Comcast s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term obligation of the registrant and certain of its subsidiaries (the total amount of securities authorized
under each of which does not exceed ten percent of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis), are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. We agree to furnish copies of any such instruments
to the SEC upon request.     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

32.1  
      
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

101  
      
    The following financial statements from Comcast Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 5, 2016, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (1) the Consolidated Balance Sheet; (2) the Consolidated Statement of Income; (3) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income; (4) the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows; (5) the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity; and (6) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

*  
     
    Constitutes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.      

Confidential treatment granted.      

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal    
      (a) NBCUniversal s consolidated
financial statements are filed as a part of this report on Form 10-K and a list of the consolidated financial statements are found on page 143 of this report. Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts is found on page 175 of this report;
all other financial statement schedules are omitted because the required information is not applicable, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.   
  (b) Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:   

2.1  
      
    Transaction Agreement, dated February 12, 2013, by and among Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company, NBCUniversal, LLC, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, National
Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc. and Navy Holdings, Inc. (n/k/a/ NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended March 31,
2013).    

2.2  
      
    Amendment to Transaction Agreement, dated March 19, 2013, by and among Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company, NBCUniversal, LLC, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, National
Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc. and Navy Holdings, Inc. (n/k/a/ NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended March 31,
2013).    

2.3  
      
    Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of February 12, 2013, between 30RC Trust and NBCUniversal Atlas LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to NBCUniversal s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

3.1  
      
    Certificate of Formation of NBCUniversal Media, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to NBCUniversal s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on May
13, 2011).    

3.2  
      
    Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Formation of NBCUniversal Media, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to NBCUniversal s Registration Statement on
Form S-4 filed on May 13, 2011).    

3.3  
      
    Limited Liability Company Agreement of NBCUniversal Media, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Amendment No. 2 to NBCUniversal s Registration Statement
on Form S-4 filed on July 12, 2011).    

4.1  
      
    Indenture, dated as of April 30, 2010 between NBC Universal, Inc. (n/k/a NBCUniversal Media, LLC) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to NBCUniversal s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on May 13, 2011).    

4.2  
      
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated March 27, 2013, to the Indenture between NBCUniversal Media, LLC (f/k/a NBC Universal, Inc.) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
trustee, dated April 30, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

4.3  
      
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated October 1, 2015, to the Indenture dated April 30, 2010 between NBC Universal, Inc. (n/k/a NBCUniversal Media, LLC) and The Bank of New
York Mellon, as trustee, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 27, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended September 30,
2015).    

4.4  
      
    Indenture, dated January 7, 2003, between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantor party thereto, and The Bank of New York Mellon (f/k/a The Bank of New York), as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008).     

Table of Contents  

4.5  
      
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated March 25, 2003, to the Indenture between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of New York Mellon
(f/k/a The Bank of New York), as trustee, dated January 7, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008).    

4.6  
      
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated August 31, 2009, to the Indenture between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of New York
Mellon, as Trustee, dated January 7, 2003, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 25, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Comcast Corporation filed on September 2,
2009).    

4.7  
      
    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated March 27, 2013, to the Indenture between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and The Bank of New York Mellon
(f/k/a The Bank of New York), as trustee, dated January 7, 2003, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 25, 2003 and a Second Supplemental Indenture dated August 31, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

4.8  
      
    Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated October 1, 2015, to the Indenture dated January 7, 2003 between Comcast Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and
The Bank of New York Mellon (f/k/a The Bank of New York), as trustee, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 25, 2003, a second Supplemental Indenture dated August 31, 2009 and a third Supplemental Indenture dated March 27,
2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended September 30, 2015).    

4.9  
      
    Senior Indenture dated September 18, 2013, among Comcast Corporation, the guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to Comcast s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed September 18, 2013).    

4.10  
      
    First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 17, 2015, to the Senior Indenture dated September 18, 2013, among Comcast Corporation, the guarantors party thereto, and
The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Post Effective Amendment No. 2 to Comcast s Registration Statement on  Form S-3  filed November 23,
2015).    

10.1  
      
    Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of NBCUniversal, LLC, dated March 19, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended March 31, 2013).    

10.2  
      
    Credit Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2012, among Comcast Corporation, Comcast Cable Communications, LLC, the Financial Institutions party thereto and JP Morgan Chase
Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lender (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Corporation for the quarter ended June 30, 2012).    

10.3  
      
    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 19, 2013, among NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. (f/k/a Navy Holdings, Inc.), as Borrower, the Financial Institutions
party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the other agents party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report of Comcast Corporation on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2013).    

10.4  
      
    Receivables Repurchase Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2013, among NBCUniversal Media, LLC, NBCUniversal Receivables Funding LLC, Gotham Funding Corporation, Victory
Receivables Corporation, Working Capital Management Co., L.P., PNC Bank, National Association, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to NBCUniversal s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on December 19, 2013).     

Table of Contents  

10.5   
      
    Consultant Agreement, dated as of January 20, 1987, between Steven Spielberg and Universal City Florida Partners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.49 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-4 of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and UCDP Finance, Inc. filed on January 20, 2010 (File No. 333-164431)).    

10.6  
      
    Amendment dated February 5, 2001 to the Consultant Agreement dated as of January 20, 1987, between the Consultant and Universal City Florida Partners (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and UCDP Finance, Inc. filed on January 20, 2010 (File No. 333-164431)).    

10.7   
      
    Amendment to the Consultant Agreement, dated as of October 18, 2009, between Steven Spielberg, Diamond Lane Productions, Inc. and Universal City Development Partners, Ltd.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.52 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and UCDP Finance, Inc. filed on January 20, 2010 (File No. 333-164431)).    

10.8   
      
    Letter Agreement dated July 15, 2003, among Diamond Lane Productions, Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP and Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and UCDP Finance, Inc. filed on January 20, 2010 (File No. 333-164431)).    

23.2  
      
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.    

31.2  
      
    Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

32.2  
      
    Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

101  
      
    The following financial statements from NBCUniversal Media, LLC s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 5, 2016, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (1) the Consolidated Balance Sheet; (2) the Consolidated Statement of Income; (3) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income; (4) the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows; (5) the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity; and (6) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Confidential treatment granted.      

Table of Contents  

     Signatures   
         Comcast    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on February 5, 2016.        

By:   
     
    / S / B RIAN  L. R OBERTS     

Brian L. Roberts   

Chairman and CEO    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature  
     
  Title  
     
  Date   

/ S / B RIAN  L. R OBERTS   
  Brian L. Roberts   
     
    Chairman and CEO; Director     (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / M ICHAEL  J. C AVANAGH   
  Michael J. Cavanagh   
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and CFO (Principal Financial Officer)  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / L AWRENCE  J. S ALVA   
  Lawrence J. Salva   
     
    Executive Vice President and     Chief Accounting Officer     (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / K ENNETH  J. B ACON   
  Kenneth J. Bacon   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / S HELDON  M. B ONOVITZ   
  Sheldon M. Bonovitz   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / E DWARD  D. B REEN   
  Edward D. Breen   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / J OSEPH  J. C OLLINS   
  Joseph J. Collins   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / J. M ICHAEL  C OOK   
  J. Michael Cook   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / G ERALD  L. H ASSELL   
  Gerald L. Hassell   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / J EFFREY  A. H ONICKMAN   
  Jeffrey A. Honickman   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / E DUARDO  G. M ESTRE   
  Eduardo G. Mestre   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / J OHNATHAN  A. R ODGERS   
  Johnathan A. Rodgers   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / D R . J UDITH  R ODIN   
  Dr. Judith Rodin   
     
  Director  
     
  February 5, 2016   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on February 5, 2016.        

NBCUNIVERSAL MEDIA, LLC    

By: NBCUNIVERSAL, LLC, its sole member    

By:   
     
    / S / S TEPHEN  B. B URKE     

Name: Stephen B. Burke     Title: Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature  
     
  Title  
     
  Date   

/ S / B RIAN  L . R OBERTS   
  Brian L. Roberts   
     
    Principal Executive Officer     of NBCUniversal Media, LLC   
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / M ICHAEL  J. C AVANAGH   
  Michael J. Cavanagh   
     
    Principal Financial Officer     of NBCUniversal Media, LLC;     Director of NBCUniversal, LLC   
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / A RTHUR  R. B LOCK   
  Arthur R. Block   
     
  Director of NBCUniversal, LLC  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / D AVID  L. C OHEN   
  David L. Cohen   
     
  Director of NBCUniversal, LLC  
     
  February 5, 2016   

/ S / L AWRENCE  J. S ALVA   
  Lawrence J. Salva   
     
    Principal Accounting Officer     of NBCUniversal Media, LLC   
     
  February 5, 2016   

Table of Contents  

     N  BCUniversal Media, LLC Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data       

Index  
      
  Page   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  144   

Consolidated Balance Sheet    
      
  145   

Consolidated Statement of Income    
      
  146   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income    
      
  147   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
      
  148   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    
      
  149   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  150   

Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
         To the Member of NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
   New York, New York       We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NBCUniversal Media, LLC and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in
equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of
their internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purposes of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
NBCUniversal Media, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.       /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP    
  New York, New York      February 5,
2016   

Table of Contents  

      NBCUniversal Media, LLC       Consolidated Balance Sheet         
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      NBCUniversal Media, LLC       Consolidated Statement of Income         
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      NBCUniversal Media, LLC       Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income         
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      NBCUniversal Media, LLC       Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows             
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      NBCUniversal Media, LLC       Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity             
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

      NBCUniversal Media, LLC       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             
   Note 1: Business and Basis of Presentation    
      Unless indicated otherwise, throughout
these notes to the consolidated financial statements, we refer to NBCUniversal and its consolidated subsidiaries as  we,   us  and  our.  We are one of the world s leading media and entertainment companies that
develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news and information, sports, and other content for global audiences.      We present our
operations as the following four reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks. See Note 17 for additional information on our reportable business segments.   
  Our Cable Networks segment consists primarily of a diversified portfolio of cable television networks. Our cable networks are comprised of our
national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our cable television studio production operations.   
  Our Broadcast Television segment consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast
television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, and our broadcast television studio production operations.      Our Filmed
Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide. Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination and Focus Features names.   
  Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. In November 2015, we
acquired a 51% interest in the Universal Studios theme park in Osaka, Japan ( Universal Studios Japan ). Our Theme Parks segment also receives fees from our agreements with third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Singapore
theme park, as well as from the Universal Studios Japan theme park, to license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property.       Basis of Presentation       The accompanying consolidated financial statements include all entities
in which we have a controlling voting interest and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) required to be consolidated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ). Transactions between
NBCUniversal and both Comcast and Comcast s consolidated subsidiaries are reflected in these consolidated financial statements and disclosed as related party transactions when material.   
  We translate assets and liabilities of our foreign operations where the functional currency is the local currency, primarily the euro, British
pound, and Japanese yen, into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date and translate revenue and expenses using average monthly exchange rates. The related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss). Any foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in our consolidated statement of income.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 2: Accounting Policies    
      Our consolidated financial statements are
prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to select accounting policies, including in certain cases industry-specific policies, and make estimates that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the
related disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the judgments and related estimates for the following items are critical in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements:       

revenue recognition (see below)    

film and television costs (see Note 6)    

goodwill and intangible assets (see Note 9)    
          In addition, the following accounting policies are specific to the industries in
which we operate:       

capitalization and amortization of film and television costs (see Note 6)    
          Information on our other accounting policies and methods that are used in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements are included, where applicable, in their respective footnotes that follow. Below is a discussion of accounting policies and methods used in our consolidated financial statements that are not
presented within other footnotes.       Revenue Recognition       Cable Networks and Broadcast Television Segments      Our Cable Networks segment generates
revenue primarily from the distribution of our cable network programming to multichannel video providers, from the sale of advertising on our cable networks and related digital media properties, from the licensing of our owned programming through
various distribution platforms, from the sale of our owned programming through digital distribution services such as iTunes, and from the programming our cable production studio sells to third-party networks and subscription video on demand
services. Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising on our broadcast networks, owned local broadcast television stations and related digital media properties, from the licensing of our owned
programming through various distribution platforms, including to cable and broadcast networks, from the fees received under retransmission consent agreements and from the programming our broadcast television production studio sells to third-party
networks and subscription video on demand services. We recognize revenue from distributors as programming is provided, generally under multiyear distribution agreements. From time to time, the distribution agreements expire while programming
continues to be provided to the distributor based on interim arrangements while the parties negotiate new contract terms. Revenue recognition is generally limited to current payments being made by the distributor, typically under the prior contract
terms, until a new contract is negotiated, sometimes with effective dates that affect prior periods. Differences between actual amounts determined upon resolution of negotiations and amounts recorded during these interim arrangements are recorded in
the period of resolution.      Advertising revenue for our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments is recognized in the period in
which commercials are aired or viewed. In some instances, we guarantee audience ratings for the commercials. To the extent there is a shortfall in the ratings that were guaranteed, a portion of the revenue is deferred until the shortfall is settled,
primarily by providing additional advertising units. We recognize revenue from the licensing of our owned programming and programming produced by our studios for third parties when the content is available for use by the licensee, and when certain
other conditions are met. When license fees include advertising time, we recognize the component of revenue associated with the advertisements when they are aired or viewed.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        Filmed Entertainment Segment   
  Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide distribution of our produced and acquired films for exhibition in
movie theaters, from the licensing of our owned and acquired films through various distribution platforms, and from the sale of our owned and acquired films on standard-definition video discs and Blu-ray discs (together,  DVDs ) and
through digital distribution services. Our Filmed Entertainment segment also generates revenue from producing and licensing live stage plays, from the distribution of filmed entertainment produced by third parties, and from Fandango, our movie
ticketing and entertainment business. We recognize revenue from the distribution of films to movie theaters when the films are exhibited. We recognize revenue from the licensing of a film when the film is available for use by the licensee, and when
certain other conditions are met. We recognize revenue from DVD sales, net of estimated returns and customer incentives, on the date that DVDs are delivered to and made available for sale by retailers.   
  Theme Parks Segment      Our Theme
Parks segment generates revenue primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and, as of November 2015, Osaka, Japan, as well as from licensing and other fees. We recognize
revenue from advance theme park ticket sales when the tickets are used. For annual passes, we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis over the period following the activation date.       Advertising Expenses       Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.   
   Cash Equivalents       The carrying amounts of
our cash equivalents approximate their fair values. Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and U.S. government obligations, as well as commercial paper and certificates of deposit with maturities of three months or less when
purchased.       Derivative Financial Instruments       We use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to the risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Our objective is to manage the financial and operational
exposure arising from these risks by offsetting gains and losses on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivatives used to economically hedge them.      Our derivative financial instruments are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The impact of our derivative financial instruments on our consolidated financial statements was not material for
all periods presented.       Note 3: Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
       Revenue Recognition    
  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) updated the accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The updated
accounting guidance provides a single, contract-based revenue recognition model to help improve financial reporting by providing clearer guidance on when an entity should recognize revenue, and by reducing the number of standards to which an entity
has to refer. In July 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date by one year to December 15, 2017 for annual reporting periods beginning after that date. The updated accounting guidance provides companies with alternative methods of
adoption. We are currently in the process of determining the impact that the updated accounting guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements and our method of adoption.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Consolidations    
  In February 2015, the FASB updated the accounting guidance related to consolidation under the variable interest entity and voting interest entity
models. The updated accounting guidance modifies the consolidation guidance for VIEs, limited partnerships and similar legal entities. The updated guidance is effective for us as of January 1, 2016. The updated accounting guidance provides
companies with alternative methods of adoption. We do not expect the updated accounting guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.       Debt Issuance Costs       In April 2015, the FASB updated the accounting guidance related to the
balance sheet presentation of debt issuance costs. The updated accounting guidance requires that debt issuance costs be presented as a direct deduction from the associated debt obligation. We have adopted this guidance as of December 31, 2015
and as a result we have reclassified unamortized debt issuance costs of $12 million as of December 31, 2014 from other noncurrent assets to a reduction of long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2015,
unamortized debt issuance costs included in long-term debt was $11 million.       Deferred Income Taxes    
  In November 2015, the FASB updated the accounting guidance related to the balance sheet presentation of deferred taxes. The updated accounting
guidance requires that all deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The current requirement that deferred tax liabilities and assets of a tax-paying component of an entity be offset and presented
as a single amount is not affected by the amendments in this update. We have adopted this guidance prospectively as of December 31, 2015. Therefore, prior periods have not been adjusted to reflect this adoption. The adoption of the updated
accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet.       Note 4: Significant Transactions
           2015    
  Universal Studios Japan      On
November 13, 2015, we acquired a 51% economic interest in Universal Studios Japan for $1.5 billion. The acquisition was funded through cash on hand and borrowings under our commercial paper program.   
  Universal Studios Japan is a VIE based on the governance structure and we consolidate Universal Studios Japan as we have the power to direct
activities that most significantly impact its economic performance. There are no liquidity arrangements, guarantees, or other financial commitments between us and Universal Studios Japan, and therefore our maximum risk of financial loss is our 51%
interest. Universal Studios Japan s results of operations are reported in our Theme Parks segment following the acquisition date.   
   Preliminary Allocation of Purchase Price       Due to the limited amount of time since the date of acquisition, the assets and liabilities of Universal Studios Japan were recorded at their historical carrying values. We will adjust these amounts to fair value
as valuations are completed and we obtain information necessary to complete the analyses, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. The 49% noncontrolling interest in Universal Studios Japan is recorded in the equity section of our
consolidated financial statements and has been recorded based on the total value of Universal Studios Japan implied in the transaction. For purposes of this preliminary allocation, the excess of the total value implied in the transaction over the
historical carrying value has been recorded as goodwill.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        The table below presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase
price to the assets and liabilities of Universal Studios Japan.      Preliminary Allocation of Purchase Price   
   
     Actual and Unaudited Pro Forma Results    
  Our consolidated revenue and net income attributable to NBCUniversal for the year ended December 31, 2015 included $169 million and $18
million, respectively, from the acquisition of Universal Studios Japan.      The following unaudited pro forma information has been
presented as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2014. This information is based on historical results of operations and is subject to change as valuations are completed and additional analysis is obtained. In addition, the unaudited pro
forma accounting adjustments are not necessarily indicative of what our results would have been had we operated Universal Studios Japan since January 1, 2014. No pro forma adjustments have been made for our transaction-related expenses.
      
     2013    
  Redemption Transaction      On
March 19, 2013, Comcast acquired General Electric Company s ( GE ) 49% common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings that it did not already own for approximately $16.7 billion (the  redemption transaction ). In
addition to the redemption transaction, we purchased from GE certain properties we occupy at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City and CNBC s headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey for $1.4 billion.   
  The total consideration for these transactions consisted of $11.4 billion of cash on hand (of which we funded $4.6 billion); $4 billion of senior
debt securities issued by NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. ( NBCUniversal Enterprise ), a holding company whose principal assets are its interests in NBCUniversal Holdings; $750 million of cash funded through Comcast s commercial paper
program; $1.25 billion of borrowings under NBCUniversal Enterprise s credit facility, which replaced our credit facility; and $725 million aggregate liquidation preference of Series A cumulative preferred stock of NBCUniversal Enterprise.

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        Following the close of the redemption transaction, Comcast owns 96% of
NBCUniversal Holdings  common units and NBCUniversal Enterprise owns the remaining 4%. NBCUniversal Enterprise is now a consolidated subsidiary of Comcast, but we do not have any ownership interests in NBCUniversal Enterprise. NBCUniversal
Enterprise also owns all of NBCUniversal Holdings  preferred units with a $9.4 billion aggregate liquidation preference. NBCUniversal Holdings is required to make quarterly payments to NBCUniversal Enterprise at an initial rate of
8.25% per annum on the $9.4 billion aggregate liquidation preference of the preferred units. On March 1, 2018, and thereafter on every fifth anniversary of such date, this rate will reset to 7.44% plus the yield on actively traded United
States Treasury securities having a 5 year maturity. NBCUniversal Holdings has the right to redeem all of the preferred units during the 30 day period beginning on March 1, 2018, and NBCUniversal Enterprise has the right to cause NBCUniversal
Holdings to redeem 15% of its preferred units during the 30 day period beginning on March 19, 2020. The price and units in a redemption initiated by either party will be based on the liquidation preference plus accrued but unpaid dividends and
adjusted, in the case of an exercise of NBCUniversal Enterprise s right, to the extent the equity value of NBCUniversal Holdings is less than the liquidation preference. Our cash flows are, and will continue to be, the primary source of funding
for the required payments and for any future redemption of the NBCUniversal Holdings preferred units.       Note 5: Related Party
Transactions           In the
ordinary course of our business, we enter into transactions with Comcast.      We generate revenue from Comcast primarily from the
distribution of our cable network programming and, to a lesser extent, the sale of advertising and our owned programming, and we incur expenses primarily related to advertising and various support services provided by Comcast to us.   
  In 2013, as part of the Comcast cash management process, we and Comcast entered into revolving credit agreements under which we can borrow up to $3
billion from Comcast and Comcast can borrow up to $3 billion from us. Amounts owed by us to Comcast under the revolving credit agreement, including accrued interest, are presented under the caption  note payable to Comcast  in our
consolidated balance sheet. The revolving credit agreements bear interest at floating rates equal to the interest rate under the Comcast and Comcast Cable Communications, LLC revolving credit facility (the  Comcast revolving credit
facility ). The interest rate on the Comcast revolving credit facility consists of a base rate plus a borrowing margin that is determined based on Comcast s credit rating. As of December 31, 2015, the borrowing margin for London
Interbank Offered Rate-based borrowings was 1.00%.      In addition, Comcast is the counterparty to one of our contractual obligations. As
of both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the carrying value of the liability associated with this contractual obligation was $383 million.      The following tables present transactions with Comcast and its consolidated subsidiaries that are included in our consolidated financial statements.      Consolidated Balance Sheet       

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        Consolidated Statement of Income   
   
     Distributions to NBCUniversal Holdings       In addition to the transactions presented in the table above, we make distributions to NBCUniversal Holdings on a periodic basis to enable its owners to meet their obligations to pay taxes on taxable income
generated by our businesses. We also make quarterly distributions to NBCUniversal Holdings to enable it to make its required quarterly payments to NBCUniversal Enterprise at an initial annual rate of 8.25% on the $9.4 billion aggregate liquidation
preference of its preferred units. These distributions are presented under the caption  distributions to member  in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Following the close of the redemption transaction, none of these distributions to
NBCUniversal Holdings are attributable to GE.      In connection with the redemption transaction, we also made a distribution of $3.2
billion to NBCUniversal Holdings to fund a portion of the redemption transaction. This distribution is presented separately in our consolidated statement of cash flows.       Transactions with GE       Following the close of the redemption transaction and the subsequent sale
of NBCUniversal Enterprise s preferred stock and senior notes by GE to unaffiliated third parties in March 2013, we no longer consider GE to be a related party.      In February 2013, Comcast closed an agreement with GE, General Electric Capital Corporation ( GECC ) and LIN TV under which, among other things, we purchased a note held by Station Venture Holdings, LLC
( Station Venture ) from GECC for $602 million, which effectively settled a liability of $482 million that had been recorded in the allocation of purchase price associated with Comcast s acquisition of a controlling interest in
NBCUniversal Holdings in 2011 (the  joint venture transaction ). Due to the related party nature of this transaction, the excess of the purchase price of the Station Venture note over the recorded amount of the liability was recorded to
member s capital. Other than the Station Venture transaction and dividend payments to GE that are included in our consolidated statement of changes in equity and our consolidated statement of cash flows, the amounts related to our transactions
with GE and its consolidated subsidiaries that occurred prior to the close of the redemption transaction were not material.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 6: Film and Television Costs    
       
    Based on our current estimates of the total remaining gross revenue from all sources ( ultimate
revenue ), in 2016 we expect to amortize approximately $1.5 billion of film and television costs associated with our original film and television productions that have been released, or completed and not yet released. Through 2018, we expect to
amortize approximately 87% of unamortized film and television costs for our released productions, excluding amounts allocated to acquired libraries.      As of December 31, 2015, acquired film and television libraries, which are included within the  released, less amortization  captions in the table above, had remaining unamortized costs of $449
million. These costs are generally amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years, and approximately 49% of these costs are expected to be amortized through 2018.       Capitalization of Film and Television Costs       We capitalize film and television production
costs, including direct costs, production overhead, print costs, development costs and interest. We amortize capitalized film and television production costs, including acquired libraries, and accrue costs associated with participation and residual
payments to programming and production expenses. We generally record the amortization and the accrued costs using the individual film forecast computation method, which amortizes such costs in the same ratio as the associated ultimate revenue.
Estimates of ultimate revenue and total costs are based on anticipated release patterns, public acceptance and historical results for similar productions. Unamortized film and television costs, including acquired film and television libraries, are
stated at the lower of unamortized cost or fair value. We do not capitalize costs related to the distribution of a film in movie theaters or the licensing or sale of a film or television production, which are primarily costs associated with the
marketing and distribution of film and television programming.      In determining the estimated lives and method of amortization of
acquired film and television libraries, we generally use the method and the life that most closely follow the undiscounted cash flows over the estimated life of the asset.      Upon the occurrence of an event or a change in circumstance that was known or knowable as of the balance sheet date and that indicates the fair value of a film is less than its unamortized costs, we determine the
fair value of the film and record an impairment charge for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the film s fair value.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        We enter into cofinancing arrangements with third parties to jointly
finance or distribute certain of our film productions. Cofinancing arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor. The number of investors and the terms of these arrangements
can vary, although investors generally assume full risk for the portion of the film acquired in these arrangements. We account for the proceeds received from a third-party investor under these arrangements as a reduction to our capitalized film
costs. In these arrangements, the investor owns an undivided copyright interest in the film, and therefore in each period we record either a charge or a benefit to programming and production expenses to reflect the estimate of the third-party
investor s interest in the profit or loss of the film. The estimate of the third-party investor s interest in the profit or loss of a film is determined using the ratio of actual revenue earned to date to the ultimate revenue expected to
be recognized over the film s useful life.      We capitalize the costs of programming content that we license but do not own,
including rights to multiyear, live-event sports programming, at the earlier of when payments are made for the programming or when the license period begins and the content is available for use. We amortize capitalized programming costs as the
associated programs are broadcast. We amortize multiyear, live-event sports programming rights using the ratio of the current period revenue to the estimated ultimate revenue or under the terms of the contract.   
  Acquired programming costs are recorded at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value on a program by program, package, channel or
daypart basis. A daypart is an aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or programs of a similar type. Programming acquired by our Cable Networks segment is primarily tested on a channel basis for impairment, whereas
programming acquired by our Broadcast Television segment is tested on a daypart basis. If we determine that the estimates of future cash flows are insufficient or if there is no plan to broadcast certain programming, we recognize an impairment
charge to programming and production expenses.       Note 7: Investments    
       
     Equity Method    
  We use the equity method to account for investments in which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee s
operating and financial policies or where we hold significant partnership or LLC interests. Equity method investments are recorded at cost and are adjusted to recognize (1) our proportionate share of the investee s net income or loss after
the date of investment, (2) amortization of the recorded investment that exceeds our share of the book value of the investee s net assets, (3) additional contributions made and dividends received, and (4) impairments resulting
from other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Gains or losses on the sale of equity method investments are recorded to other income (expense), net. If an equity method investee were to issue additional securities that would change our
proportionate share of the entity, we would recognize the change, if any, as a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        The Weather Channel   
  In June and December 2015, TWCC Holding Corp. ( The Weather Channel ) recorded impairment charges related to goodwill. During 2015, we
recorded expenses of $333 million that represent our proportionate share of these impairment charges in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net in our consolidated statement of income. On January 29, 2016, IBM acquired The Weather
Channel s product and technology businesses. The Weather Channel cable network was not acquired and, following the close of the transaction, licenses weather forecast data and analytics from IBM.   
  In June 2013, we received a distribution from The Weather Channel of $152 million, of which $128 million was recorded as a return of our investment
in The Weather Channel and included in other investing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows.      Hulu   
  In July 2013, we entered into an agreement to provide capital contributions totaling $247 million to Hulu, LLC ( Hulu ), which we had
previously accounted for as a cost method investment. This represented an agreement to provide our first capital contribution to Hulu since Comcast acquired its interest in Hulu as part of the joint venture transaction; therefore, we began to apply
the equity method of accounting for this investment. The change in the method of accounting for this investment required us to recognize our proportionate share of Hulu s accumulated losses from the date of the joint venture transaction through
July 2013.      In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized our proportionate share of losses of $106 million, $20 million and $142 million,
respectively, related to our investment in Hulu.      Summarized Financial Information   
  The tables below present the summarized combined financial information of our equity method investments.   

Cost Method    
  We use the cost method to account for investments not accounted for under the fair value method or the equity method.   
  In September 2015, we made an additional investment in Vox Media, Inc. ( Vox Media ) and acquired an interest in BuzzFeed, Inc.
( BuzzFeed ) for $200 million each in cash. Vox Media is a digital media company comprised of eight distinct brands. BuzzFeed is a global media company that produces and distributes original news, entertainment and videos.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Impairment Testing of Investments    
  We review our investment portfolio each reporting period to determine whether there are identified events or circumstances that would indicate there
is a decline in the fair value that would be considered other than temporary. For our nonpublic investments, if there are no identified events or circumstances that would have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment, then
the fair value is not estimated. If an investment is deemed to have experienced an other-than-temporary decline below its cost basis, we reduce the carrying amount of the investment to its quoted or estimated fair value, as applicable, and establish
a new cost basis for the investment. For our available-for-sale securities and cost method investments, we record the impairment to investment income (loss), net. For our equity method investments, we record the impairment to other income (expense),
net. In 2013, we recorded $249 million of impairment charges to our equity method investments, which primarily related to a regional sports cable network based in Houston, Texas.       Note 8: Property and Equipment        
   
    Property and equipment are stated at cost. We capitalize improvements that extend asset lives and expense repairs
and maintenance costs as incurred. We record depreciation using the straight-line method over the asset s estimated useful life. For assets that are sold or retired, we remove the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation and, unless the
gain or loss on disposition is presented separately, we recognize it as a component of depreciation expense.      We evaluate the
recoverability of our property and equipment whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on the cash flows generated by the underlying asset groups,
including estimated future operating results, trends or other determinants of fair value. If the total of the expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset group, we would recognize an impairment charge to
the extent the carrying amount of the asset group exceeded its estimated fair value. Unless presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a component of depreciation expense.       Acquisitions of Real Estate Properties       Real estate acquisitions in 2013 included our purchase
from GE of certain properties we occupy at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City and CNBC s headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Other purchases in 2013 included our acquisition of a business whose primary asset is a property located
at 10 Universal City Plaza, which is adjacent to our Universal theme park in Hollywood, California. The purchase price of these acquisitions is included in the caption  acquisitions of real estate properties  in our consolidated statement
of cash flows.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 9: Goodwill and Intangible Assets    
       Goodwill    

(a)  
     
    Adjustments to goodwill in 2015 and 2014 included foreign currency translation. Adjustments to goodwill in 2014 included the reclassification of Fandango, our
movie ticketing and entertainment business, from our Cable Networks segment to our Filmed Entertainment segment.          

(b)  
     
    Acquisitions in 2015 in our Theme Parks segment related to the Universal Studios Japan transaction (see Note 4 for additional information).
        We assess the recoverability of our goodwill annually, or more frequently whenever events or substantive changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. To determine our reporting units, we evaluate the components one level below the segment
level and we aggregate the components if they have similar economic characteristics. As a result of this assessment, our reporting units are the same as our four reportable segments. We evaluate the determination of our reporting units used to test
for impairment periodically or whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances occur. The assessment of recoverability may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a
determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. A quantitative assessment is performed if the qualitative assessment results in a more-likely-than-not determination or if a
qualitative assessment is not performed. The quantitative assessment considers if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, in which case an impairment charge is recorded to the extent the carrying amount of the reporting
unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Unless presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a component of amortization expense.       Intangible Assets        

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets   
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names and FCC licenses. We assess the recoverability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets
annually, or more frequently whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. We evaluate the unit of account used to test for impairment of our indefinite-lived intangible assets periodically or
whenever events or substantive changes in circumstances occur to ensure impairment testing is performed at an appropriate level. The assessment of recoverability may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not
that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. A quantitative assessment is performed if the qualitative assessment results in a more-likely-than-not determination or if a qualitative assessment is not
performed. When performing a quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily based on a discounted cash flow analysis that involves significant judgment. When analyzing the fair values
indicated under the discounted cash flow models, we also consider multiples of operating income before depreciation and amortization generated by the underlying assets, current market transactions, and profitability information. If the fair value of
our indefinite-lived intangible assets were less than the carrying amount, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets. Unless presented separately, the impairment
charge is included as a component of amortization expense. We did not recognize any material impairment charges in any of the periods presented.      Finite-Lived Intangible Assets      Estimated Amortization Expense of Finite-Lived
Intangible Assets       
    Finite-lived intangible assets are subject to amortization and consist primarily of customer relationships acquired
in business combinations, intellectual property rights and software. Our finite-lived intangible assets are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life or the term of the associated agreement.   
  We capitalize direct development costs associated with internal-use software, including external direct costs of material and services and payroll
costs for employees devoting time to these software projects. We also capitalize costs associated with the purchase of software licenses. We include these costs in intangible assets and generally amortize them on a straight-line basis over a period
not to exceed five years. We expense maintenance and training costs, as well as costs incurred during the preliminary stage of a project, as they are incurred. We capitalize initial operating system software costs and amortize them over the life of
the associated hardware.      We evaluate the recoverability of our finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or substantive changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on the cash flows generated by the underlying asset groups, including estimated future operating results, trends or other determinants of fair value. If
the total of the expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset group, we would recognize an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount of the asset group exceeded its estimated fair value. Unless
presented separately, the impairment charge is included as a component of amortization expense.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 10: Long-Term Debt    
      Long-Term Debt Outstanding   

(a)  
     
    Includes the effects of our derivative financial instruments.         As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, our debt, excluding the note payable to Comcast, had an estimated fair value of $13.4 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. The estimated fair value of our publicly traded
debt is primarily based on Level 1 inputs that use quoted market values for the debt. The estimated fair value of debt for which there are no quoted market prices is based on Level 2 inputs that use interest rates available to us for debt with
similar terms and remaining maturities.      Debt Principal Maturities   
   
     Term Loans    
  As a result of the Universal Studios Japan transaction, we consolidated  400 billion of term loans having a final maturity of November 2020. In
accordance with acquisition accounting, these debt securities were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. These term loans contain financial and operating covenants and are secured by the assets of Universal Studios Japan and the equity
interests of the investors. We do not guarantee these term loans and they are otherwise nonrecourse to us.       Debt Repayments    
  In April 2015, we repaid at maturity $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.65% senior notes due 2015.   
   Cross-Guarantee Structure       We, Comcast and a
100% owned cable holding company subsidiary of Comcast ( CCCL Parent ) fully and unconditionally guarantee each other s debt securities. As of December 31, 2015, we guaranteed $35.1
bil-  

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        lion of outstanding debt securities of Comcast and CCCL Parent. We also
fully and unconditionally guarantee the Comcast revolving credit facility, of which no amounts were outstanding as of December 31, 2015.      We do not, however, guarantee the obligations of NBCUniversal Enterprise with respect to its $4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, $1.35 billion revolving credit facility and associated commercial
paper program, or $725 million liquidation preference of Series A cumulative preferred stock.       Note 11: Fair Value Measurements
          The accounting guidance
related to financial assets and financial liabilities ( financial instruments ) establishes a hierarchy that prioritizes fair value measurements based on the types of inputs used for the various valuation techniques (market approach,
income approach and cost approach). Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the valuation of financial instruments and their classification within the fair value
hierarchy.      Our financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis were not material for all periods
presented.      As a result of the acquisition of the Universal Orlando theme park in 2011, we assumed a contractual obligation that
involves an interest held by a third party in the revenue of certain theme parks. The arrangement provides the counterparty with the right to periodic payments associated with current period revenue and, beginning in 2017, the option to require us
to purchase the interest for cash in an amount based on a contractually specified formula. The arrangement was recognized at fair value at the time of the acquisition and the fair value has been adjusted periodically since the acquisition with the
expectation that the arrangement would be settled in 2017, or shortly thereafter. It has a current carrying value of $1.1 billion and adjustments to fair value, as well as the periodic payments, have been presented in other income (expense), net in
our consolidated statement of income.      As a result of the continuing process of obtaining additional information and revising estimates,
including in 2015 the estimated impact on the arrangement of the Universal Studios Japan transaction and the planned development of a theme park in China, we no longer expect the settlement of the arrangement in 2017, or shortly thereafter.
Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we concluded that we should no longer adjust the arrangement to fair value and it is no longer presented in the recurring fair value measurements table. We also concluded that the amounts that are payable
based on current period revenue should be presented in other operating and administrative expenses. We believe these changes are preferable because they better reflect the economic substance of the arrangement as a revenue participation similar to
those that exist in our film and television agreements. The change in our method of accounting coupled with the change in likelihood of the settlement result in the method being applied prospectively, similar to a change in estimate. See Note 17 for
the treatment of this change in method in our segment reporting presentation.       Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements    
  We have assets that are required to be recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when certain circumstances occur. In the case of film,
television or stage play production costs, when an event or change in circumstance occurs that may indicate that the fair value of a production is less than its unamortized costs, we determine the fair value of the production and record an
adjustment for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the production s fair value. The estimated fair value of a production is based on Level 3 inputs that primarily use an analysis of future expected cash flows.
Adjustments to capitalized film and stage play production costs of $42 million, $26 million and $167 million were recorded in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 12: Postretirement, Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans
          The table below provides
condensed information on our postretirement and pension benefit plans.       

(a)  
     
    The fair value of the plan assets are primarily based on Level 1 inputs that use quoted market prices for identical financial instruments in an active market.
         Postretirement Benefit Plans       We have postretirement medical and life insurance plans that provide continuous coverage to employees eligible to receive such benefits and give credit for length of service provided before the close of the joint
venture transaction in 2011.      Substantially all of the employees that were contributed by Comcast as part of the joint venture
transaction participate in a postretirement healthcare stipend program (the  stipend plan ). The stipend plan provides an annual stipend for reimbursement of healthcare costs to each eligible employee based on years of service. Under the
stipend plan, we are not exposed to the increasing costs of healthcare because the benefits are fixed at a predetermined amount.      All of
our postretirement benefit plans are unfunded and substantially all of our postretirement benefit obligations are recorded to noncurrent liabilities. The expense we recognize for our postretirement benefit plans is determined using certain
assumptions, including the discount rate.       Pension Plans       We sponsor various qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans for domestic employees for which future benefits have been frozen since the beginning of 2013, therefore we did not recognize service costs
related to our pension plans for the periods presented. The expense we recognize for our defined benefit plans is determined using certain assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We
recognize the funded or unfunded status of our defined benefit plans as an asset or liability in our consolidated balance sheet and recognize changes in the funded status in the year in which the changes occur in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss). In addition to the defined benefit plans we sponsor, we are also obligated to reimburse GE for future benefit payments to those participants who were vested in the supplemental pension plan sponsored by GE at the time of the joint
venture transaction.      In September 2015, we settled all of our obligations related to the termination in December 2013 of the
NBCUniversal qualified pension plan. In connection with this final settlement, we fully funded the plan with an additional contribution of $20 million and recorded expenses of $27 million in other operating and administrative expenses.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        Our consolidated balance sheet also includes the assets and liabilities
of certain legacy pension plans, as well as the assets and liabilities for pension plans of certain foreign subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the benefit obligations associated with these plans exceeded the fair value of the plan
assets by $67 million and $51 million, respectively.       Other Employee Benefits       Deferred Compensation Plans      We maintain unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation
plans for certain members of management (each, a  participant ). The amount of compensation deferred by each participant is based on participant elections. Participants in the plan designate one or more valuation funds, independently
established funds or indices that are used to determine the amount of investment gain or loss in the participant s account.   
  Additionally, certain of our employees participate in Comcast s unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The amount of compensation
deferred by each participant is based on participant elections. Participant accounts are credited with income primarily based on a fixed annual rate.      In the case of both deferred compensation plans, participants are eligible to receive distributions from their account based on elected deferral periods that are consistent with the plans and applicable tax law.
     The table below presents the benefit obligation and interest expense for our deferred compensation plans.   
   
    Retirement Investment Plans      We sponsor several 401(k) defined contribution retirement plans that allow eligible employees to contribute a portion of their compensation through payroll deductions in accordance with specified plan guidelines.
We make contributions to the plans that include matching a percentage of the employees  contributions up to certain limits. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, expenses related to these plans totaled $174 million, $165 million and $152 million,
respectively.      Multiemployer Benefit Plans      We participate in various multiemployer benefit plans, including pension and postretirement benefit plans, that cover some of our employees and temporary employees who are represented by labor unions. We also
participate in other multiemployer benefit plans that provide health and welfare and retirement savings benefits to active and retired participants. We make periodic contributions to these plans in accordance with the terms of applicable collective
bargaining agreements and laws but do not sponsor or administer these plans. We do not participate in any multiemployer benefit plans for which we consider our contributions to be individually significant, and the largest plans in which we
participate are funded at a level of 80% or greater.      In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the total contributions we made to multiemployer pension
plans were $77 million, $58 million and $59 million, respectively. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the total contributions we made to multiemployer postretirement and other benefit plans were $119 million, $125 million and $98 million, respectively.
     If we cease to be obligated to make contributions or were to otherwise withdraw from participation in any of these plans, applicable
law would require us to fund our allocable share of the unfunded vested benefits, which is known as a withdrawal liability. In addition, actions taken by other participating employers may lead to adverse changes in the financial condition of one of
these plans, which could result in an increase in our withdrawal liability.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        Severance Benefits   
  We provide severance benefits to certain former employees. A liability is recorded when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and
the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded severance costs of $113 million, $113 million and $116 million, respectively.       Note 13: Share-Based Compensation        
  The tables below provide condensed information on our share-based compensation.      Recognized Share-Based Compensation Expense       
    As of December 31, 2015, we had unrecognized pretax compensation expense of $150 million related to nonvested
Comcast restricted share units ( RSUs ) and unrecognized pretax compensation expense of $21 million related to nonvested Comcast stock options that will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.8 years and 2.0 years,
respectively.      Comcast maintains share-based compensation plans that primarily consist of awards of RSUs and stock options to certain
employees and directors as part of its approach to long-term incentive compensation. Awards generally vest over a period of 5 years and in the case of stock options, have a 10 year term. Additionally, through its employee stock purchase plans,
employees are able to purchase shares of Comcast common stock at a discount through payroll deductions. Certain of our employees participate in these plans and the expense associated with their participation is settled in cash with Comcast.
     The cost associated with Comcast s share-based compensation is based on an award s estimated fair value at the date of grant
and is recognized over the period in which any related services are provided. RSUs are valued based on the closing price of Comcast common stock on the date of grant and are discounted for the lack of dividends, if any, during the vesting period.
Comcast uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock option awards. The table below presents the weighted-average fair value on the date of grant of RSUs and stock options awarded under Comcast s various plans
to employees of NBCUniversal and the related weighted-average valuation assumptions.       

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 14: Income Taxes    
      Components of Income Tax Expense
      
    We are a limited liability company, and our company is disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes as an
entity separate from NBCUniversal Holdings, a tax partnership. NBCUniversal and our subsidiaries are not expected to incur any significant current or deferred U.S. domestic income taxes. Our tax liability is comprised primarily of withholding tax on
foreign licensing activity and income taxes on foreign earnings. As a result of our tax status, the deferred tax assets and liabilities included in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were not material.   
  In jurisdictions in which we are subject to income taxes, we base our provision for income taxes on our current period income, changes in our
deferred income tax assets and liabilities, income tax rates, changes in estimates of our uncertain tax positions, and tax planning opportunities available in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities
when there are temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities and for the expected benefits of using net operating loss carryforwards. When a change in the tax rate or tax law has an impact on
deferred taxes, we apply the change based on the years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We record the change in our consolidated financial statements in the period of enactment.   
  We classify interest and penalties, if any, associated with our uncertain tax positions as a component of income tax expense.   
   Uncertain Tax Positions       We retain
liabilities for uncertain tax positions where we are the tax filer of record. GE and Comcast have indemnified NBCUniversal Holdings and us with respect to our income tax obligations attributable to periods prior to the close of the joint venture
transaction, including indemnification of uncertain tax positions for these periods. The liabilities for uncertain tax positions included in our consolidated balance sheet were not material as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.   
  Various domestic and foreign tax authorities are examining our tax returns through 2014. The majority of the periods under examination relate to
tax years 2005 and forward.       Note 15: Supplemental Financial Information    
      Receivables   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
        In addition to the amounts in the table above, as of December 31,
2015 and 2014, noncurrent receivables of $721 million and $569 million, respectively, are included in other noncurrent assets, net that primarily relate to the licensing of our television and film productions to third parties.   
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)       
    Cash Payments for Interest and Income Taxes   
   
     Noncash Investing and Financing Activities       During 2015:       

we acquired $287 million of property and equipment and intangible assets that were accrued but unpaid    

Comcast contributed the net assets of $252 million related to an acquired business, which was a noncash transaction    

we assumed liabilities related to the Universal Studios Japan transaction (see Note 4 for additional information)    
          During 2014:   

we acquired $148 million of property and equipment and intangible assets that were accrued but unpaid    
          During 2013:   

we acquired $306 million of property and equipment and intangible assets that were accrued but unpaid    

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies    
       Commitments    
  We enter into long-term commitments with third parties in the ordinary course of our business, including commitments to acquire film and television
programming, creative talent and employment agreements, and various other television-related commitments. Many of our employees, including writers, directors, actors, technical and production personnel, and others, as well as some of our on-air and
creative talent, are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. As of December 31, 2015, the total number of full-time, part-time and hourly employees on our payroll covered by collective bargaining agreements was 7,500
full-time equivalent employees. Of this total, approximately 10% of these full-time equivalent employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired or are scheduled to expire during 2016.   
  The table below summarizes our minimum annual programming and talent commitments and our minimum annual rental commitments for office space and
equipment under operating leases. Programming and talent commitments include acquired film and television programming, including U.S. television rights to the Olympic Games through 2032,  Sunday Night Football  on NBC through the 2022-23
season, NASCAR on the NBC Sports Network through 2024 and other programming commitments, as well as various contracts with creative talent and employment agreements.       
    The table below presents our rental expense charged to operations.   

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    
         Note 17: Financial Data by Business Segment    
      We present our operations in four
reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks. Our financial data by reportable business segment is presented in the tables below.   

(a)  
     
    Beginning in 2014, Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business that was previously presented in our Cable Networks segment, is now presented in
the Filmed Entertainment segment to reflect the change in our management reporting presentation. Due to immateriality, prior period amounts have not been adjusted.      

(b)  
     
    The revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl were reported in our Broadcast Television segment. The
revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2014 Sochi Olympics were reported in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments.      

Table of Contents  

    NBCUniversal Media, LLC    

(c)  
     
    As disclosed in Note 11, we changed our method of accounting for a contractual obligation that involves an interest in the revenue of certain theme parks. As
a result of the change, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, amounts payable based on current period revenue are presented in operating costs and expenses. Amounts paid through the third quarter of 2015 were included in other income (expense),
net in our consolidated statement of income. For segment reporting purposes, we have adjusted periods prior to the fourth quarter of 2015 to reflect management reporting presentation for this expense on a consistent basis for all periods in the
Theme Parks segment, which resulted in an offsetting adjustment in Eliminations. Therefore, we have reduced our Theme Parks segment operating income before depreciation and amortization and operating income by $63 million, $72 million and $61
million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, while corresponding amounts have been reflected in Eliminations to reconcile to consolidated operating income.      

(d)  
     
    Headquarters and Other activities include costs associated with overhead, allocations, personnel costs and corporate initiatives.

(e)  
     
    Eliminations are transactions that our segments enter into with one another, which consisted primarily of the licensing of film and television content from
our Filmed Entertainment and Broadcast Television segments to our Cable Networks segment.          

(f)  
     
    No single customer accounted for a significant amount of revenue in any period.      

(g)  
     
    We use operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses
from the sale of assets, if any, as the measure of profit or loss for our operating segments. This measure eliminates the significant level of noncash amortization expense that results from intangible assets recognized in connection with the joint
venture transaction and other business combinations. Additionally, it is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. We use this measure to evaluate our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of our
operating segments and to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments. It is also a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it is one of
the bases for comparing our operating performance with that of other companies in our industries, although our measure may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies. This measure should not be considered a substitute for
operating income (loss), net income (loss) attributable to NBCUniversal, net cash provided by operating activities, or other measures of performance or liquidity we have reported in accordance with GAAP.      

(h)  
     
    We operate primarily in the United States, but also in select international markets primarily in Europe and Asia. The table below summarizes revenue by
geographic location.          

Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of    
   Comcast Corporation    
   Philadelphia, Pennsylvania    
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Comcast Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,
2015 and 2014, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, and have issued our report thereon dated February 5, 2016;
such report is included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   
  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania   
  February 5, 2016   

Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Member of NBCUniversal Media,        LLC New York, New York       We have audited the consolidated financial statements of NBCUniversal
Media, LLC and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, and have issued our report thereon dated February 5, 2016; such report is
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   
  New York, New York      February 5,
2016   

Table of Contents  

   Comcast Corporation and Subsidiaries      Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      Year ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   
         
    NBCUniversal Media, LLC      Schedule
II  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      Year ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   

(a)  
     
    Additions and deductions related to allowance for returns and customer incentives include amounts for distribution on behalf of third parties. Additions and
deductions related to allowance for returns and customer incentives for the year ended December 31, 2013 also reflect corrections to change amounts that were previously recorded net.      

<EX-10.11>
 2
 d49239dex1011.htm
 EX-10.11

EX-10.11 

Exhibit 10.11   
  COMCAST CORPORATION   
  2006 CASH BONUS PLAN   
  (Amended and Restated, Effective February 18, 2015)       

1.  
  BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE       Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, hereby amends
and restates the Comcast Corporation 2006 Cash Bonus Plan (the  Plan ), effective February 18, 2015. The Plan was originally adopted effective January 1, 2006. The Plan is the successor to the Comcast Corporation 2002 Cash Bonus
Plan (the  2002 CB Plan ), the Comcast Corporation 2002 Executive Cash Bonus Plan (the  Executive Plan ), the Comcast Corporation 2002 Supplemental Cash Bonus Plan (the  Supplemental Plan ) and the Comcast Corporation
2004 Management Achievement Plan (the  MAP ). The purpose of the Plan is to provide management employees of Comcast Corporation (the  Company ) and the Company s Affiliates (as defined below) with an incentive to accomplish
such business objectives as from time to time may be determined by the Committee.      

2.  
  DEFINITIONS       (a)   Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, any
other person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term  control,  including its correlative terms  controlled by  and
 under common control with,  mean, with respect to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting
securities, by contract or otherwise.    (b)   Award   means a cash bonus award granted under the Plan. Except as otherwise
provided by the Committee, an Award shall be expressed as the percentage of a Grantee s base salary payable for a Plan Year that shall become payable if the Targets established by the Committee are satisfied. The portion of an Award that shall
be payable to a Grantee shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with the rules established for the Award for each Plan Year.  
 (c)   Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
 (d)   Change of Control   means any transaction or series of transactions as a result of which any Person who was a Third
Party immediately before such transaction or series of transactions owns then-outstanding securities of the Company such that such Person has the ability to direct the management of the Company, as determined by the Board in its discretion. The
Board may also determine that a Change of Control shall occur upon the completion of one or more proposed transactions. The Board s determination shall be final and binding.  

(e)   Committee   means the Compensation Committee of the Board, provided that
all references to the Committee shall be treated as references to the Committee s delegate with respect to any Award granted within the scope of the delegate s authority pursuant to Paragraph 3(c).  
 (f)   Company   means Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, including any successor thereto by merger,
consolidation, acquisition of all or substantially all the assets thereof, or otherwise.    (g)   Date of Grant   means the
date on which an Award is granted.    (h)   Disability   means:  
 (i) A Grantee s substantially inability to perform the Grantee s employment duties due to partial or total disability or incapacity
resulting from a mental or physical illness, injury or other health-related cause for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or for a cumulative period of fifty-two (52) weeks in any twenty-four (24) consecutive-month period; or
   (ii) If more favorable to the Grantee,  Disability  as it may be defined in such Grantee s employment agreement between
the Grantee and the Company or an Affiliate, if any.    (i)   Eligible Employee   means an employee of the Company or an
Affiliate, as determined by the Committee.    (j)   Grantee   means an Eligible Employee who is granted an Award.  
 (k)   Person   means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization.
   (l)   Plan   means the Comcast Corporation 2006 Cash Bonus Plan as set forth herein, and as amended from time to time.
   (m)   Plan Year   means the calendar year.  
 (n)   Qualitative Performance Standards   means performance standards other than Quantitative Performance Standards, including
but not limited to customer service, management effectiveness, workforce diversity and other Qualitative Performance Standards relevant to the Company s business, as may be established by the Committee, and the achievement of which shall be
determined in the discretion of the Committee.    (o)   Quantitative Performance Standards   means performance standards
such as income, expense, operating cash flow, capital spending, numbers of customers of or subscribers for various services and products offered by the Company or a division, customer service measurements and other objective financial or
service-based standards relevant to the Company s business as may be established by the Committee.  
      -2-  

(p)   Retirement   means termination of employment with the Company and its
Affiliates after reaching age 57 and completing 10 or more years of service.    (q)   Section 16(b) Officer   means an
officer of the Company who is subject to the short-swing profit recapture rules of section 16(b) of the 1934 Act.    (r)   Section
162(m) Award   means an Award granted to an individual who, at the Date of Grant, is a  covered employee  within the meaning of section 162(m)(3) of the Code that is designated as a Section 162(m) Award and under which payment
is conditioned on the achievement of one or more Quantitative Performance Standards.    (s)   Target   means, for any Plan
Year, the Qualitative Performance Standards and the Quantitative Performance Standards established by the Committee, in its discretion. Qualitative Performance Standards, Quantitative Performance Standards and the weighting of such Standards may
differ from Plan Year to Plan Year, and within a Plan Year, may differ among Grantees or classes of Grantees.    (t)   Terminating
Event   means any of the following events:    (i) the liquidation of the Company; or  
 (ii) a Change of Control.  
 (u)   Third Party   means any Person, together with such Person s Affiliates, provided that the term  Third
Party  shall not include the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.      

3.  
  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN       (a)  Administration . The Plan shall be administered
by the Committee. The Committee shall have the power and duty to do all things necessary or convenient to effect the intent and purposes of the Plan and not inconsistent with any of the provisions hereof, whether or not such powers and duties are
specifically set forth herein, and, by way of amplification and not limitation of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the power to:  
 (i) provide rules and regulations for the management, operation and administration of the Plan, and, from time to time, to amend or
supplement such rules and regulations;    (ii) construe the Plan, which construction, as long as made in good faith, shall be final and
conclusive upon all parties hereto;    (iii) correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in such
manner and to such extent as it shall deem expedient to carry the same into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of when such action shall be appropriate; and  
      -3-  

(iv) determine whether the conditions to the payment of a cash bonus pursuant to an Award have
been satisfied.    The resolution of any questions with respect to payments and entitlements pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be determined by
the Committee, and all such determinations shall be final and conclusive.    (b)  Grants . Subject to the express terms and conditions
set forth in the Plan, the Committee shall have the power, from time to time, to select those Eligible Employees to whom Awards shall be granted under the Plan, to determine the amount of cash to be paid pursuant to each Award, and, pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan, to determine the terms and conditions of each Award.    (c)  Delegation of Authority . The Committee may
delegate its authority with respect to the grant, amendment, interpretation and administration of grants to a person, persons or committee, in its sole and absolute discretion. Actions taken by the Committee s duly-authorized delegate shall
have the same force and effect as actions taken by the Committee. Any delegation of authority pursuant to this Paragraph 3(c) shall continue in effect until the earliest of:  
 (i) such time as the Committee shall, in its sole and absolute discretion, revoke such delegation of authority;  
 (ii) in the case of delegation to a person that is conditioned on such person s continued service as an employee of the Company or as a
member of the Board, the date such delegate shall cease to serve in such capacity for any reason; or    (iii) the delegate shall notify the
Committee that he or she declines to continue to exercise such authority.    (d)  Grantee Information . The Company shall furnish to
the Committee in writing all information the Company deems appropriate for the Committee to exercise its powers and duties in administration of the Plan. Such information shall be conclusive for all purposes of the Plan and the Committee shall be
entitled to rely thereon without any investigation thereof; provided, however, that the Committee may correct any errors discovered in any such information.      

4.  
  ELIGIBILITY       Awards may be granted only to Eligible Employees of the Company and its
Affiliates, as determined by the Committee. No Awards shall be granted to an individual who is not an Eligible Employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.      
   The Committee may grant Awards in accordance with the Plan. The terms and
conditions of Awards shall be as determined from time to time by the Committee, consistent, however, with the following:    (a)  Time of
Grant . Awards may be granted at any time from the date of adoption of the Plan by the Board until the Plan is terminated by the Board or the Committee.  
      -4-  

(b)   Non-uniformity  of Awards . The provisions of
Awards need not be the same with respect to each Grantee.    (c)  Establishment of Targets and Conditions to Payment of Awards .  
 (i) Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, Awards shall be expressed as a percentage of a Grantee s base salary.  
 (ii) The Committee shall establish such conditions on the payment of a bonus pursuant to an Award as it may, in its sole discretion, deem
appropriate.    (iii) The Award may provide for the payment of Awards in installments, or upon the satisfaction of Qualitative Performance
Standards or Quantitative Performance Standards, on an individual, divisional or  Company-wide  basis, as determined by the Committee.  
 (iv) For any Section 162(m) Award, the Committee shall establish the Targets for each Plan Year no later than 90 days after the first
day of the Plan Year, or, if sooner, within the first 25% of the Plan Year, provided, however, that the Committee must determine that, as of the date the Quantitative Performance Standards are established, it is substantially uncertain whether the
Quantitative Performance Standards will be achieved.    (v) Each Grantee shall be entitled to receive payment of the Award for a Plan Year
only after certification by the Committee that the Targets established by the Committee for such Plan Year have been satisfied. The Company shall pay the Awards under the Plan to each Grantee as soon as reasonably practicable following the end of
each Plan Year, but not later than 2-1/2 months following the close of such Plan Year.    (vi) For purposes of calculating whether any
Quantitative Performance Standard has been met, in the event there is a significant acquisition or disposition of any assets, business division, company or other business operations of the Company or such division or business unit that is reasonably
expected to have an effect on the Quantitative Performance Standard as otherwise determined under the terms of the Plan, the relevant performance objectives shall be adjusted to take into account the impact of such acquisition or disposition by
increasing or decreasing such goals in the same proportion as the relevant performance measure of the Company or such division or business unit would have been affected for the prior performance measurement period on a pro forma basis had such an
acquisition or disposition occurred on the same date during the prior performance measurement period; provided further that such adjustment shall be based upon the historical equivalent of the relevant performance measure of the business or assets
so acquired or disposed of for the prior performance measurement period, as shown by such records as are available to the Company, as further adjusted to reflect any aspects of the transaction that should be taken into account to ensure
comparability between amounts in the prior performance measurement period and the current performance measurement period.  
      -5-  

(vii) Notwithstanding the determination of the amount of a Grantee s bonus payable with
respect to any Plan Year under the Plan, the Committee shall have the discretion to reduce or eliminate the bonus otherwise payable to a Grantee if it determines that such a reduction or elimination of the bonus is in the best interests of the
Company. The Committee may not waive, in whole or in part, any remaining conditions to payment of a Section 162(m) Award.    (e)
 Transfer and Termination of Grantee s Employment .    (1)  Transfer of Employment . A transfer of an Eligible Employee
between two employers, each of which is the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (a  Transfer ), shall not be deemed a termination of employment. The Committee may grant Awards pursuant to which the Committee reserves the right to modify
the calculation of an Award in connection with a Transfer. In general, except as otherwise provided by the Committee at the time an Award is granted or in connection with a Transfer, upon the Transfer of a Grantee between divisions while an Award is
outstanding and unexpired, the outstanding Award shall be treated as having terminated and expired, and a new Award shall be treated as having been made, effective as of the effective date of the Transfer, for the portion of the Award which had not
expired or been paid, but subject to the performance and payment conditions applicable generally to Awards for Grantees who are employees of the transferee division, all as shall be determined by the Committee in an equitable manner.  
 (2)  Termination of Employment .  
 (i)  Termination For Any Reason Other Than Death, Disability or Retirement . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, if a Grantee
terminates employment with the Company and its Affiliates for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, all Awards remaining subject to conditions to payment shall be forfeited by the Grantee and deemed canceled by the Company.  
 (ii)  Termination Because of Death . If a Grantee terminates employment with the Company and its Affiliates because of death, the
Company shall pay the Award to the Grantee s estate as soon as practicable following the Grantee s death, but not later than the 15 th  day of the third month beginning after calendar year
in which the Grantee dies. The Award shall be calculated based on the assumption that the applicable Targets were satisfied, and based on the Grantee s compensation earned through the date of the Grantee s death.  
 (iii)  Termination Because of Disability or Retirement . If a Grantee terminates employment with the Company and its Affiliates because
of Disability or Retirement, the Company shall pay the Award to the Grantee at the same time that Awards are payable to Grantees whose employment has not terminated. The Award shall be calculated based on the extent to which the applicable Targets
are actually satisfied for the calendar year in which the Grantee s employment terminated, and based on the Grantee s compensation earned through the date of the Grantee s termination of employment.  
      -6-  

(f)  Maximum Grant . In no event shall the amount paid to any Grantee pursuant to an Award
for any Plan Year exceed $12 million, provided that subject to the approval of the Plan by the Company s shareholders, the maximum amount paid pursuant to an Award for any Plan Year beginning after 2015 shall not exceed $14 million.  
 (g)  Shareholder Approval . The effectiveness of the grants of Section 162(m) Awards under the Plan for any Plan Year beginning
after 2015 relating to payments on the satisfaction of the Quantitative Performance Standards established by the Committee from time to time shall be conditioned on the approval of the Plan by the Company s shareholders.  

6.  
  TERMINATING EVENTS       The Committee shall give Grantees at least thirty
(30) days  notice (or, if not practicable, such shorter notice as may be reasonably practicable) prior to the anticipated date of the consummation of a Terminating Event. The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in such notice that
upon the consummation of such Terminating Event, any remaining conditions to payment of a Grantee s Award shall be waived, in whole or in part.      

7.  
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION       No Section 162(m) Awards shall be granted for any
period commencing after December 31, 2020 provided that the effectiveness of the grants of Section 162(m) Awards under the Plan after December 31, 2015 relating to payments on the satisfaction of the Quantitative Performance Standards
established by the Committee from time to time shall be conditioned on the approval of the Plan by the Company s shareholders. The Plan may be terminated by the Board or the Committee at any time. The Plan may be amended by the Board or the
Committee at any time. No Award shall be affected by any such termination or amendment without the written consent of the Grantee.      

8.  
  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS       (a)  Unsecured Creditor Status . A Grantee entitled to
payment of an Award hereunder shall rely solely upon the unsecured promise of the Company, as set forth herein, for the payment thereof, and nothing herein contained shall be construed to give to or vest in a Grantee or any other person now or at
any time in the future, any right, title, interest, or claim in or to any specific asset, fund, reserve, account, insurance or annuity policy or contract, or other property of any kind whatever owned by the Company, or in which the Company may have
any right, title, or interest, nor or at any time in the future.    (b)  Non-Assignment of Awards . The Grantee shall not be permitted
to sell, transfer, pledge or assign any amount payable pursuant to the Plan or an Award, provided that the right to payment under an Award may pass by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  
 (c)  Other Company Plans . It is agreed and understood that any benefits under this Plan are in addition to any and all benefits to
which a Grantee may otherwise be entitled under any other contract, arrangement, or voluntary pension, profit sharing or other  
      -7-  

compensation plan of the Company, whether funded or unfunded, and that this Plan shall not affect or impair the rights or obligations of the Company or a Grantee under any other such contract,
arrangement, or voluntary pension, profit sharing or other compensation plan.    (d)  Separability . If any term or condition of the
Plan shall be invalid or unenforceable to any extent or in any application, then the remainder of the Plan, with the exception of such invalid or unenforceable provision, shall not be affected thereby, and shall continue in effect and application to
its fullest extent.    (e)  Continued Employment . Neither the establishment of the Plan, any provisions of the Plan, nor any action
of the Committee shall be held or construed to confer upon any Grantee the right to a continuation of employment by the Company. The Company reserves the right to dismiss any employee (including a Grantee), or otherwise deal with any employee
(including a Grantee) to the same extent as though the Plan had not been adopted.    (f)  Incapacity . If the Committee determines
that a Grantee is unable to care for his affairs because of illness or accident, any benefit due such Grantee under the Plan may be paid to his spouse, child, parent, or any other person deemed by the Committee to have incurred expense for such
Grantee (including a duly appointed guardian, committee, or other legal representative), and any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the Company s obligation hereunder.  
 (g)  Withholding . The Company shall withhold the amount of any federal, state, local or other tax, charge or assessment attributable to
the grant of any Award or lapse of restrictions under any Award as it may deem necessary or appropriate, in its sole discretion.    (h)
 Repayment . If it is determined by the Board that gross negligence, intentional misconduct or fraud by a Section 16(b) Officer or a former Section 16(b) Officer caused or partially caused the Company to have to restate all or a
portion of its financial statements, the Board, in its sole discretion, may, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent it determines in its sole judgment that it is in the best interests of the Company to do so, require repayment of any Award
(or a portion thereof) to such Section 16(b) Officer or former Section 16(b) Officer if (i) the Award was calculated based upon, or contingent on, the achievement of financial or operating results that were the subject of or affected
by the restatement, and (ii) the amount of the Award would have been less had the financial statements been correct. In addition, to the extent that the receipt of an Award subject to repayment under this Paragraph 8(h) has been deferred
pursuant to the Comcast Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (or any other plan, program or arrangement that permits the deferral of receipt of an Award), such Award (and any earnings credited with respect thereto) shall be forfeited in lieu
of repayment.      

9.  
  GOVERNING LAW       The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant to the
Plan shall be governed in accordance with Pennsylvania law.  
      -8-  

The effective date of this amendment and restatement of the Plan is
February 18, 2015.    Executed on the 18th day of February 2015  

COMCAST CORPORATION  

BY: 
   
   /s/ David L. Cohen   

ATTEST: 
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   

-9-  

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 3
 d49239dex1012.htm
 EX-10.12

EX-10.12 

Exhibit 10.12   
         
 THE COMCAST CORPORATION RETIREMENT-INVESTMENT PLAN  
 (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2016)       

TABLE OF CONTENTS      

Page 

ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS  

4 

ARTICLE II TRANSITION AND ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE  

20 

Section 2.1.  
   
    Rights Affected and Preservation of Accrued Benefit   

20 

Section 2.2.  
   
    Eligibility to Participate .  

20 

Section 2.3.  
   
    Election to Make Pre-Tax Contributions .  

21 

Section 2.4.  
   
    Eligibility to Participate   After-Tax Contributions   

21 

Section 2.5.  
   
    Data   

21 

Section 2.6.  
   
    Credit for Qualified Military Service   

21 

ARTICLE III CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PLAN  

22 

Section 3.1.  
   
    Pre-Tax Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions and Roth Contributions .  

22 

Section 3.2.  
   
    After-Tax Contributions   

23 

Section 3.3.  
   
    Change of Percentage Rate   

23 

Section 3.4.  
   
    Discontinuance of Pre-Tax Contributions, Roth Contributions and After-Tax Contributions   

23 

Section 3.5.  
   
    Matching Contributions .  

24 

Section 3.6.  
   
    Comcast Retirement Contributions   

25 

Section 3.7.  
   
    Timing and Deductibility of Contributions   

26 

Section 3.8.  
   
    Fund   

26 

Section 3.9.  
   
    Limitation on Pre-Tax Contributions and Matching Contributions .  

26 

Section 3.10.  
   
    Prevention of Violation of Limitation on Pre-Tax Contributions and Matching Contributions   

27 

Section 3.11.  
   
    Maximum Allocation .  

29 

Section 3.12.  
   
    Safe Harbor Status   

30 

Section 3.13.  
   
    Distribution of Excess Contributions   

30 

ARTICLE IV PARTICIPANTS  ACCOUNTS  

31 

Section 4.1.  
   
    Accounts   

31 

Section 4.2.  
   
    Valuation   

31 

Section 4.3.  
   
    Apportionment of Gain or Loss   

31 

Section 4.4.  
   
    Accounting for Allocations .  

31 

ARTICLE V DISTRIBUTION  

33 

Section 5.1.  
   
    General   

33 

Section 5.2.  
   
    Separation from Service   

33 

Section 5.3.  
   
    Death   

33 

Section 5.4.  
   
    Total Disability   

33 

Section 5.5.  
   
    Valuation for Distribution   

33 

Section 5.6.  
   
    Timing of Distribution   

33 
      
      -i-  

-ii-  

-iii-  

-iv-  

THE COMCAST CORPORATION RETIREMENT-INVESTMENT PLAN  
 Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2016  
   Background    
 Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, established The Comcast Corporation Employees  Thrift Plan (the  Plan ) to
provide benefits to those of its employees and the employees of its subsidiaries who were eligible to participate as provided therein effective December 1, 1979. The Plan was amended from time to time and amended, restated and redesignated The
Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan effective March 1, 1983. The Plan has been amended subsequently, and amended and restated at various times.  
 Comcast Corporation amended, restated and redesignated the Plan as The AT T Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan, effective
November 18, 2002, the date on which the combination of Comcast Corporation and AT T Broadband Corp. was consummated. Immediately following such redesignation, the Plan was renamed as The Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan.  
 The Plan was last amended and restated effective October 21, 2014 (unless otherwise stated herein) to require the freeze, liquidation
and termination of the Company Stock fund over time under the management of an independent fiduciary and to incorporate certain design changes.  
   Plan Mergers/Asset Transfers Prior to the Effective Date    
 The following plans were merged into the Plan as of the dates indicated below:  

(1) 
 Barden Savings Plan, the Michigan Savings Plan, the Suburban Savings Plan and the profit sharing and cash or deferred arrangement portion of the Selkirk Plan were merged with and into this Plan   January 1,
1996        

(2) 
 Jones Intercable, Inc. Profit Sharing\Retirement Savings Plan   October 1, 1999        

Effective April 1, 1998, assets from the tax-qualified defined contribution plan of Marcus Cable (the  Marcus Cable Plan ),
attributable to the account balances of participants in  

the Marcus Cable Plan who transferred employment directly from Marcus Cable to the Company in connection with the Company s acquisition of certain cable television businesses of Marcus
Cable, were transferred to the Plan.    Effective November 1, 1999, assets from the tax-qualified defined contribution plans of
Greater Media (the  Greater Media Plans ), attributable to the account balances of participants in the Greater Media Plans who transferred employment directly from Greater Media to the Company in connection with the Company s
acquisition of the Philadelphia cable television business of Greater Media, were transferred to the Plan.    Effective April 1, 2002,
assets from the Lenfest Group Retirement Plan were transferred to the Plan.    Effective July 1, 2003 (the  Effective
Date ), the Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc. Long Term Savings Plan (formerly the AT T Broadband Long Term Savings Plan) was merged with and into the Plan.  
   CCCHI Plan Mergers/Asset Transfers Prior to the Effective Date    
 The following plans were merged into the CCCHI Plan as of the dates indicated below:  

(4) 
 United Artists Cablesystems Corporation Savings and Investment Plan   August 2, 2002        

Effective
January 25, 2002, assets from the AT T Merger and Acquisition Retirement Savings Plan, to the extent attributable to current and former employees of AT T Broadband, were transferred to the CCCHI Plan.  
   NBCUniversal   Participation/Asset Transfer    
 Effective January 1, 2013, NBCUniversal, LLC became a Participating Company in the Plan such that its employees (other certain employees
who are eligible to participate in the  
      -2-  

NBCUniversal Capital Accumulation Plan from and after January 1, 2013 and certain other employees who are members of certain collectively bargained units) shall be eligible to participate in
this Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan (the  Plan ), subject to the eligibility requirements set forth herein. On or about the January 1, 2013, the assets of the NBCUniversal Capital Accumulation Plan representing the
accounts of NBCUniversal, LLC employees who are eligible to participate in the Plan were transferred to the Fund. The terms and conditions of the Plan, as set forth herein, shall generally apply to Participants who are such as a result of their
employment with NBCUniversal, LLC, except to the extent such provisions contradict with the terms and conditions set forth in  Exhibit B .  
   Amendment and Restatement    
 Comcast Corporation hereby amends and restates The Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2016, unless
stated otherwise herein, to incorporate certain design changes.                      
      
      -3-  

ARTICLE I  
 DEFINITIONS    Except where
otherwise clearly indicated by context, the masculine shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, and  vice-versa.  Any term used herein without an initial capital letter that is used
in a provision of the Code with which this Plan must comply to meet the requirements of section 401(a) of the Code shall be interpreted as having the meaning used in such provision of the Code, if necessary for the Plan to comply with such
provision.      Account   means the entries maintained in the records of the Trustee which represent the Participant s
interest in the Fund. The term  Account  shall refer, as the context indicates, to any or all of the following sub-accounts:  
   After-Tax Matched Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited After-Tax Matched Contributions allocated
to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  After-Tax Matched Contributions  under the CCCHI Plan are credited to this
Account.      After-Tax Rollover Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s After-Tax Rollover
Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  Non-taxable Rollover Contributions  under the CCCHI Plan or as  After-Tax
Rollover Contributions  under the NBCU CAP are credited to this Account.      After-Tax Unmatched Contribution
Account     the Account to which are credited After-Tax Unmatched Contributions allocated to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition,
(i) amounts denominated as  Prior Plan Contributions  under the Plan prior to the Effective Date, (ii) amounts denominated as  After-Tax Unmatched Contributions  under the CCCHI Plan, and (iii) amounts transferred
from a Participant s  Frozen After-Tax Contribution Account  are credited to this Account.      Broadband Heritage
Matching Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions and Prior Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions allocated to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions,
and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto.      Catch-Up Contribution Account     the Account to which
are credited Catch-Up Contributions allocated to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, pre-tax catch-up contributions allocated to a Participant under
the Plan or the CCCHI prior to the Effective Date or under the NBCU CAP are allocated to this Account.  
      -4-  

Comcast Retirement Contributions Account     the Account to which are
credited a Participant s Comcast Retirement Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto.  
   DC Adder Contribution Account (Frozen)     the Account to which are credited amounts denominated as  DC Adder
Contributions  under the NBCU CAP, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto.  
   Matching Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited Matching Contributions allocated to a Participant,
adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, (i) matching contributions under the Plan after December 31, 2000 and through the Effective Date, (ii) matching
contributions under the CCCHI Plan after December 31, 2002 and through the Effective Date, and (iii) matching contributions made to Participants under the NBCU CAP are, in each case, allocated to this Account.  
   NBCU Retirement Contributions Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s NBCU Retirement
Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  Flexible Retirement Account Contributions  under the NBCU CAP are credited to
this Account.      Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s
Pre-Tax Matched Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, (i) amounts denominated as  Salary Reduction Contributions  under the Plan prior to
the Effective Date that were matched, (ii) amounts denominated as  Pre-Tax Matched Contributions  under the CCCHI Plan, and (iii) amounts denominated as  Pre-Tax Contributions  under the NBCU CAP are credited to this
Account.      Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s Pre-Tax
Unmatched Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  Salary Reduction Contributions  under the Plan prior to the Effective
Date that were not matched, as well as amounts denominated as  Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions  under the CCCHI Plan are credited to this Account.  
   Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Unvested)     the Account to which are credited Prior Company Matching
Contributions (Unvested) allocated to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto.  
   Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Vested)     the Account to which are credited Prior Company Matching
Contributions (Vested) allocated to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto.  
      -5-  

QNEC Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s
Qualified Non-Elective Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto, including any amounts designated as qualified non-elective contributions under the Plan or the CCCHI
Plan prior to the Effective Date.      Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited Roth
Catch-Up Contributions allocated to a Participant, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  Roth Catch-Up Contributions  under the NBCU
CAP are credited to this Account.      Roth Matched Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited a
Participant s Roth Matched Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  Roth Contributions  under the NBCU CAP are
credited to this Account.      Roth Rollover Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s Roth
Rollover Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, amounts denominated as  Roth Rollover Contributions  under the NBCU CAP are credited to this
Account.      Roth Unmatched Contribution Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s Roth
Unmatched Contributions, adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto.  
   Taxable Rollover Account     the Account to which are credited a Participant s Taxable Rollover Contributions,
adjustments for withdrawals and distributions, and the earnings, losses and expenses attributable thereto. In addition, (i) amounts denominated as  Rollover Contributions  under the Plan prior to the Effective Date, (ii) amounts
denominated as  Taxable Rollover Contributions  under the CCCHI Plan, and (iii) amount denominated as  Taxable Rollover Contributions  under the NBCU CAP are credited to this Account.  
   Active Participant   means an individual who has become an Active Participant as provided in Article II and has remained a
Covered Employee at all times thereafter.      Actual Deferral Percentage   means, for any Early Entry Eligible Employee for
a given Plan Year, the ratio of:    (a) the sum of:  
 (1) such Early Entry Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contributions for the Plan Year, plus  
 (2) in the case of any Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee, his elective deferrals for the year under any other qualified
retirement plan, other than an employee stock ownership plan as defined in section 4975(e)(7) of the Code or a tax credit employee stock ownership plan as defined in section 409(a) of the Code, maintained by the Participating Company or any
Affiliated Company; to  
      -6-  

(b) the Early Entry Eligible Employee s Compensation for that portion of the Plan Year
during which he was an Early Entry Eligible Employee.      Administrator   means the plan administrator within the meaning
of ERISA. The Committee shall be the Administrator.      Affiliated Company   means, with respect to any Participating
Company:    (a) In General.  
 (1) any corporation that is a member of a controlled group of corporations, as determined under section 414(b) of the Code, which includes
such Participating Company;    (2) any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is under common control with such Participating
Company, as determined under section 414(c) of the Code;    (3) any member of an affiliated service group, as determined under section
414(m) of the Code, of which such Participating Company is a member; and    (4) any other organization or entity which is required to be
aggregated with the Participating Company under section 414(o) of the Code and regulations issued thereunder.    (b)   50%
Affiliated Company .   50% Affiliated Company  means an Affiliated Company described in subsection (a)(1) or subsection (a)(2) of this definition, but determined with  more than 50%  substituted for the phrase  at
least 80%  in section 1563(a) of the Code, when applying sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code.    (c)  Special Rules .
(i) An entity is an Affiliated Company only during those periods in which it is included in a category described in subsection (a) or (b) of this definition. (ii) For purposes of crediting service for eligibility to participate
and vesting, an entity at least 25% owned by the Company or a Participating Company shall be deemed an Affiliated Company; provided that, for purposes of eligibility to participate, crediting of such service is contingent upon an Employee notifying
the Company of such prior service and verification of such prior service.      After-Tax Contributions   means After-Tax
Matched Contributions and After-Tax Unmatched Contributions.      After-Tax Matched Contributions   means an amount that a
Participant who is a Covered Union Employee (Broadband) elects to have deducted from his or her Compensation, in accordance with Article IV, after income taxes have been withheld on such amounts (other than Roth Contributions).  
      -7-  

After-Tax Rollover Contributions   means a contribution to the Plan made in
accordance with the rules of section 402 of the Code and pursuant to Section 7.1 of amounts which will not constitute taxable income to the Participant when distributed or withdrawn (other than Roth Rollover Contributions).  
   After-Tax Unmatched Contributions   means an amount that a Participant who is a Covered Union Employee (Broadband) elects to
have deducted from his or her Compensation, in accordance with Article IV, after income taxes have been withheld on such amounts (other than Roth Contributions). After-Tax Unmatched Contributions are not eligible for Broadband Heritage Matching
Contributions.      Age   means, for any individual, his age on his last birthday, except that an individual reaches Age 59  1   2  or Age 70  1   2  on the corresponding date in the sixth calendar month
following the month in which his 59th or 70th (respectively) birthday falls (or the last day of such sixth month if there is no such corresponding date therein).  
   Annual Benefit Base Rate   means, with respect to an Employee for a Plan Year, such Employee s Base Pay for the
applicable Plan Year plus commissions earned by such Employee during the applicable Plan Year. Annual Benefit Base Rate shall be subject to the annual dollar limitation set forth in section 401(a)(17) of the Code.  
   Annual Rate of Pay   means, as of any date, an employee s annualized base pay rate as reflected on the records of the
Company. An employee s Annual Rate of Pay shall not include sales commissions or other similar payments or awards.  
   AT T Broadband Transaction   means the combination of Comcast Corporation and AT T Broadband Corp., which was
consummated on November 18, 2002.      Average Actual Deferral Percentage   means, for a specified group of Early Entry
Eligible Employees for a Plan Year, the average of the Actual Deferral Percentages for such Early Entry Eligible Employees for the Plan Year.  
   Average Contribution Percentage   means, for a specified group of Early Entry Eligible Employees for a Plan Year, the
average of the Contribution Percentages for such Early Entry Eligible Employees for the Plan Year.      Base Pay   means,
with respect to an Employee for a Plan Year, regular wages actually paid to the Employee in respect of that Plan Year, including wages paid while on vacation or other paid time off (including wages in respect of floating holiday time retroactively
taken and wages paid while on jury duty), flex time, call out pay, standby pay, shift differential and bereavement pay; and excluding overtime pay, pay in respect of any period while the Employee is on long-term or short-term disability, and bonus
payments and other incentive compensation. Base Pay shall be subject to the annual dollar limitation set forth in section 401(a)(17) of the Code.  
   Benefit Commencement Date   means, for any Participant or beneficiary, the date as of which the first benefit payment,
including a single sum, from the Participant s Account is due, other than pursuant to a withdrawal under Article VIII.  
      -8-  

Board of Directors   means the board of directors (or other governing body) of
the Company and, to the extent the Board has delegated its authority hereunder to the Board s Executive Committee, the Executive Committee.  
   Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions   means the amounts contributed by the Company and referenced as  Broadband
Heritage Matching Contributions  pursuant to the Plan as in effect on December 31, 2009.      Catch-Up
Contributions   means for any eligible Participant, contributions on his behalf as provided in Section 3.1.3 or in Section 3.1(b) of  Exhibit B  (as applicable) that are made in accordance with, and subject to the limitations
of, section 414(v) of the Code.      CCCHI Plan   means the Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc. Long Term Savings
Plan (formerly the AT T Broadband Long Term Savings Plan), as in effect on June 30, 2003.      Change in Control  
means (i)  Change in Control  as defined in the AT T 1997 Long Term Incentive Program (as amended May 19, 1999 and March 14, 2000), or (ii) the merger between AT T Broadband and Comcast Corp. contemplated in the
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 19, 2001 by and among AT T Corp., AT T Broadband Corp., Comcast Corporation, AT T Broadband Acquisition Corp., Comcast Acquisition Corp. and AT T Comcast Corporation.  
   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations issued thereunder.  
   Comcast Retirement Contributions   means the amounts contributed by a Participating Company pursuant to Section 3.6.
     Committee   means the individuals appointed to supervise the administration of the Plan, as provided in Article X of
the Plan.      Company   means Comcast Corporation.  
   Company Stock   means Comcast Corporation Class A Common Stock.  
   Compensation   means, for any Eligible Employee, for any Plan Year or Limitation Year, as the case may be:  
 (a) except as otherwise provided below in this definition, and subject to the limitations set forth in subsection (c) of this
definition, his wages as reported on Form W-2 ( i.e. , wages as defined in section 3401(a) of the Code and all other payments of compensation for which the Participating Company is required to furnish the employee a written statement under
sections 6041(d) and 6051(a)(3) of the Code) from a Participating Company for such Plan Year, reduced by reimbursements or other expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash and non-cash), moving expenses, deferred compensation, and welfare benefits,
but including Pre-Tax Contributions and elective contributions that are not includible in gross income under sections 125 or 402(a)(8) of the Code. For avoidance of doubt, amounts paid as  supplemental
 
      -9-  

military pay  (as defined in accordance with Company policies) to an Eligible Employee while on a leave of absence as a result of performing active duty service in the uniformed services
shall be considered Compensation for all purposes of the Plan. For the purposes of the definitions of  Actual Deferral Percentage  and  Contribution Percentage  in this Article (except as otherwise provided in such definitions),
the Company may elect to consider only Compensation as defined above for that portion of the Plan Year during which the Employee was an Eligible Employee, provided that this election is applied uniformly to all Eligible Employees for the Plan Year.
   (b) for the purposes of Article XIII and Section 3.11, subject to the limitations set forth in subsection (c) of this
definition, the Employee s wages as reported on Form W-2 ( i.e. , wages as defined in section 3401(a) of the Code and all other payments of compensation for which the Participating Company is required to furnish the employee a written
statement under sections 6041(d) and 6051(a)(3) of the Code);  provided that , Compensation shall include any elective deferral as defined by section 402(g)(3) of the Code, all employee contributions to an annuity under section 403(b) of the
Code, and any amount which is contributed or deferred by a Participating Company or Affiliated Company at the election of the Employee and which is not includible in the gross income of the Employee by reason of sections 125, 132(f) or 457 of the
Code.    (c) Only compensation not in excess of $265,000, as adjusted for cost-of-living increases in accordance with section 401(a)(17)(B)
of the Code, shall be considered for all purposes under the Plan. The limitation described in this subsection (c) shall be applied beginning from the first day of the Plan Year regardless of whether the applicable Employee transfers employment
between the NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries and the Company and its subsidiaries during such Plan Year.    (d) For purposes of Article
III, except Section 3.11, as applied to Covered Union Employees (Broadband), Compensation shall mean base pay (prior to reductions under sections 125 and 401(k) of the Code), bonuses (other than STIP and executive STIP listed below), payments
received under the Company Sickness and Accident Disability Plan or short term disability payments under the Company Disability Plan, commissions, and buyout of base pay due to demotion or resulting from pay parity, but shall not include:
(1) shift, expatriate, and geographic differentials, overtime, non-cash payments, relocation allowances and special cash payments such as hire, stay or referral payments; (2) payments under the Short-Term Incentive Program (STIP), and
executive bonuses including long-term payments and Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (ESTIP); (3) payments made for waiver of medical coverage, previously deferred compensation, exercise of stock options, gross-up amounts or cashout of paid
time off; (4) deferred compensation in any nonqualified plan; or (5) any compensation that is paid with an effective date after retirement or termination of employment.  
 (e) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, effective on and after January 1, 2006, Compensation shall not include any
payments of compensation as described above in subsections (a), (b) and (d) that are paid more than 75 calendar days after an Employee s Separation from Service.  
      -10-  

Contribution Percentage   means for any Early Entry Eligible Employee for a
given Plan Year, the ratio of:    (a) the sum of  
 (1) such Early Entry Eligible Employee s Matching Contributions, plus  
 (2) in the case of any Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee, any employee contributions and employer matching contributions,
including any elective deferrals recharacterized as employee contributions, under any other qualified retirement plan, other than an employee stock ownership plan as defined in section 4975(e)(7) of the Code or a tax credit employee stock ownership
plan as defined in section 409(a) of the Code, maintained by the Participating Company or any Affiliated Company, plus    (3) at the
election of the Committee, any portion of the Early Entry Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contributions for the Plan Year or elective deferrals under any other qualified retirement plan maintained by a Participating Company or any Affiliated
Company that may be disregarded without causing this Plan or such other qualified retirement plan to fail to satisfy the requirements of section 401(k)(3) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder; to  
 (b) the Early Entry Eligible Employee s Compensation for that portion of the Plan Year during which he was an Early Entry Eligible
Employee.      Covered Employee   means any Employee who is (a) employed by a Participating Company and designated on
the books and records of such Participating Company as an employee and (b) not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, unless such agreement specifically provides for participation hereunder. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, with
respect to NBCUniversal,  Covered Employee  means (a) any Employee of NBCUniversal or its participating subsidiaries who is designated on the books and records of NBCUniversal or its applicable subsidiary as employed in a job
classification, or who with respect to an individual whose employment is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, a collective bargaining unit that was eligible to participate in the NBCUniversal Pension Plan as of January 29, 2011 with
respect to all of his or her compensation (subject to the then applicable limit under section 401(a)(17) of the Code), (b) any Employee of NBCUniversal or its participating subsidiaries hired by NBCUniversal on or after January 29, 2011
and on or before December 31, 2012 (including Employees of NBCUniversal who transferred employment directly from Comcast to NBCUniversal) who is designated on the books and records of NBCUniversal or its applicable subsidiary as employed in a
job classification or, with respect to an individual whose employment is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, a collective bargaining unit that, as of December 31, 2012, was eligible to participate in the NBCU CAP for purposes of
receiving Flexible Retirement Contributions, and (c) any Employee of NBCUniversal or its participating subsidiaries hired on or after January 1, 2013 who is designated on the books and records of NBCUniversal or its applicable subsidiary
as employed in a job classification, or who with respect to an individual whose employment is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, a collective bargaining unit that is not eligible to participant in the NBCU CAP and who otherwise meets the
eligible requirements of the Plan (including for this purpose Section 2.5 of  Exhibit B ). The following individuals shall not be Covered Employees: (a) an Employee of NBCUniversal or its participating subsidiaries whose employment is
governed by a collective bargaining  
      -11-  

agreement that is entered into on or after January 1, 2013 (including, for this purpose, the execution of an amendment to a collective bargaining agreement in effect on December 31,
2012) which agreement does not specifically provide for participation in the Plan; (b) an individual who is treated as an Employee solely by reason of being a Leased Employee; (c) an individual who is not on an employee payroll of a
Participating Company or the Participating Company does report such individual s wages on Form W-2; (d) an individual who has entered into an agreement with a Participating Company which excludes him from participation in employee benefit
plans of a Participating Company (whether or not such individual is treated or classified as an employee for certain specified purposes that do not include eligibility to participate in the Plan); and (e) an individual who is not classified by
the Participating Company as an employee, even if such individual is retroactively recharacterized as an employee by a third party or a Participating Company.  
 Attached as Appendix B to the Plan is a list of collective bargaining units the Employees covered by which are currently considered
 Covered Employees  for purposes of the Plan (subject to the terms of the applicable collective bargaining agreement), as such Appendix B shall be revised from time to time without further action by the Committee to reflect necessary or
appropriate updates to the list.      Covered Union Employee (Broadband)   means a Covered Employee who is represented by
the Communications Workers Union of America at locations designated on Appendix A, as it shall be revised from time to time without further action by the Committee to reflect the date as of which, pursuant to amendment of an applicable collective
bargaining agreement or union decertification, any such location is no longer in a category covered by Appendix A.      Covered
Union Employee (Comcast)   means a Covered Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining agreement that covers Employees at the Detroit, Michigan or New Haven, Michigan locations.  
   Early Entry Eligible Employee   means an Eligible Employee who has satisfied the eligibility requirements of
Section 2.2.1, but has not completed a Period of Service of three months. An Eligible Employee shall be considered an  Early Entry Eligible Employee  only for that portion of a Plan Year prior to the time when such Eligible Employee
has completed a Period of Service of three months.      Early Retirement Date   means the first day of any month coincident
with or following the Severance from Service Date of any Participant who has attained Age 55.      Effective Date   means
July 1, 2003.      Eligible Employee   means an Employee who has become an Eligible Employee as set forth in
Section 2.2, whether or not he is an Active Participant, and who has remained a Covered Employee at all times thereafter.  
   Employee   means an individual who is employed by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company or an individual who is a
Leased Employee.  
      -12-  

Employment Commencement Date   means, for any Employee, the date on which he is
first entitled to be credited with an  Hour of Service  described in Paragraph (a)(1) of the definition of Hour of Service in this Article.  
   ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  
   Fund   means the fund established for this Plan, administered under the Trust Agreement, out of which benefits payable under
this Plan shall be paid.      Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee   means an Early Entry Eligible Employee who
is (or is treated as) a Highly Compensated Employee.      Highly Compensated Employee   means an Employee who:  
 (a) was a five-percent owner, as defined in section 416(i) of the Code at any time during the Plan Year or preceding Plan Year; or  
 (b) for the preceding Plan Year received more than $115,000 (as indexed) in Compensation from a Participating Company or an Affiliated
Company.      Hour of Service   means, for any Employee, a credit awarded with respect to:  
 (a) except as provided in (b),  
 (1) each hour for which he is directly or indirectly paid or entitled to payment by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company for the
performance of employment duties; or    (2) each hour for which he is entitled, either by award or agreement, to back pay from a
Participating Company or an Affiliated Company, irrespective of mitigation of damages; or    (3) each hour for which he is directly or
indirectly paid or entitled to payment by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company on account of a period of time during which no duties are performed due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity (including disability), jury duty, layoff,
leave of absence, or military duty.    (b) Anything to the contrary in subsection (a) notwithstanding:  
 (1) No Hours of Service shall be credited to an Employee for any period merely because, during such period, payments are made or due him
under a plan maintained solely for the purpose of complying with applicable workers  compensation, unemployment compensation, or disability insurance laws.  
 (2) No more than 501 Hours of Service shall be credited to an Employee under subsection (a)(3) of this definition on account of any single
continuous period during which no duties are performed by him, except to the extent otherwise provided in the Plan.  
      -13-  

(3) No Hours of Service shall be credited to an Employee with respect to payments solely to
reimburse for medical or medically related expenses.    (4) No Hours of Service shall be credited twice.  
 (5) Hours of Service shall be credited at least as liberally as required by the rules set forth in U.S. Department of Labor Reg.   2530.200b-2(b)  and (c).    (6) In the case of an Employee who is such solely by reason of service
as a Leased Employee, Hours of Service shall be credited as if such Employee were employed and paid with respect to such service (or with respect to any related absences or entitlements) by the Participating Company or Affiliated Company that is the
recipient thereof.      Investment Medium   means any fund, contract, obligation, or other mode of investment to which a
Participant may direct the investment of the assets of his Account.      Investment Stock   means Comcast Corporation
Class A Special Common Stock.      Leased Employee   means any person, other than an employee of a Participating
Company or an Affiliated Company, who, pursuant to an agreement between a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company (the  recipient ) and any other individual ( leasing organization ), has performed services for the
recipient (or for the recipient and related individuals) on a substantially  full-time  basis for a period of at least one year, and such services are performed by such individuals under the primary direction
and control of the recipient, provided that for purposes of determining whether an individual is an Eligible Employee and for purposes of determining an individual s eligibility and vesting service, an individual who would be a  Leased
Employee  but for the requirement that such individual perform services for the recipient (or for the recipient and related individuals) on a substantially full-time basis for a period of at least one year shall nevertheless be treated as a
Leased Employee.      Limitation Year   means the Plan Year or such other   12-consecutive-month   period as may be designated by the Company.      Matching
Contributions   means the amounts contributed by the Company pursuant to Sections 3.5.1(a) and (b) or pursuant to Section 3.2 of  Exhibit B  (as applicable).  
   NBCU CAP   means the NBCUniversal Capital Accumulation Plan, a defined contribution plan sponsored by NBCUniversal that is
intended to meet the applicable requirements of the Code.      NBCU Retirement Contributions   means the amounts contributed
by a Participating Company pursuant to Section 3.3 of  Exhibit B .  
      -14-  

Normal Retirement Date   means, for any Participant, the date on which he
reaches Age 65.      One-Year Period of Severance   means a 12-consecutive-month period beginning on the Employee s
Severance from Service Date during which the former Employee is credited with no Hours of Service.      Participant   means
an individual for whom one or more Accounts are maintained under the Plan.      Participating Company   means the Company,
each subsidiary of the Company which is eligible to file a consolidated federal income tax return with the Company (except to the extent that the Board or its authorized delegate determines otherwise as reflected on  Exhibit A , as amended from
time to time) and each other organization which is authorized by the Board of Directors or its authorized delegate to adopt this Plan by action of its board of directors or other governing body. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
term  Participating Company  excludes:    (a) effective November 21, 2006, E! Entertainment Television, Inc. and its
subsidiaries;    (b) for the period beginning August 1, 2006 and ending December 17, 2006, thePlatform for Media, Inc.;  
 (c) for the period beginning April 15, 2005 and ending December 31, 2015, Strata Marketing, Inc.;  
 (d) for the period beginning June 17, 2009 and ending December 31, 2009, New England Cable News and its subsidiaries; and  
 (e) effective January 13, 2014, Leisure Arts, Inc.  
   Payroll Period   means a weekly,  bi-weekly, 
 semi-monthly,  or monthly pay period or such other standard pay period of the Participating Company applicable to the class of Employees of which the Eligible Employee is a part.  
   Period of Service   means, with respect to any Employee, the period of time commencing on the Employee s Employment
Commencement Date and ending on the Employee s Severance from Service Date and, if applicable, the period of time commencing on an Employee s Reemployment Commencement Date and ending on the Employee s subsequent Severance from
Service Date. All service credited under the terms of the Plan in effect prior to the Effective Date shall be considered under the Plan.  
   Period of Severance   means the period of time commencing on the Employee s Severance from Service Date and ending on
the date on which the Employee is again entitled to be credited with an Hour of Service.  
      -15-  

Plan   means The Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan, a profit
sharing plan, as set forth herein.      Plan Year   means each  12-consecutive  month
period that begins on January 1st and ends on the next following December 31st.      Pre-Tax Contributions   means
Pre-Tax Matched Contributions and Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions.      Pre-Tax Matched Contributions   means an amount that
a Participant elects to have deducted on a pre-tax basis from his or her Compensation and contributed to the Plan under a pay reduction election pursuant to Section 3.1.1 or pursuant to Section 3.1(a) of  Exhibit B  (as applicable).
Pre-Tax Matched Contributions are eligible for Matching Contributions.      Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions   means an
amount that a Participant elects to have deducted on a pre-tax basis from his or her Compensation and contributed to the Plan under a pay reduction election pursuant to Section 3.1.1 or pursuant to Section 3.1(a) of  Exhibit B  (as
applicable). Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions are not eligible for Matching Contributions.      Prior Broadband Heritage Matching
Contributions   means matching contributions made under the CCCHI Plan prior to the Effective Date that were not subject to accelerated vesting under the CCCHI Plan as a result of the AT T Broadband Transaction because the Participant
was not employed on such date or that were made after the AT T Broadband Transaction. Such matching contributions are subject to the applicable vesting schedule set forth in the Plan as in effect on December 31, 2009.  
   Prior Company Matching Contributions (Unvested)   means amounts denominated as  Vision Contributions  under the
Plan prior to the Effective Date and matching contributions made pursuant to the Plan prior to January 1, 2001. Such matching contributions are subject to the applicable vesting schedule set forth in the Plan as in effect on December 31,
2009.      Prior Company Matching Contributions (Vested)   means the following amounts: (a) matching contributions made
under the CCCHI Plan prior to the Effective Date that were fully vested in accordance with the change in control vesting provisions of Section 6.3(c) of the CCCHI Plan; (b) amounts credited to the account under the CCCHI Plan denominated
as the United Artists Entertainment Company ESOP Account; (c) matching contributions made under the MediaOne Group 401(k) Savings Plan prior to January 1, 1999; and (d) matching contributions credited to a separate sub-account in the
Plan and attributable to matching contributions under the following plans that were previously merged into the Plan: (1) Jones Intercable, Inc. Profit Sharing\Retirement Savings Plan, (2) Lenfest Group Retirement Plan, and (3) the
tax-qualified defined contribution plans of Greater Media.      Qualified Non-Elective Contributions   means contributions
made pursuant to Section 3.10.4.  
      -16-  

Reemployment Commencement Date   means the first day following a One-Year
Period of Severance on which an Employee is entitled to be credited with an Hour of Service described in Paragraph (a)(1) of the definition of  Hour of Service  in this Article.  
   Required Beginning Date   means:  
 (a) For any Participant who attains Age 70  1   2  and
is not a 5-percent owner (within the meaning of section 416 of the Code) of a Participating Company, April 1 of the calendar year following the later of the calendar year in which he has a Severance from Service Date or the calendar year in
which he attained Age 70  1   2 .    (b) For any
Participant who attains Age 70  1   2  and is a 5-percent owner (within the meaning of section 416 of the Code) of a Participating Company, April 1 of the
calendar year next following the calendar year in which he attains Age 70  1   2 .  
 (c) For any Participant who filed a valid deferral election with the Participating Company before January 1, 1984, and which has not
subsequently been revoked, the date set forth in such election.      Restatement Date   means January 1, 2016.  
   Roth Catch-Up Contribution   means contributions made pursuant to Section 3.1.4 or pursuant to Section 3.1(c) of
 Exhibit B  (as applicable), in each case in lieu of Pre-Tax Catch-Up Contributions.      Roth Contributions   means
Roth Matched Contributions and Roth Unmatched Contributions.      Roth Matched Contributions   means contributions made
pursuant to Section 3.1.4 or pursuant to Section 3.1(c) of  Exhibit B  (as applicable), in each case in lieu of Pre-Tax Matched Contributions. Roth Matched Contributions are eligible for Matching Contributions.  
   Roth Rollover Contributions   means a contribution to the Plan made in accordance with the rules of section 402 of the Code
and pursuant to Section 7.1 of amounts rolled over from a designated Roth contribution account under the 401(k) or 403(b) plan of a former employer.  
   Roth Unmatched Contributions   means contributions made pursuant to Section 3.1.4 or pursuant to Section 3.1(c) of
 Exhibit B  (as applicable), in each case in lieu of Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions. Roth Unmatched Contributions are not eligible for Matching Contributions.  
   Severance from Service Date   means the date, as recorded on the records of a Participating Company or an Affiliated
Company, on which an Employee of such company quits, retires, is discharged, or dies, or, if earlier, the first anniversary of the first day of a period  
      -17-  

during which the Employee remains absent from service with all Participating Companies and Affiliated Companies (with or without pay) for any other reason, except:  
 (a) Solely for purposes of determining whether a One-Year Period of Severance has occurred, if the Employee is absent from work beyond the
first anniversary of the first day of absence by reason of pregnancy, childbirth, or placement in connection with adoption, or for purposes of the care of such Employee s child immediately after birth or placement in connection with adoption,
such Employee s Severance from Service Date shall be the second anniversary of the first day of such absence; or    (b) If the
Employee is absent for military service under leave granted by the Participating Company or Affiliated Company or required by law, the Employee shall not be considered to have a Severance from Service Date, provided the absent Employee returns to
service with the Participating Company or Affiliated Company within 90 days of his release from active military duty or any longer period during which his right to reemployment is protected by law.  
   Spouse   means the person to whom a Participant is legally married. For purposes of determining whether two individuals are
legally married to each other, the applicable law of the jurisdiction in which such marriage took place shall apply. A Spouse shall include an individual of the same sex as the Participant, provided that the Participant and such other individual
were legally married in a state whose laws authorize the marriage of two individuals of the same sex (regardless of whether the Participant and such other individual reside in a jurisdiction that authorizes or recognizes same-sex marriage).  
   Taxable Rollover Contributions   means a contribution to the Plan made in accordance with the rules of section 402 of the
Code and pursuant to Section 7.1 of amounts which will constitute taxable income to the Participant when distributed or withdrawn. Taxable Rollover Contributions shall also include any amount voluntarily transferred by a Participant from the
Storer Communications Pension Plan, or from the tax-qualified defined contribution plans of Adelphia Communications Corporation, Home Team Sports, AT T, MidAtlantic Communications, or Cable Network Services LLC (in which Outdoor Life Network was
a participating employer).      Temporary Employee   means an Employee whose employment is classified by the Participating
Company to which such Employee is employed as  temporary  or  intermittent,  both in accordance with uniformly applied personnel policies;  
   Total Disability   means, with respect to any Participant, the earlier to occur of (a) the Participant qualifying for
Social Security disability benefits or (b) the Participant becoming eligible for and receiving benefits under a long-term disability program sponsored by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company.  
   Trust Agreement   means any agreement and declaration of trust executed under this Plan.  
   Trustee   means the corporate trustee or trustees or one or more individuals collectively appointed and acting under a Trust
Agreement.      Valuation Date   means each day the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading, or such other day as the
Committee shall determine.  
      -18-  

Year of Service   means, for any Employee, a credit used to determine his
vested status under the Plan, as further described in Section 6.2.  
      -19-  

ARTICLE II  
 TRANSITION AND ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE  
 Section 2.1.  Rights Affected and Preservation of Accrued Benefit . Except as provided to the contrary herein, the provisions of
this amended and restated Plan shall apply only to Employees who complete an Hour of Service on or after the Effective Date. The rights of any other individual shall be governed by the Plan as in effect upon his Severance from Service Date, except
to the extent expressly provided in any amendment adopted subsequently thereto. Additional rules regarding service credit are set forth in Article XV.  
 Section 2.2.  Eligibility to Participate .  
 2.2.1. Subject to Section 2.4, each Covered Employee as of the Restatement Date who was eligible to participate in the Plan immediately
prior to the Restatement Date shall, for all purposes of the Plan applicable to that Covered Employee, continue to be an Eligible Employee as of the Effective Date.  
 2.2.2. Subject to Section 2.4, each Covered Employee who was not eligible to participate immediately prior to the Effective Date shall,
for all purposes of the Plan applicable to that Covered Employee, become an Eligible Employee following his completion of a Period of Service of ninety (90) days. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Covered Employee whose Employment Commencement
Date is on or after January 1, 2016 and who is a Temporary Employee shall become an Eligible Employee following his completion of 1,000 Hours of Service during the twelve month period that begins on such Covered Employee s Employment
Commencement Date or during any Plan Year that begins after such Employment Commencement Date.    2.2.3. If an individual is not a Covered
Employee on the date he meets the requirements of Section 2.2.2, he shall become an Eligible Employee as of the first date thereafter on which he is a Covered Employee.  
 2.2.4. If a Covered Employee does not satisfy the requirements of Section 2.2.2 prior to incurring a Severance from Service Date, but is
rehired prior to incurring a One-Year Period of Severance, his prior Period of Service or Hours of Service, as applicable, shall be considered for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Section 2.2.2. If the Covered Employee incurs a  One-Year  Period of Severance, his prior Period of Service or Hours of Service, as applicable, shall not be considered upon a subsequent Reemployment Commencement Date.  
 2.2.5. An Eligible Employee who ceases to be a Covered Employee, due to incurring a Severance from Service Date or otherwise, and who later
becomes a Covered Employee, shall become an Eligible Employee as of the date on which he first again completes an Hour of Service as a Covered Employee.  
      -20-  

Section 2.3.  Election to Make Pre-Tax Contributions .  
 2.3.1.  Election to Make Pre-Tax Contributions . Each Eligible Employee may elect to make Pre-Tax Contributions or Roth Contributions and
become an Active Participant by filing a notice of such election with the Committee in accordance with Section 14.9. Such notice shall authorize the Participating Company to reduce such Eligible Employee s cash remuneration by an amount
determined in accordance with Section 3.1 and to make Pre-Tax Contributions or Roth Contributions on such Eligible Employee s behalf in the amount of such reduction. Such election shall be effective as soon as administratively practicable
following receipt of his election by the Committee.    2.3.2.  Automatic Enrollment . Each Eligible Employee who (i) is employed
by a Participating Company on or after July 1, 2007 (other than an Eligible Employee who commences employment by a Participating Company as the result of the acquisition of the business of such Eligible Employee s employer by a
Participating Company (whether via a merger, stock acquisition or asset acquisition) and (ii) does not elect to make Pre-Tax Contributions or Roth Contributions and become an Active Participant pursuant to Section 2.3 will be automatically
enrolled in the Plan following his completion of the Plan s eligibility requirements, provided that the Eligible Employee does not affirmatively elect to decline to be an Active Participant in the Plan. Such an automatically enrolled Eligible
Employee will be an Active Participant in the Plan as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of the time determined by the Committee for returning the election form which includes the option to elect to decline to be an Active
Participant in the Plan. Covered Employees who are designated by the Committee or its delegate as having been reemployed by a Participating Company following a seventy-five (75) day Period of Severance are considered newly Eligible Employees
for purposes of the automatic enrollment provisions described in this Section 2.3.2. Covered Employees who are designated by the Committee or its delegate as having been reemployed by a Participating Company prior to having incurred a
seventy-five (75) day Period of Severance will be automatically re-enrolled in the Plan at the Pre-Tax Contribution rate in effect for such Employee on his Severance from Service Date.  
 Section 2.4.  Eligibility to Participate   After-Tax Contributions . A Covered Union Employee (Broadband) shall be eligible to
make After-Tax Contributions at the same time that such Employee becomes eligible to make Pre-Tax Contributions in accordance with Section 2.2; provided that, if and when such Employee ceases to be a Covered Union Employee (Broadband), such
Employee shall no longer be eligible to make After-Tax Contributions. Elections to make After-Tax Contributions shall be accomplished in the manner specified in Section 2.3.  
 Section 2.5.  Data . Each Employee shall furnish to the Committee such data as the Committee may consider necessary for the
determination of the Employee s rights and benefits under the Plan and shall otherwise cooperate fully with the Committee in the administration of the Plan.  
 Section 2.6.  Credit for Qualified Military Service . Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, contributions,
benefits and service credit with respect to qualified military service will be provided in accordance with section 414(u) of the Code.  
      -21-  

ARTICLE III  
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PLAN  
 Section 3.1.  Pre-Tax Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions and Roth Contributions .  
 3.1.1. When an Eligible Employee files an election under Section 2.3 to have Pre-Tax Contributions made on his behalf, he shall elect the
percentage by which his Compensation shall be reduced on account of such Pre-Tax Contributions. Subject to Section 3.9, this percentage may be between one percent (1%) and fifty percent (50%) of such Compensation, rounded to the
nearer half percentage (0.5%). An automatically enrolled Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contributions will, unless and until changed or discontinued by the Eligible Employee in accordance with Sections 3.2 or 3.3 and subject to Section 3.10,
be equal to three percent (3%) (or, in the case of an Eligible Employee automatically enrolled prior to January 1, 2013, 2% ) of the Eligible Employee s Compensation in the first Plan Year in which such Eligible Employee is
automatically enrolled in the Plan. The Pre-Tax Contribution percentage of an Eligible Employee hired on or after January 1, 2013 will, unless otherwise elected by the Eligible Employee, increase by one percent (1%), up to a maximum of ten
percent (10%) of the Eligible Employee s Compensation, each subsequent Plan Year beginning on the anniversary occurring in that subsequent Plan Year of the date on which such Eligible Employee was first enrolled in the Plan. The
Participating Company shall contribute an amount equal to such percentage of the Eligible Employee s Compensation to the Fund for credit to the Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account and/or Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution
Account, as applicable, provided that such contributions may be prospectively limited as provided in Section 3.10.    3.1.2. Pre-Tax
Contributions made on behalf of an Eligible Employee under this Plan, together with elective deferrals under any other plan or arrangement maintained by any Participating Company or Affiliated Company, shall not exceed $17,500 (as adjusted in
accordance with section 402(g) of the Code and regulations thereunder) for any calendar year. To the extent necessary to satisfy this limitation for any year:  
 (a) elections under Section 3.1.1 shall be prospectively restricted; and  
 (b) after application of Section 3.1.2(a), the excess Pre-Tax Contributions and excess elective deferrals under any other plan or
arrangement maintained by any Participating Company or Affiliated Company (with earnings thereon, but reduced by any amounts previously distributed under Section 3.10.1 for the year) shall be paid to the Participant on or before the
April 15 first following the calendar year in which such contributions were made.    If the Pre-Tax Contributions plus elective deferrals described
above do not exceed such limitation, but Pre-Tax Contributions, plus the elective deferrals, as defined in section 402(g)(3) of the Code, under any other plan for any Participant exceed such limitation for any calendar year, upon the written request
of the Participant made on or before the March 1 first following such calendar year, the excess, including any earnings attributable thereto, designated by the Participant to be distributed from the Plan shall be paid to the Participant on or
before the April 15 first following such calendar year.  
      -22-  

3.1.3.  Catch-Up Contributions . An Eligible Employee who has attained or will attain Age
50 before the close of any Plan Year shall be eligible to make Catch-Up Contributions during such Plan Year, provided at the time any such Catch-Up Contribution is made such Eligible Employee is deferring at least 4.5% of his Compensation as Pre-Tax
Contributions or Roth Contributions. Catch-Up Contributions shall be expressed as a percentage of Compensation between one percent (1%) and thirty percent (30%) (rounded to the nearer half percentage (0.5%)). Catch-Up Contributions shall
not be taken into account for purposes of the provisions of the Plan implementing the required limitations of sections 402(g) and 415 of the Code. The Plan shall not be treated as failing to satisfy the provisions of the Plan implementing the
requirements of section 401(k)(3), 401(k)(11), 401(m)(12), 410(b) or 416 of the Code, as applicable, by reason of the making of such catch-up contributions. Catch-Up Contributions shall not be matched pursuant to Section 3.5.  
 3.1.4.  Roth Contributions . An Eligible Employee may elect, on a form prescribed by the Committee, to contribute, in lieu of all
or a portion of the Pre-Tax Contributions and/or Catch-Up Contributions the Participant is otherwise eligible to make under the Plan, Roth Contributions and/or Roth Catch-Up Contributions to the Plan. Such Roth Contributions and Roth Catch-Up
Contributions shall be allocated to the Eligible Employee s Roth Matched Contribution Account, Roth Unmatched Contribution Account or Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account, as applicable. Roth Contributions and Roth Catch-Up Contributions shall
be: (a) irrevocably designated as such by the Eligible Employee at the time of the election described in Sections 2.3 and 3.1.3 that is being made in lieu of all or a portion of the Pre-Tax Contribution and/or Catch-Up Contributions the
Eligible Employee is otherwise eligible to make under the Plan; and (b) treated by the Participating Company as includible in the Eligible Employee s income at the time the Participant would have received that amount in cash if the
Eligible Employee had not made an election described in Sections 2.3 or 3.1.3 of the Plan. Unless specifically stated otherwise, Roth Contributions shall be treated as Pre-Tax Contributions for all purposes of the Plan (including, without
limitation, Matching Contributions under Section 3.5) and Roth  Catch-Up  Contributions shall be treated as Catch-Up Contributions for all purposes of the Plan.  
 Section 3.2.  After-Tax Contributions . With respect to Participants who are Covered Union Employees (Broadband), the total amount
of Pre-Tax Contributions and After-Tax Contributions credited to a Participant s Account may not exceed 50% of the Participant s Compensation.  
 Section 3.3.  Change of Percentage Rate . A Participant may, without penalty, change the percentage of Compensation designated
(i) through his automatic enrollment in the Plan or (ii) by him as his contribution rate under Sections 3.1.1, 3.1.3, 3.1.4 and/or 3.2, as applicable, to any percentage permitted by Sections 3.1.1, 3.1.3, 3.1.4 or 3.2, and such percentage
shall remain in effect until so changed. Any such change shall become effective as soon as administratively practicable following receipt of the change by the Committee.  
 Section 3.4.  Discontinuance of Pre-Tax Contributions, Roth Contributions and After-Tax Contributions . A Participant may
discontinue his Pre-Tax Contributions, Roth Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions, Roth Catch-Up  
      -23-  

Contributions or After-Tax Contributions at any time. Such discontinuance shall become effective as soon as administratively practicable following receipt of the discontinuance by the Committee.
   Section 3.5.  Matching Contributions .  
 3.5.1. Subject to Sections 2.2, 3.5.1(c), 3.9 and 3.10, the Participating Company shall contribute to the Fund for each Payroll Period:  
 (a) with respect to each Active Participant (other than an Active Participant who is a Covered Union Employee (Comcast) and a member of Local
Union 827, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and who is employed in Pleasantville, New Jersey or Toms River, New Jersey), an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of such Participant s Pre-Tax Matched Contributions for
such Payroll Period not in excess of four and one-half percent (4  1   2 %) of his Compensation for such Payroll Period; and  
 (b) with respect to each Active Participant who is a Covered Union Employee (Comcast) and who is a member of Local Union 827, International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and who is employed in Pleasantville, New Jersey or Toms River, New Jersey, an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of such Participant s Pre-Tax Matched Contributions for such Payroll Period not in
excess of six percent (6%) of his Compensation for such Payroll Period.    (c) Notwithstanding Section 3.5.1(a) or (b), if the
sum of the Matching Contributions made for an Active Participant on a Payroll Period basis for any Plan Year fails to provide the maximum amount of Matching Contributions to which such Active Participant would be entitled except for the Matching
Contributions being made on a Payroll Period basis for such Plan Year or because of Catch-Up Contributions being re-designated as Pre-Tax Matched Contributions, a Participating Company shall make an additional Matching Contribution for the benefit
of such Participant for such Plan Year in an amount equal to the amount which, when added to the Matching Contributions made pursuant to Section 3.5.1(a) or (b), would have been contributed had the Matching Contribution been based on the amount
of the Participant s annual Pre-Tax Matched Contributions and annual Compensation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum total Matching Contribution for any Plan Year for any Participant shall be $10,000 if such Participant is both
(i) a Highly Compensated Employee (other than a Covered Union Employee (Comcast) or a Covered Union Employee (Broadband))  and  (ii) as of the first day of such Plan Year (or, if later, the applicable Participant s Employment
Commencement Date or Reemployment Commencement Date), eligible to contribute to the Comcast Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan.  
 3.5.2. The Participating Companies  Matching Contribution obligation for a Plan Year shall be offset by the amount, if any, of the sum
of Matching Contributions, Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions and Prior Company Matching Contributions (Unvested) forfeited during such Plan Year by Participants who were Employees of such Participating Company, provided that Matching
Contributions may be prospectively limited as provided in Section 3.10. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the contributions under this Section for any Plan Year shall not cause the total contributions by the Participating Company to exceed the
maximum allowable current deduction under the applicable provisions of the Code.  
      -24-  

Section 3.6.  Comcast Retirement Contributions .  
 3.6.1.  Contribution . With respect to each Plan Year, the Participating Companies may, in the discretion of the Company and subject to
the limitations of Section 3.11 of the Plan, contribute to the Fund, for each Eligible Employee described in Section 3.6.2 below, an additional amount of up to 1% of such Eligible Employee s Base Pay (or, in the case of an Eligible
Employee eligible to receive commission-based compensation, such Eligible Employee s Annual Benefit Base Rate) for the applicable the Plan Year. The determination of whether a Comcast Retirement Contribution will be allocated to Eligible
Employees for a particular Plan Year shall be made by the EVP no later than the date on which such contribution may be declared and remain attributable to such Plan Year.  
 3.6.2.  Eligibility . An Employee is eligible to receive a Comcast Retirement Contribution for a particular Plan Year in accordance with
Section 3.6.1 above if such Employee meets each of the conditions described in (a), (b) and (c) below:    (a) Such
Employee s Employment Commencement Date occurs prior to October 1 st  of the applicable Plan Year;  
 (b) Such Employee is an Employee on the last day of the applicable Plan Year (including an Employee on an approved leave of absence as of
such date); and    (c) Such Employee is not (i) eligible to participate in the Comcast Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (or
any successor Plan), (ii) a Highly Compensated Employee for the applicable Plan Year, (iii) an Eligible Employee with an Employment Commencement Date or Reemployment Commencement Date during the applicable Plan Year whose Annual Rate of
Pay is greater than the annual dollar amount set forth in section 414(q)(1)(B)(i) of the Code for purposes of determining Highly Compensated Employees for the applicable Plan Year, or (iv) an Eligible Employee with an Employment Commencement
Date or Reemployment Commencement Date during the immediately preceding Plan Year whose Annual Rate of Pay for both the immediately preceding Plan Year and the applicable Plan Year is greater than the annual dollar amount set forth in section
414(q)(1)(B)(i) of the Code for purposes of determining Highly Compensated Employees for the applicable Plan Year.    In the event that an Employee is
eligible to receive an allocation of the Comcast Retirement Contribution for a particular Plan Year pursuant to the conditions described above and such Employee is employed by NBCUniversal or one of its subsidiaries as of the last day of the Plan
Year due to a transfer of employment from the Company or one of its subsidiaries (other than NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries) during such Plan Year, such eligible Employee s allocation of the Comcast Retirement Contribution for that Plan Year
will be determined solely with respect to the Base Pay (or Annual Benefit Base Rate, as applicable) received by such Employee for the portion of the Plan Year he or she was employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries (other than NBCUniversal
and its subsidiaries).  
      -25-  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee who is otherwise eligible to receive an allocation of the Comcast
Retirement Contribution for a Plan Year may elect to not receive such allocation provided (i) such Employee has a sincere religious objection to receiving such contribution and (ii) not later than the last day of the Plan Year to which
such contribution relates, such Employee executes a waiver in a form provided by the Committee pursuant to which such Employee elects not to receive an allocation of the Comcast Retirement Contribution and releases the Plan, the Company and their
respective affiliates from any and all claims related to not receiving such allocation.    Section 3.7.  Timing and Deductibility of
Contributions . Participating Company contributions for any Plan Year under this Article shall be made no later than the last date on which amounts so paid may be deducted for Federal income tax purposes for the taxable year of the employer in
which the Plan Year ends. All Participating Company contributions are expressly conditioned upon their deductibility for Federal income tax purposes. Amounts contributed as Pre-Tax Contributions, After-Tax Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions, Roth
Contributions, Roth Catch-Up Contributions, After-Tax Rollover Contributions, Taxable Rollover Contributions, and Roth Rollover Contributions will be remitted to the Trustee as soon as practicable.  
 Section 3.8.  Fund . The contributions deposited by the Participating Company in the Fund in accordance with this Article shall
constitute a fund held for the benefit of Participants and their eligible beneficiaries under and in accordance with this Plan. No part of the principal or income of the Fund shall be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive
benefit of such Participants and their eligible beneficiaries (including necessary administrative costs); provided, that in the case of a contribution made by the Participating Company as a mistake of fact, or for which a tax deduction is
disallowed, in whole or in part, by the Internal Revenue Service, the Participating Company shall be entitled to a refund of said contributions, which must be made within one year after payment of a contribution made as a mistake of fact, or within
one year after disallowance.    Section 3.9.  Limitation on Pre-Tax Contributions and Matching Contributions .  
 3.9.1. For any Plan Year, the Average Actual Deferral Percentage for the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees for the current
Plan Year shall not exceed the greater of:    (a) one hundred  twenty-five  percent (125%) of
the Average Actual Deferral Percentage for all other Early Entry Eligible Employees for the preceding Plan Year; or    (b) the lesser of:
   (1) two hundred percent (200%) of the Average Actual Deferral Percentage for all other Early Entry Eligible Employees for the
preceding Plan Year; or  
      -26-  

(2) two percent (2%) plus the Average Actual Deferral Percentage for all other Early Entry
Eligible Employees for the preceding Plan Year.    3.9.2. For any Plan Year, the Average Contribution Percentage for the Highly Compensated
Early Entry Eligible Employees for the current Plan Year shall not exceed the greater of:    (a) one hundred
 twenty-five  percent (125%) of the Average Contribution Percentage for all other Early Entry Eligible Employees for the preceding Plan Year; or  
 (b) the lesser of:    (1) two
hundred percent (200%) of the Average Contribution Percentage for all other Early Entry Eligible Employees for the preceding Plan Year; or  
 (2) two percent (2%) plus the Average Contribution Percentage for all other Early Entry Eligible Employees for the preceding Plan Year.
   3.9.3. If the Plan and any other plan(s) maintained by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company are treated as a single plan for
purposes of section 401(a)(4) or section 410(b) of the Code, the limitations in Sections 3.9.1 and 3.9.2 shall be applied by treating the Plan and such other plan(s) as a single plan.  
 3.9.4. The application of this Section shall satisfy sections 401(k) and 401(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder and such other
requirements as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.    3.9.5. The test set forth in Section 3.9.1 must be satisfied
separately with respect to (1) Early Entry Eligible Employees who are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement and (2) Early Entry Eligible Employees who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The test set forth in
Section 3.9.2 must be satisfied only with respect to Early Entry Eligible Employees who are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  
 Section 3.10.  Prevention of Violation of Limitation on Pre-Tax Contributions and Matching Contributions . The Committee shall
monitor the level of Participants  Pre-Tax Contributions, Matching Contributions and elective deferrals, employee contributions, and employer matching contributions under any other qualified retirement plan maintained by a Participating Company
or any Affiliated Company to insure against exceeding the limits of Section 3.9. To the extent practicable, the Plan Administrator may prospectively limit (i) some or all of the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees 
Pre-Tax Contributions to reduce the Average Actual Deferral Percentage of the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees to the extent necessary to satisfy Section 3.9.1 and/or (ii) some or all of the Highly Compensated Early Entry
Eligible Employees  Matching Contributions to reduce the Average Contribution Percentage of the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees to the extent necessary to satisfy Section 3.9.2. If the Committee determines after the end
of the Plan Year that the  
      -27-  

limits of Section 3.9 may be or have been exceeded, it shall take the appropriate following action for such Plan Year:  
 3.10.1. (a) The Average Actual Deferral Percentage for the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees shall be reduced to the extent
necessary to satisfy Section 3.9.1.    (b) The reduction shall be accomplished by reducing the maximum Actual Deferral Percentage for
any Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee to an adjusted maximum Actual Deferral Percentage, which shall be the highest Actual Deferral Percentage that would cause one of the tests in Section 3.9.1 to be satisfied, if each Highly
Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee with a higher Actual Deferral Percentage had instead the adjusted maximum Actual Deferral Percentage, reducing the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contributions and elective
deferrals under any other qualified retirement plan maintained by the Participating Company or any Affiliated Company (less any amounts previously distributed under Section 3.1 for the year) in order, beginning with the Highly Compensated Early
Entry Eligible Employee(s) with the highest Actual Deferral Percentage.    (c) Not later than the end of the Plan Year following the close
of the Plan Year for which the Pre-Tax Contributions were made, the excess Pre-Tax Contributions shall be paid to the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees (determined on the basis of the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees
with the largest dollar amount of Pre-Tax Contributions), with earnings attributable thereto (as determined in accordance with applicable Treasury Regulations); provided, however, that for any Participant who is also a participant in any other
qualified retirement plan maintained by the Participating Company or any Affiliated Company under which the Participant makes elective deferrals for such year, the Committee shall coordinate corrective actions under this Plan and such other plan for
the year.    3.10.2. (a) The Average Contribution Percentage for the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees shall be reduced to
the extent necessary to satisfy at least one of the tests in Section 3.9.2.    (b) The reduction shall be accomplished by reducing the
maximum Contribution Percentage for any Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee to an adjusted maximum Contribution Percentage, which shall be the highest Contribution Percentage that would cause one of the tests in Section 3.9.2 to be
satisfied, if each Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee with a higher Contribution Percentage had instead the adjusted maximum Contribution Percentage, reducing, in the following order of priority, the Highly Compensated Early Entry
Eligible Employees  Matching Contributions and employee contributions and employer matching contributions under any other qualified retirement plan maintained by the Participating Company or an Affiliated Company, in order beginning with the
Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee(s) with the highest Contribution Percentage.    (c) Not later than the end of the Plan
Year following the close of the Plan Year for which such contributions were made, the excess Matching Contributions, with  
      -28-  

earnings attributable thereto (as determined in accordance with applicable Treasury Regulations) shall be treated as a forfeiture of the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee s
Matching Contributions for the Plan Year to the extent such contributions are forfeitable (which forfeiture shall be used to reduce future Matching Contributions), or paid to the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee to the extent such
contributions are nonforfeitable; provided that any such forfeiture or payment shall be determined on the basis of the Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employee(s) with the largest dollar amount of Matching Contributions; provided further,
that, for any Participant who is also a participant in any other qualified retirement plan maintained by the Participating Company or any Affiliated Company under which the Participant makes employee contributions or is credited with employer
matching contributions for the year, the Committee shall coordinate corrective actions under this Plan and such other plan for the year.  
 3.10.3. If the Plan and any other plan maintained by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company are treated as a single plan pursuant
to Section 3.9.3, the Committee shall coordinate corrective actions under the Plan and such other plan for the year.    3.10.4. The
Company in its sole discretion may authorize an additional Company contribution for a Plan Year on behalf of the Non-Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees in an amount which the Company determines is necessary to meet one of the two
actual deferral percentage tests or one of the two actual contribution percentage tests for such Plan Year. Such additional contributions shall be allocated in an equitable manner among the Non-Highly Compensated Early Entry Eligible Employees and
the amount allocated to each such Employee shall be treated for all purposes under the Plan as an additional Pre-Tax Contribution by the Company for such Plan Year. Any such contributions shall be allocated to the Qualified Non-Elective Contribution
Account.    Section 3.11.  Maximum Allocation .  
 3.11.1. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall amounts allocated to a Participant s Account under the
Plan exceed the limitations set forth in section 415 of the Code, which are hereby incorporated into the Plan.    3.11.2. If the amounts
otherwise allocable to a Participant s Account under the Plan exceed the limitations set forth in section 415(c) of the Code, then the Plan shall correct such excess in accordance with the Employee Plans Compliance Resolution System (EPCRS) as
set forth in Revenue Procedure 2008-50 or any superseding guidance, including, but not limited to, the preamble of the final regulations governing section 415 of the Code.  
 3.11.3. Effective for Plan Years beginning after July 1, 2007, payments made by the later of
2  1   2  months after severance from employment or the end of the Limitation Year that includes the date of severance from employment are included in Compensation
for the Limitation Year if, absent a severance from employment, such payments (i) would have been paid to the Participant and (ii) would have been considered Compensation while the Participant continued in employment with the Participating
Company.  
      -29-  

3.11.4. For avoidance of doubt, the limitation described in this Section 3.11 shall be
applied on aggregate basis to Eligible Employees who have transferred employment between the NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries and the Company and its subsidiaries during applicable Limitation Year.  
 Section 3.12.  Safe Harbor Status . Other than with respect to the Plan as it applies to Early Entry Eligible Employees and Covered
Union Employees (Broadband), the Plan intends to satisfy section 401(k)(3)(a)(ii) of the Code by satisfying the matching contribution requirement of section 401(k)(12)(B) of the Code and the notice requirement of section 401(k)(12)(D) of the Code.
   Section 3.13.  Distribution of Excess Contributions . Any distribution of excess contributions made pursuant to this
Section 3 will include earnings attributable to such contributions as required by, and as determined in accordance with, applicable Regulations of the Department of the Treasury.  
      -30-  

ARTICLE IV  
 PARTICIPANTS  ACCOUNTS  
 Section 4.1.  Accounts . All contributions and earnings thereon may be invested in one commingled Fund for the benefit of all
Participants. However, in order that the interest of each Participant may be accurately determined and computed, separate Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant and each Participant s Accounts shall be made up of sub-accounts
reflecting his investment elections pursuant to Section 11.5. These Accounts shall represent the Participant s individual interest in the Fund. All contributions shall be credited to Participants  Accounts as set forth in Article III
or  Exhibit B  (as applicable).    Section 4.2.  Valuation . The value of each Investment Medium in the Fund shall be
computed by the Trustee as of the close of business on each Valuation Date on the basis of the fair market value of the assets of the Fund.  
 Section 4.3.  Apportionment of Gain or Loss . The value of each Investment Medium in the Fund, as computed pursuant to
Section 4.2, shall be compared with the value of such Investment Medium in the Fund as of the preceding Valuation Date. Any difference in the value, not including contributions or distributions made since the preceding Valuation Date, shall be
the net increase or decrease of such Investment Medium in the Fund, and such amount shall be ratably apportioned by the Trustee on its books, among the Participants  Accounts which are invested in such Investment Medium at the current Valuation
Date.    Section 4.4.  Accounting for Allocations .  
 4.4.1.  In General . The Committee shall establish or provide for the establishment of accounting procedures for the purpose of making
the allocations, valuations and adjustments to Participants  Accounts provided for in this Article. From time to time such procedures may be modified for the purpose of achieving equitable and
 non-discriminatory  allocations among the Accounts of Participants in accordance with the general concepts of the Plan and the provisions of this Article.  
 4.4.2.  Accounting and Other Procedures Regarding Company Stock and Investment Stock .  
 (a) Company Stock required for purposes of the Plan shall either be transferred or sold to the Trustee by the Company, or if not so
transferred or sold shall be acquired by the Trustee on the market.    (b) As of each Valuation Date, all amounts to be invested in Company
Stock shall be allocated to Participants  Accounts as additional shares in accordance with this Section 4.4.2(b). First, the Committee shall determine the number of shares to be allocated under the Plan as of such Valuation Date. Second,
the number of shares to be allocated to each Participant s Account shall be equal to the total number of shares to be allocated under the Plan as of such Valuation Date multiplied by the ratio of the sum of the items listed below for each
Participant entitled to share in such allocation that are to be invested in Company Stock to the sum of such items for all such Participants. The items referenced in the preceding sentence  
      -31-  

are (i) all Pre-Tax Contributions and Catch-Up Contributions, (ii) all Roth Contributions and Roth Catch-Up Contributions, (iii) all After-Tax Contributions, (iv) all Matching
Contributions, Prior Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions, (v) all Comcast Retirement Contributions, (vi) all NBCU Retirement Contributions, (vii) all Taxable Rollover Contributions, After-Tax Rollover Contributions and Roth
Rollover Contributions, (viii) all repayments of loans pursuant to Article IX of the Plan, (ix) funds that were to be invested in Company Stock as of the preceding Valuation Date but were not and (x) income earned with respect to such
funds.    (c) Shares of Company Stock and Investment Stock shall be converted to cash for purposes of distributions, withdrawals, and loans
in accordance with the batch trading guidelines established by the Committee.    (d) Shares of Company Stock shall be allocated to
Participants  Accounts as results of elections to reallocate the investment of funds held in Participants  Accounts to the Investment Medium that holds Company Stock pursuant to the real time trading guidelines established by agreement
between the Company and the Trustee. Shares of Company Stock and Investment Stock shall be converted to cash for purposes of elections to reallocate the investment of amounts held in an Investment Medium that holds Company Stock or Investment Stock.
   (e) Pursuant to Section 11.5.8, (i) effective on or about January 1, 2016, no participant will be permitted to make new
investments (whether by means of investment directions for new contributions, investment re-allocation of assets held in Participant Accounts, or otherwise) in shares of Company Stock; (ii) effective on or about December 11, 2015, all
shares of Investment Stock were re-capitalized as Company Stock; and (iii) effective beginning on or about January 1, 2017, all shares of Company Stock shall be liquidated and the proceeds re-invested in an appropriate alternative
investment.  
      -32-  

ARTICLE V  
 DISTRIBUTION    Section 5.1.
 General . The interest of each Participant in the Fund shall be distributed in the manner, in the amount, and at the time provided in this Article, except as provided in Article VIII and except in the event of the termination of the Plan. The
provisions of this Article shall be construed in accordance with section 401(a)(9) of the Code and regulations thereunder, including the incidental death benefit requirements of section 401(a)(9)(G) of the Code.  
 Section 5.2.  Separation from Service . A Participant who incurs a Severance from Service Date for reasons other than death or Total
Disability shall have his nonforfeitable interest in his Account paid to him or applied for his benefit in accordance with the provisions of this Article.  
 Section 5.3.  Death . If a Participant dies before his Benefit Commencement Date, or if the Participant dies after his Benefit
Commencement Date and before his entire nonforfeitable interest in his Account has been paid to him, his remaining nonforfeitable interest in his Account shall be paid to, or applied for the benefit of, his beneficiary in accordance with the
provisions of this Article. In the case of a Participant who dies on or after January 1, 2007 while performing Qualified Military Service (as defined in Code  414(u)), the survivors of such Participant shall be entitled to any benefit,
including but not limited to any acceleration of vesting, that would be provided under the Plan had the Participant resumed employment with his employer and then terminated employment on account of his death.  
 Section 5.4.  Total Disability . If a Participant who is an Employee suffers a Total Disability and has a Severance from Service
Date due to his Total Disability, his Account shall be paid to him or applied for his benefit in accordance with the provisions of this Article following the determination of his Total Disability and his Severance from Service Date.  
 Section 5.5.  Valuation for Distribution . For the purposes of paying the amounts to be distributed to a Participant or his
beneficiaries under the provisions of this Article, the value of the Fund and the amount of the Participant s nonforfeitable interest shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Article IV as of the Valuation Date coincident with
or immediately preceding the date of any payment under this Article. Such amount shall be adjusted to take into account any additional contributions which have been or are to be allocated to the Participant s Account since that Valuation Date,
and any distributions or withdrawals made since that date.    Section 5.6.  Timing of Distribution . Any Participant who has a
Severance from Service Date for any reason other than death shall be entitled to receive his nonforfeitable interest in his Account, pursuant to the following rules:  
 5.6.1. If the Participant s nonforfeitable interest in his Account exceeds $5,000, his Benefit Commencement Date shall be the earliest
practicable date following the Valuation Date coincident with or next following 30 days after his Severance from Service Date, except that, if the Participant does not consent to such distribution, distribution of his benefits shall commence on any
later date elected by the Participant, that is not later than his Required  
      -33-  

Beginning Date, at which time his nonforfeitable interest shall commence to be paid to him. A Participant s election to receive payment prior to his Required Beginning Date may be made no
earlier than 180 days prior to the Benefit Commencement Date elected by the Participant.    5.6.2. If a Participant s nonforfeitable
interest in his Account is not greater than $1,000, his Benefit Commencement Date shall be the earliest practicable date following the Valuation Date coincident with or next following the first day of the first calendar quarter that begins after his
Severance from Service Date and, provided the participant does not affirmatively elect to have the distribution of Account paid directly to an eligible retirement plan in a direct rollover, his Account will be distributed in a cash lump sum. If a
Participant s nonforfeitable interest in his Account is greater than $1,000 but not in excess of $5,000, and if the participant does not elect to have such distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the Participant
in a direct rollover or to receive the distribution directly, then the Participant s vested Account shall be distributed in a direct rollover to an individual retirement plan designated by the Committee. The preceding sentence shall not apply
to alternate payees (under qualified domestic relations orders, as defined in section 414(p) of the Code), surviving Spouses or beneficiaries.  
 5.6.3. This Section shall apply to all Participants, including Participants who had a Severance from Service Date or ceased to be Covered
Employees prior to the Effective Date.    Section 5.7.  Mode of Distribution of Retirement or Disability Benefits .  
 5.7.1. Except as provided to the contrary in this Article, a Participant may elect in writing to have his nonforfeitable interest in his
Account paid to him or applied for his benefit in accordance with any of the following modes of payment:    (a) in the case of a
Participant whose nonforfeitable interest in his Account exceeds $5,000, approximately equal annual, quarterly or monthly installments over a period designated by the Participant. The payment period shall be designated by the Participant by electing
a specific number of years, quarters or months. The Participant may designate the dollar amount to be received in each payment or may elect to have each payment recalculated such that each payment will equal the balance in his Account as of the date
of distribution divided by the number of scheduled payments remaining;  provided, however , that the amounts payable to a Participant each year shall at least equal the amount necessary to satisfy the requirements of section 401(a)(9) of the
Code. A Participant may elect, in writing and according to uniform procedures established by the Committee, at any time following the date he or she commences benefit payments under this Section 5.7.1(a) to change the number of any remaining
installment payments and/or the dollar amount paid to such Participant in each remaining installment payment.    (b) a single sum payment
in cash, except that, with respect to distributions made prior to the liquidation of all Company Stock and Investment Stock held in the Plan in accordance with Section 11.5.8, a Participant may elect to receive the portion of his Account
invested in Company Stock and/or Investment Stock in the form of shares.  
      -34-  

(c) in the case of a Participant who was a participant in the CCCHI Plan, a Participant may
withdraw up to ninety-five percent (95%) of his Account, in increments of not less than $500. A surviving beneficiary of such a Participant may also make withdrawal in accordance with this Section 5.7.1(c).  
 (d) the Participant may elect to withdraw such portion (which may be all) of his remaining account balance as he may designate from time to
time. Payment to the Participant of the designated amount shall be made in cash as soon as practicable after the election.    5.7.2. If a
Participant fails to make a valid election under this Section in accordance with the rules described in Section 5.8, the value of his Account shall be distributed to him as a single sum payment.  
 5.7.3. If a Participant elects to have his nonforfeitable interest in his Account paid to him or applied for his benefit in accordance with
either Section 5.7.1(a) or (d), such Participant may elect, in writing and according to uniform procedures established by the Committee, at any time following the date he or she commences benefit payments to change his or her form of payment to
any other form permitted under the terms of this Section 5.7.    5.7.4. If a Participant elects to receive a distribution of less than
100% of his Account in the Plan, such Participant may, in accordance with uniform procedures established by the Committee, designate the contribution source sub-Accounts from which such distribution will be made.  
 Section 5.8.  Rules for Election of Optional Mode of Retirement or Disability Benefit . A Participant may elect an optional mode of
payment under Section 5.7 by filing a notice with the Committee in accordance with Section 14.9. A Participant may elect an optional mode of payment at any time during the period provided in Section 5.6.2.  
 Section 5.9.  Death Benefits .  
 5.9.1. (a) A beneficiary entitled to benefits under Section 5.3 upon the death of a Participant prior to his Benefit Commencement Date
shall receive a single sum payment equal to the Participant s nonforfeitable interest in his Account.    (b) If a Participant dies
after his Benefit Commencement Date while in receipt of installment payments described in Section 5.7.1(a), and before his entire nonforfeitable interest in his Account has been paid to him, his beneficiary may elect in writing to have the
remaining nonforfeitable interest in the Participant s Account paid in accordance with either of the following modes of payment:  
 (1) a single sum payment in cash, except that, with respect to distributions made prior to the liquidation of all Company Stock and
Investment Stock held in the Plan in accordance with Section 11.5.8, a beneficiary may elect to receive the portion of the Account invested in Company Stock and/or Investment Stock in the form of shares; or  
      -35-  

(2) approximately equal annual installments over the remainder of the period over which the
Participant had elected to receive installment payments (with such remainder to be determined in accordance with applicable regulations under the Code); provided, however, that this form of payment shall not be available to a beneficiary that is not
an individual. A beneficiary may elect the mode of payment under this Section at any time prior to his Benefit Commencement Date. Such election shall be on a form prescribed by the Committee. In the event that a beneficiary fails to make a valid
election under this Section, the value of the Participant s Account will be distributed as a single sum payment.    5.9.2. Payment of
death benefits payable under Section 5.3 shall commence as soon as practicable following the death of the Participant.  
 Section 5.10.  Explanations to Participants . The Committee shall provide to each Participant no less than 30 days and no more than
180 days before his Benefit Commencement Date a written explanation of:    5.10.1. the terms and conditions of each optional mode of
payment, including information explaining the relative values of each mode of benefit, in accordance with applicable governmental regulations under section 401(a)(11) of the Code;  
 5.10.2. the Participant s right to elect an optional mode of payment and the effect of such an election;  
 5.10.3. the rights of the Participant s Spouse with respect to the Participant s election of certain optional modes of payment; and
   5.10.4. the Participant s right to revoke an election to receive an optional mode of payment and the effect of such revocation.
   Section 5.11.  Beneficiary Designation .  
 5.11.1. Except as provided in this Section 5.11, a Participant may designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries who shall receive, on or
after his death, his interest in the Fund, provided that the designation of a beneficiary under a joint and survivor annuity shall be fixed and may not be changed on or after the date on which benefit payments commence. Such designation shall be
made by executing and filing with the Committee a written instrument in such form as may be prescribed by the Committee for that purpose. Except as provided in this Section 5.11, the Participant may also revoke or change, at any time and from
time to time, any beneficiary designations previously made. Such revocations and/or changes shall be made by executing and filing with the Committee a written instrument in such form as may be prescribed by the Committee for that purpose. If a
Participant names a trust as beneficiary, a change in the identity of the trustees or in the instrument governing such trust shall not be deemed a change in beneficiary.  
 5.11.2. No designation, revocation, or change of beneficiaries shall be valid and effective unless and until filed with the Committee.  
      -36-  

5.11.3. A Participant who does not establish to the satisfaction of the Committee that he has no
Spouse may not designate someone other than his Spouse to be his beneficiary under Section 5.3 unless:    (a) (1) such Spouse (or the
Spouse s legal guardian if the Spouse is legally incompetent) executes a written instrument whereby such Spouse consents not to receive such benefit and consents either:  
 (i) to the specific beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant; or  
 (ii) to the Participant s right to designate any beneficiary without further consent by the Spouse;  
 (2) such instrument acknowledges the effect of the election to which the Spouse s consent is being given; and  
 (3) such instrument is witnessed by a Plan representative or notary public;  
 (b) the Participant:    (1)
establishes to the satisfaction of the Committee that his Spouse cannot be located; or    (2) furnishes a court order to the Committee
establishing that the Participant is legally separated or has been abandoned (within the meaning of local law), unless a qualified domestic relations order pertaining to such Participant provides that the Spouse s consent must be obtained; or
   (c) the Spouse has previously given consent in accordance with this Section and consented to the Participant s right to designate
any beneficiary without further consent by the Spouse.    The consent of a Spouse in accordance with this Section 5.11.3 shall not be effective with
respect to other spouses of the Participant prior to the Participant s Benefit Commencement Date, and an election to which Section 5.11.3(b) applies shall become void if the circumstances causing the consent of the Spouse not to be
required no longer exist prior to the Participant s Benefit Commencement Date.    5.11.4. If a Participant has no beneficiary under
Section 5.11.1 or Section 5.11.3, if the Participant s beneficiary(ies) predecease the Participant, or if the beneficiary(ies) cannot be located by the Committee, the interest of the deceased Participant shall be paid to the
Participant s surviving Spouse, or if no Spouse survives the Participant, to the personal representative of the Participant s estate.  
 Section 5.12.  Recalculation of Life Expectancy . If a Participant s Account is payable over the life expectancy of the
Participant and/or his Spouse and/or another beneficiary, the  
      -37-  

determination of whether such life expectancy shall be recalculated, in accordance with regulations issued under section 401(a)(9) of the Code, shall be made as follows:  
 5.12.1. If the Account is payable over the life expectancy of the Participant or the joint and survivor life expectancy of the Participant
and his Spouse, the Participant shall elect, on a form supplied by the Committee, whether or not such life expectancy shall be recalculated.  
 5.12.2. If the Account is payable over the life expectancy of the Participant s Spouse, such Spouse shall elect, on a form supplied by
the Committee, whether or not such life expectancy will be recalculated.    5.12.3. If the Account is payable over the joint and survivor
life expectancy of the Participant and a beneficiary other than the Participant s Spouse, the Participant shall elect, on a form supplied by the Committee, whether or not the Participant s own life expectancy shall be recalculated. The
life expectancy of the beneficiary shall not be recalculated after the Benefit Commencement Date.    5.12.4. If the Account is payable over
the life expectancy of a beneficiary other than the Participant s Spouse, such life expectancy shall not be recalculated after the Benefit Commencement Date.  
 5.12.5. If a Participant or a Participant s Spouse fails to make an election under this Section, his life expectancy shall not be
recalculated after his Benefit Commencement Date.    Section 5.13.  Transfer of Account to Other Plan .  
 5.13.1. (a) Except to the extent otherwise provided by section 401(a)(31) of the Code and regulations thereunder, a Participant or beneficiary
entitled to receive a distribution from the Plan, either pursuant to this Article or pursuant to Article VIII, may direct the Committee to have the Trustee transfer the amount to be distributed directly to:  
 (1) an individual retirement account described in section 408(a) of the Code,  
 (2) a Roth individual retirement account described in section 408A of the Code,  
 (3) an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b) of the Code (other than an endowment contract),  
 (4) a qualified retirement plan described in section 401(a) of the Code, the terms of which permit the acceptance of rollover contributions,
   (5) an annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code, or  
      -38-  

(6) an annuity contract described in section 403(b) of the Code and an eligible plan under
section 457(b) of the Code which is maintained by a state, political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state and which agrees to separately account for amounts transferred into such
plan from this Plan.    (b) Non-Spouse beneficiary rollover right.  
 (1) For distributions after December 31, 2009, a non-Spouse beneficiary who is a  designated beneficiary  under section
401(a)(9)(E) of the Code and the regulations thereunder, by a direct rollover, may rollover all or any portion of his or her distribution to an individual retirement account which the beneficiary establishes for purposes of receiving the
distribution. In order to be able to rollover the distribution, the distribution otherwise must satisfy the requirements for an eligible rollover distribution as described in the Plan.  
 (2) If the Participant s named beneficiary is a trust, the Plan may make a direct rollover to an individual retirement account on behalf
of the trust, provided the trust satisfies the requirements to be a designated beneficiary within the meaning of section   401(a)(9)(E) of the Code.  
 (3) A non-Spouse beneficiary may not rollover an amount which is a required minimum distribution, as determined under applicable Treasury
regulations and other Revenue Service guidance. If the Participant dies before his or her required beginning date and the non-Spouse beneficiary rolls over to an individual retirement account the maximum amount eligible for rollover, the beneficiary
may elect to use either the 5-year rule or the life expectancy rule, pursuant to Treas. Reg.  1.401(a)(9)-3, A-4(c), in determining the required minimum distributions from the individual retirement account that receives the non-Spouse
beneficiary s distribution.    5.13.2. The Participant or beneficiary must specify the name of the plan or account to which the
Participant or beneficiary wishes to have the amount transferred, on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Committee.    5.13.3.
Section 5.13.1 shall not apply to the following distributions:    (a) except as provided in Section 5.13.3(f), any distribution
of After-Tax Contributions;    (b) any distribution which is made pursuant to the Participant s election of installments over either
(1) a period of 10 years or more, or (2) a period equal to the life or life expectancy of the Participant or the joint lives or life expectancy of the Participant and his beneficiary;  
 (c) that portion of any distribution after the Participant s Required Beginning Date that is required to be distributed to the
Participant by the minimum distribution rules of section 401(a)(9) of the Code;  
      -39-  

(d) any amount that is distributed on account of hardship; or  
 (e) such other distributions as may be exempted by applicable statute or regulation from the requirements of section 401(a)(31) of the Code.
   (f) A portion of a distribution shall not fail to be eligible for rollover merely because the portion consists of after-tax employee
contributions which are not includible in gross income. However, such portion may be transferred only to an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408(a) or (b) of the Code, to a qualified plan described in section 401(a)
or 403(a) of the Code, or to a 403(b) plan that agrees to separately account for amounts so transferred, including separately accounting for the portion of such distribution which is includible in gross income and the portion of such distribution
which is not so includible.    Section 5.14.  Section 401(a)(9) . Required minimum distributions shall be made in accordance
with section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations thereunder, as provided in Schedule A attached hereto.  
      -40-  

ARTICLE VI  
 VESTING    Section 6.1.
 Nonforfeitable Amounts . A Participant shall have a 100% nonforfeitable interest at all times in the following Accounts: (1) After-Tax Matched Contribution Account, (2) After-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account, (3) Catch-Up
Contribution Account, (4) Matching Contribution Account, (5) After-Tax Rollover Account, (6) Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account, (7) Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account, (8) Prior Company Matching Contribution Account
(Vested), (9) DC Adder Contribution Account, (10) QNEC Account, (11) Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account, (12) Roth Matched Contribution Account, (13) Roth Rollover Account, (14) Roth Unmatched Contribution Account, and
(15) Taxable Rollover Account.    Section 6.2.  Vesting of Comcast Retirement Contributions . Each Participant shall become
vested in the following portion of his Comcast Retirement Contribution Account:      
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall have a 100% nonforfeitable interest in his Comcast Retirement Contribution
Account upon his attainment of his Normal Retirement Date, his death or his Total Disability, provided the Participant is an Active Participant at the time of the occurrence of such event.  
 A Participant shall have such nonforfeitable interest in any Accounts not referenced in either Section 6.1 of 6.2 as determined pursuant to the rules of
the Plan as in effect on December 31, 2009.    Section 6.3.  Years of Service for Vesting .  
 6.3.1. For the purposes of this Article, an Employee shall be credited with Years of Service equal to the number of whole years in all of the
Employee s Periods of Service. To determine the number of whole years in all of an Employee s Periods of Service, non-contiguous periods shall be aggregated.  
 6.3.2. Years of Service shall be calculated on the basis that 30 days equals a completed month or one-twelfth (1/12) of a year and
twelve completed months equal one year.    6.3.3. If a former Employee is reemployed by a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company
before he incurs a One-Year Period of Severance and if such Employee s Period of Severance commenced with a quit, discharge or retirement, the Employee shall be credited with Years of Service for the Period of Severance.  
      -41-  

6.3.4. If an Employee severs from service by reason of a quit, discharge, or retirement during
an absence from service for 12 months or less for any reason other than a quit, discharge or retirement, and if he then performs an Hour of Service within 12 months of the date on which he was first absent from service, he shall be credited with
Years of Service for his Period of Severance.    6.3.5. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, an Employee shall not be
credited with Years of Service for the same period twice.    6.3.6.  CIC Development Corp . Effective December 14, 1999, any
Active Participant who transfers employment directly from a Participating Company to CIC Development Corp., shall have his service with CIC Development Corp. credited for purposes of vesting under the Plan for the period commencing with the
effective date of such individual s direct transfer and ending on the earlier of (a) the date such individual is fully vested in his Matching Contribution and Vision Accounts (as applicable) or (b) the date such individual requests a
distribution of any portion of his Matching Contribution or Vision Accounts.    Section 6.4.  Breaks in Service and Loss of
Service . An Employee s Years of Service shall be canceled if he incurs a One-Year Period of Severance before his Normal Retirement Date and at a time when he has no Accounts under the Plan.  
 Section 6.5.  Restoration of Service . The Years of Service of an Employee whose Years of Service have been canceled pursuant to
Section 6.4 shall be restored to his credit if he thereafter completes an Hour of Service at a time when the number of his consecutive One-Year Periods of Severance is less than the greater of (a) the number of Years of Service to his
credit when the first such One-Year Period of Severance occurred, or (b) five.    Section 6.6.  Forfeitures and Restoration of
Forfeited Amounts upon Reemployment .    6.6.1. If a Participant who has had a Severance from Service Date does not thereafter complete
an Hour of Service before the end of the Plan Year in which occurs the earlier of:    (a) the date on which he receives or is deemed to
receive a distribution of his entire nonforfeitable interest in his Account, which is less than 100%; or    (b) the date on which he incurs
his fifth consecutive One-Year Period of Severance,    his Broadband Heritage Matching Contribution Account, his Prior Company Matching Contribution Account
(Unvested), his Comcast Retirement Contribution Account and his NBCU Retirement Contribution Account shall be closed, and the forfeitable amount held therein shall be forfeited. For purposes of this Section 6.6.1, a Participant who has a
Severance from Service Date at a time when his nonforfeitable interest in the Plan is zero shall be deemed to have received a distribution described in Section 6.6.1(a) on such Severance from Service Date.  
      -42-  

6.6.2. Amounts forfeited from a Participant s Broadband Heritage Matching Contribution
Account, Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Unvested) and Comcast Retirement Contribution Account under Section 6.6.1 shall be used to reduce future Matching Contributions, Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions, and/or Comcast
Retirement Contributions.    6.6.3. If a Participant who has received (or is deemed to have received) a distribution described in
Section 6.6.1(a), whereby any part of his Account has been forfeited, again becomes a Covered Employee prior to incurring five consecutive One-Year Periods of Severance, the amount so forfeited shall be restored to his new Broadband Heritage
Matching Contribution Account, Prior Company Matching Contribution Account, Comcast Retirement Contribution Account and/or NBCU Retirement Contribution Account, if, and only if, he repays the full amount of such distribution (if any) prior to the
earlier of (1) the fifth anniversary of the date on which he subsequently becomes a Covered Employee or (2) the first date the Participant incurs five consecutive One-Year Periods of Severance following the date of the distribution;
provided, however, that a Participant described in the preceding sentence who is deemed to receive a distribution of his entire nonforfeitable interest shall be deemed to repay such distribution on the date he again becomes a Covered Employee. Any
amounts repaid pursuant to this Section 6.6.3 shall be credited to the Participant s After-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account. Amounts restored under this Section shall be charged against the following amounts in the following order of
priority: (A) forfeitures for the Plan Year and (B) Company contributions for the Plan Year. If the foregoing amounts are insufficient, the Participating Company by whom such Participant is reemployed shall make any additional contribution
necessary to accomplish the restoration.    6.6.4. If a Participant has received a distribution under the Plan, other than a distribution
of his entire nonforfeitable interest in his Account upon his Severance from Service Date, at a time when he has less than a 100% nonforfeitable interest in his entire Account and prior to the date on which he incurs his fifth consecutive One-Year
Period of Severance, his nonforfeitable interest in his Account at all times prior to the date on which he incurs his fifth consecutive One-Year Period of Severance, shall be the difference between:  
 (a) the amount his nonforfeitable interest would have been if he had not received the distribution; and  
 (b) the amount to which the distribution would have increased or decreased if it had remained in the Fund. Immediately after the Participant
has five consecutive One-Year Periods of Severance, his nonforfeitable interest determined under this Section, if in excess of zero, shall be established as a separate account, and he shall at all times have a nonforfeitable interest therein. If the
Participant is later reemployed as a Covered Employee, any allocations to him shall be credited to a new account, and his nonforfeitable interest therein shall be determined under Section 6.1.  
 6.6.5. If a Participant has had five consecutive One-Year Periods of Severance and again becomes a Covered Employee, the amount forfeited
under Section 6.6.1 shall not be restored to his new Account under any circumstances.  
      -43-  

ARTICLE VII  
 ROLLOVER CONTRIBUTIONS  
 Section 7.1.  Rollover Contributions .  
 7.1.1. Subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 7.1.2, a Covered Employee may transfer or have transferred directly to the Fund,
from any qualified retirement plan of a former employer, all or a portion of his interest in the distributing plan. In addition, a Covered Employee who has established an individual retirement account to hold distributions received from qualified
retirement plans of former employers may transfer all of the assets of such individual retirement account to the Fund.    7.1.2. The
Trustee shall not accept a distribution from any other qualified retirement plan or from an individual retirement account unless the following conditions are met:  
 (a) (1) the distribution being transferred must come directly from the fiduciary of the plan of the former employer, or  
 (2) it must come from the Covered Employee within 60 days after the Covered Employee receives a distribution from such other qualified
retirement plan or individual retirement account and must comply with the provisions of section 402(c), 403(a)(4), 408(d)(3) or 457(f)(16) of the Code, whichever applies;  
 (b) distributions from a plan for a  self-employed  person shall not be transferred to this Plan,
unless the transfer is directly to the Fund from the funding agent of the distributing plan;    (c) the interest being transferred shall
not include assets from any plan to the extent that the Committee determines that the transfer of such interest (i) would impose upon this Plan requirements as to form of distribution that would not otherwise apply hereunder, or (ii) would
otherwise result in the elimination of Code section 411(d)(6) protected benefits, or (iii) would cause the Plan to be a direct or indirect transferee of a plan to which the joint and survivor annuity requirements of sections 401(a)(11) and 417
of the Code apply;    (d) the interest being transferred shall not contain nondeductible contributions made to the distributing plan by the
Covered Employee unless the transfer to the Fund is directly from the funding agent of the distributing plan; and    (e) subject to
Section 7.3, the interest being transferred shall be in the form of cash.    Section 7.2.  Vesting and Distribution of Rollover
Account .    7.2.1. The distributions transferred by or for a Covered Employee from another qualified retirement plan or from an
individual retirement account shall be credited to the Covered Employee s After-Tax Rollover Account, Roth Rollover Account and/or Taxable Rollover Account, as applicable. A Covered Employee shall be fully vested at all times in his After-Tax
Rollover Account, Roth Rollover Account and Taxable Rollover Account.  
      -44-  

7.2.2. A Covered Employee s After-Tax Rollover Account, Roth Rollover Account and Taxable
Rollover Account shall be distributed as otherwise provided under the Plan.    Section 7.3.  Additional Rollover Amounts . If an
individual becomes a Participant as a result of a corporate transaction and elects to roll over a benefit from the prior employer s tax-qualified defined contribution plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit the rollover of
outstanding loan balances; provided that each individual who becomes a Participant pursuant to that corporate transaction is afforded the same opportunity to roll over outstanding loan balances to the Plan; provided further that such determination
by the Committee shall be made on an objective non-discriminatory basis. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit the rollover of an outstanding loan balance from the NBCU CAP by an Eligible Employee who transfers from a position at
NBCUniversal that is not eligible to participate in the Plan to a position that is eligible to participate in the Plan; provided that such determination by the Committee shall be made on an objective non-discriminatory basis.  
      -45-  

ARTICLE VIII  
 WITHDRAWALS    Section 8.1.
 Withdrawals Not Subject to Section 401(k) Restrictions . A Participant who is an active Employee and has not attained Age 59  1   2  may withdraw, in
accordance with rules prescribed by the Committee and uniformly applied, up to the total value of the following sub-Accounts:    8.1.1.
After-Tax Matched Contribution Account; provided that, if a Participant withdraws any After-Tax Matched Contributions credited in the Plan Year of withdrawal or the two preceding Plan Years, the Participant shall be suspended from participation for
three months from the date of the withdrawal.    8.1.2. After-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account;  
 8.1.3. After-Tax Rollover Contribution Account;  
 8.1.4. Roth Rollover Account;  
 8.1.5. Taxable Rollover Contribution Account;  
 8.1.6. Broadband Heritage Matching Contribution Account, provided that Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions and Prior Broadband Heritage
Matching Contributions are not eligible for withdrawal if they were credited in the Plan Year of withdrawal or the two preceding Plan Years; and  
 8.1.7. Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Vested), provided that contributions are not eligible for withdrawal if they were
credited in the Plan Year of withdrawal or the two preceding Plan Years.    Section 8.2.  Withdrawals Subject to Section 401(k)
Restrictions .    8.2.1. In addition to the withdrawals permitted under Section 8.1, a Participant who is an active Employee may
withdraw, under the rules set forth in Sections 8.2.2 through 8.2.5 and such other rules as may be prescribed by the Committee and uniformly applied, the following amounts:  
 (a) his Broadband Heritage Matching Contribution Account, to the extent that Broadband Heritage Matching Contributions and Prior Broadband
Heritage Matching Contributions were made in the Plan Year of withdrawal or the two preceding Plan Years;    (b) that portion of his Prior
Company Matching Contribution Account (Vested) consisting of matching contributions made under the CCCHI Plan prior to the Effective Date that were fully vested in accordance with the change of control vesting provisions of Section 6.3(c) of
the CCCHI Plan and that were made in the Plan Year of withdrawal or the two preceding Plan Years;  
      -46-  

(c) the nonforfeitable portion of his Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Unvested);
   (d) his Catch-Up Contribution Account;  
 (e) his Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account (consisting of all amounts credited as of December 31, 1988 plus the sum of his Pre-Tax
Matched Contributions made after December 31, 1988);    (f) his Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account (consisting of all amounts
credited as of December 31, 1988 plus the sum of his Pre-Tax Matched Contributions made after December 31, 1988)    (g) his Roth
Catch-Up Contribution Account;    (h) his Roth Matched Contribution Account; plus  
 (i) his Roth Unmatched Contribution Account.  
 8.2.2. A withdrawal under Section 8.2.1 shall be permitted only if the Committee finds that:  
 (a) it is made on account of the Participant s immediate and heavy financial need (as defined in Section 8.2.3); and  
 (b) it is necessary (as defined in Section 8.2.4) to satisfy such immediate and heavy financial need.  
 8.2.3. A withdrawal under Section 8.2.1 will be deemed to be on account of an immediate and heavy financial need if the Participant
requests such withdrawal on account of:    (a) expenses for medical care described in section 213(d) of the Code and (i) previously
incurred by the Participant, his Spouse, any of the Participant s dependents (as defined in section 152 of the Code), or effective January 1, 2010, the Participant s primary beneficiary, or (ii) necessary for such individuals to
obtain such medical care;    (b) costs directly related to the purchase (excluding mortgage payments) of a principal residence of the
Participant;    (c) the payment of tuition and related educational fees for the next 12 months of
 post-secondary  education for the Participant, his Spouse, children, dependents (as defined in section 152 of the Code) or effective January 1, 2010, the Participant s primary beneficiary;  
 (d) the need to prevent the eviction of the Participant from his principal residence or foreclosure on the mortgage of his principal
residence;  
      -47-  

(e) for Covered Union Employees (Broadband) only, payment for extensive home repairs or
renovations related to fire, natural disaster or other similar unforeseeable event; extraordinary legal expenses; or funeral expenses for members of immediate family; or  
 (f) notwithstanding Section 8.2.3(e) above, effective June 1, 2006, payments for burial or funeral expenses for the
Participant s deceased parent, Spouse, children or dependents (as defined in Code Section 152 without regard to Code Section 152(d)(1)(B)) or effective January 1, 2010, the Participant s primary beneficiary, and expenses for
the repair of damage to a Participant s principal residence that would qualify for the casualty deduction under Code Section 165 without regard to whether the loss exceeds 10% of the Participant s adjusted gross income; or  
 (g) such other circumstances or events as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate.  
 Note that for purposes of this Section 8.2.3,  primary beneficiary  means an individual who is named as a beneficiary under
the Plan and has an unconditional right to all or a portion of the Participant s account balance under the Plan upon the Participant s death.  
 8.2.4. A withdrawal under Section 8.2.2(a) shall be deemed to be necessary if:  
 (a) the amount of the withdrawal does not exceed the amount of the Participant s immediate and heavy financial need, including any
amounts necessary to pay any federal, state or local income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the withdrawal;    (b)
the Participant has obtained all currently permissible distributions (other than hardship distributions) and  non-taxable  loans, if any, under this and all other plans maintained by the Participating Company
and all Affiliated Companies; and    (c) the Participant agrees in writing to be bound by the rules of Section 8.2.5.  
 8.2.5. If a Participant withdraws any amount from his Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account, Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account, Catch-Up
Contribution Account, Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account, Roth Matched Contribution Account or Roth Unmatched Contribution Account pursuant to Section 8.2.1, or withdraws any elective deferrals under any other qualified retirement plan
maintained by the Participating Company or any Affiliated Company, which other plan conditions such withdrawal upon the Participant s being subject to rules similar to those stated in this Section 8.2.5 and Section 8.2.4, such
Participant may not make Pre-Tax Contributions (and, in the case of a Covered Union Employee (Broadband), After-Tax Contributions), Catch-Up Contributions, Roth Contributions or Roth Catch-Up Contributions under this Plan or employee contributions
(other than mandatory contributions under a defined benefit plan) or elective deferrals under any other qualified or non-qualified plan of deferred compensation (which does not include any health or welfare plan, including a health or welfare plan
that is part of a cafeteria plan described in section 125 of the  
      -48-  

Code) or any qualified or non-qualified employee stock purchase plan maintained by the Participating Company or an Affiliated Company for a period of 6 months commencing on the date of the
withdrawal (12 months for a Participant who is a Covered Union Employee (Broadband));  provided, however :    (a) a Participant who,
immediately prior to the Effective Date, was a participant in the CCCHI Plan, was not an  Eligible Union Employee  as defined under the CCCHI Plan, and was serving a twelve-month suspension under the CCCHI Plan in connection with a
hardship withdrawal taken in 2002, shall have the suspension period lifted effective September 15, 2003; and    (b) a Participant who
is a Covered Union Employee (Broadband) for only a portion of a Plan Year and, thereafter, remains an Eligible Employee (other than a Covered Union Employee (Broadband)), shall have the twelve-month suspension period lifted on the latest of
(1) September 15, 2003, (2) completion of a six-month suspension period, or (3) decertification of such Covered Union Employee s union.  
 8.2.6. If a Participant withdraws any elective deferrals under any other qualified retirement plan maintained by the Participating Company or
any Affiliated Company, which other plan conditions such withdrawal upon the Participant s being subject to rules similar to those stated in this Section 8.2, such Participant may not make Pre-Tax Contributions under this Plan or employee
contributions (other than mandatory contributions under a defined benefit plan) or elective deferrals under any other qualified or non-qualified plan of deferred compensation (which does not include any health or welfare plan, including a health or
welfare plan that is part of a cafeteria plan described in section 125 of the Code) maintained by the Participating Company or an Affiliated Company for the time period specified in Section 8.2.5.  
 Any Eligible Employee whose Pre-Tax Contributions (and, in the case of a Covered Union Employee (Broadband), After-Tax Contributions), Catch-Up Contributions,
Roth Contributions and/or Roth Catch-Up Contributions are suspended pursuant to Section 8.2.5 or 8.2.6 will, upon the expiration of the required suspension period, automatically resume such contributions at the contribution rates in effect for
such Employee immediately prior to the commencement of the required suspension period.    Section 8.3.  Withdrawals On and After
Attainment of Age 59  1   2  . Upon his attainment of Age 59  1   2 , a
Participant who is an Active Participant may withdraw, in accordance with rules prescribed by the Committee and uniformly applied, less amounts previously withdrawn therefrom, by submitting his request to the Committee in accordance with
Section 14.9, up to the vested portion in the following sub-Accounts:    8.3.1. After-Tax Matched Contribution Account;  
 8.3.2. After-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account;  
 8.3.3. After-Tax Rollover Account;  
 8.3.4. Taxable Rollover Account;  
      -49-  

8.3.5. Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Vested);  
 8.3.6. Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Unvested);  
 8.3.7. Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account;  
 8.3.8. Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account;  
 8.3.9. Matching Contribution Account;  
 8.3.10. Broadband Heritage Matching Contribution Account;  
 8.3.11. DC Adder Contribution Account;  
 8.3.12. Comcast Retirement Contributions Account;  
 8.3.13. NBCU Retirement Contribution Account;  
 8.3.14. Catch-Up Contribution Account;  
 8.3.15. Roth Matched Contribution Account;  
 8.3.16. Roth Unmatched Contribution Account;  
 8.3.17. Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account; and  
 8.3.18. Roth Rollover Account.  
 Section 8.4.  HEART Act Distributions . Pursuant to section 414(u)(12)(B) of the Code, an Active Participant who is performing
active duty service in the uniformed services (as defined in chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code) for a period of more than 30 days shall, solely for purposes of section 401(k)(2)(B)(i)(I), be treated as having had a severance from employment
with the Participating Company and may withdraw, in accordance with rules prescribed by the Committee and uniformly applied, less amounts previously withdrawn therefrom, by submitting his request in accordance with Section 14.9 to the
Committee, up to the vested portion in the following sub-Accounts:    8.4.1. After-Tax Rollover Account;  
 8.4.2. Taxable Rollover Account;  
 8.4.3. Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Vested);  
 8.4.4. Prior Company Matching Contribution Account (Unvested);  
 8.4.5. Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account;  
 8.4.6. Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account;  
      -50-  

8.4.7. Matching Contribution Account;  
 8.4.8. Broadband Heritage Matching Contribution Account;  
 8.4.9. DC Adder Contribution Account;  
 8.4.10. Comcast Retirement Contribution Account;  
 8.4.11. NBCU Retirement Contribution Account;  
 8.4.12. Catch-Up Contribution Account;  
 8.4.13. Roth Matched Contribution Account;  
 8.4.14. Roth Unmatched Contribution Account;  
 8.4.15. Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account; and  
 8.4.16. Roth Rollover Account.  
 Section 8.5.  Amount and Payment of Withdrawals . The amount of any withdrawal will be determined on the basis of the value of the
Participant s Account valued as of the Valuation Date coincident with or immediately preceding the date of the withdrawal. Any withdrawal requested under this Section shall be paid as soon as practicable following the Committee s
determination that the requested withdrawal complies with the terms and conditions set forth in this Section. Withdrawals shall be made in a single sum payment in cash, except that, with respect to withdrawals made prior to the liquidation of all
Company Stock and Investment Stock held in the Plan in accordance with Section 11.5.8, a Participant making a withdrawal pursuant to Section 8.1 or 8.3 may elect to receive all or a portion of the withdrawal in the form of shares of
Company Stock and/or Investment Stock to the extent that the portion of the Account that is the subject of the withdrawal is invested in Company Stock and/or Investment Stock.  
 Section 8.6.  Withdrawals Not Subject to Replacement . A Participant may not replace any portion of his sub-Accounts withdrawn under
this Plan.    Section 8.7.  Pledged Amounts . No amount that has been pledged as security for a loan under Article IX may be
withdrawn under this Article.    Section 8.8.  Investment Medium to be Charged with Withdrawal . Any withdrawal by a Participant
under this Article shall be charged against the Investment Media in which such Participant s Accounts are invested in such priority as shall be established by the Committee.  
 Section 8.9.  Withdrawal by Source.  If a Participant elects to receive a withdrawal under this Article VIII of less than 100% of
the amount available in his applicable sub-Accounts in the Plan, such Participant may, in accordance with uniform procedures established by the Committee, designate the contribution source sub-Accounts from which such withdrawal will be made,
subject to the limitations of the applicable form of withdrawal as set forth in this Article VIII.  
      -51-  

ARTICLE IX  
 LOANS TO PARTICIPANTS  
 Section 9.1.  Loan Application . Each Participant who is an Employee of a Participating Company may apply for a loan from the Plan.
All applications shall be made to the Committee on forms which it prescribes, and the Committee shall rule upon such applications in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner in accordance with the rules and guidelines established in this Article. In
addition to Participants actively employed with a Participating Company, any Participant on a paid or unpaid leave of absence from a Participating Company shall be eligible to apply for a loan from the Plan pursuant to this Article IX.  
 Section 9.2.  Loan Approval .  
 9.2.1. No application for a loan shall be approved for any Participant unless at least fifteen (15) days have elapsed since the date he
has repaid in full any prior loan from the Plan.    9.2.2. The Committee shall have the right to reject a loan application on the basis of
a Participant s credit worthiness or such other factors as would be considered in a normal commercial setting by an entity in the business of making loans and as the Committee determines necessary to safeguard the Fund.  
 Section 9.3.  Amount of Loan .  
 9.3.1. Generally, a Participant shall not be permitted to have more than one loan outstanding at any time from this Plan; however, individuals
who become Participants as a result of a corporate transaction and who have more than one loan transferred from a prior employer s plan in connection with such transaction, may continue both loans but may not take a new loan from the Plan until
all outstanding loans are paid in full. The minimum amount of any loan shall be $500. The amount of any loan must be an even multiple of $100, provided that loans for uneven amounts shall be permitted solely to accommodate loans to former employees
of a business acquired by a Participating Company in connection with the commencement of such individual s eligibility to participate in the Plan, provided that such rule shall be applied on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.  
 9.3.2. The amount of any loan, when added to the amount of a Participant s outstanding loans under all other plans qualified under
section 401(a) of the Code which are sponsored by the Participating Company or any Affiliated Company shall not exceed the lesser of:  
 (a) $50,000, reduced by the excess (if any) of:  
 (1) the Participant s highest outstanding balance of loans during the  one-year  period ending on
the day before the date on which such loan is made to the Participant, over  
      -52-  

(2) the outstanding balance of loans made to the Participant on the date such loan is made to
the Participant; or    (b) fifty percent (50%) of the value of the Participant s nonforfeitable Account, determined as of the
Valuation Date immediately preceding the date on which the loan application is received by the Committee.    Section 9.4.  Terms of
Loan .    9.4.1. The interest rate on loans shall be: (a) determined by the Committee, (b) at least commensurate with rates
charged for similar loans by entities in the business of making loans, and (c) adjusted from time to time as circumstances warrant. Security for each loan granted pursuant to this Article shall be, to the extent necessary, the currently
unpledged portion of the Participant s Account. In no event shall more than fifty percent (50%) of the Participant s vested Account as of the date the loan is made be used as security for the loan. In its sole discretion, the
Committee may require such additional security as it deems necessary.    9.4.2. Each loan shall be evidenced by the Participant s
execution of a personal demand note on such form as shall be supplied by the Committee. Each such note shall specify that, to the extent repayment is not demanded sooner, repayment shall be made in installments over a period of not less than 6 nor
more than 60 months (or not less than 60 months and not more than 360 months if the proceeds of the loan are used to purchase the Participant s principal residence) from the date on which the loan is distributed. All loans from the Plan shall
be  non-renewable.  Each note shall also specify the interest rate as determined by the Committee at the time the loan is approved.  
 9.4.3. All loans shall be repaid in approximately equal installments (not less frequently than quarterly) through payroll deductions or in
such other manner as the Committee may determine, including, without limitation, coupon repayment in the event the Committee determines that a Participant has incurred a Severance from Service Date or in the event a Participant is on an unpaid leave
of absence. In addition, a Participant who is a Covered Union Employee (Broadband) on his Severance from Service Date may repay through coupon repayment following his Severance from Service Date. A Participant may repay the outstanding balance of
any loan in one lump sum at any time by notifying the Committee of his intent to do so and by forwarding to the Committee payment in full of the then outstanding balance, plus interest accrued to the date of payment. The amount of principal and
interest repaid by a Participant shall be credited to a Participant s Account as each repayment is made.    9.4.4. Loan repayments
shall be suspended under this Plan as permitted under section 414(u) of the Code. In such cases, (1) if the loan is for a period of less than 60 months, the period of repayments shall be extended for the period necessary to permit repayment, or
(2) otherwise, the loan shall be re-amortized over its remaining term;  provided, however , that the period of repayment for any loan shall not exceed a total of 60 months, unless an extension is permitted in accordance with section 72(p)
of the Code and the regulations thereunder.  
      -53-  

9.4.5. If, and only if:  
 (a) the Participant dies;  
 (b) the Participant (other than a Participant who continues to be a party in interest) has a Severance from Service Date;  
 (c) the loan is not repaid by the time the note matures including any extensions pursuant to Section 9.4.4;  
 (d) the Participant attempts to revoke any payroll deduction authorization for repayment of the loan without the consent of the Committee;
   (e) the Participant fails to pay any installment of the loan when due and the Committee elects to treat such failure as default; or  
 (f) any other event occurs which the Committee, in its sole discretion, believes may jeopardize the repayment of the loan;  
 before a loan is repaid in full, the unpaid balance thereof, with interest due thereon, shall become immediately due and payable. The Participant (or his
beneficiary, in the event of the Participant s death) may satisfy the loan by paying the outstanding balance of the loan within such time as may be specified in the note which period shall not extend more than 30 days from a Severance from
Service Date. If the loan and interest are not repaid within the time specified, the Committee shall satisfy the indebtedness from the amount of the Participant s vested interest in his Account as provided in Section 9.5 before making any
payments otherwise due hereunder to the Participant or his beneficiary.    Section 9.5.  Enforcement .  
 9.5.1. The Committee shall give written notice to the Participant (or his beneficiary in the event of the Participant s death) of an
event of default described in Section 9.4.5(d). If the loan and interest are not paid within the time period specified in the notice, the amount of the Participant s vested interest in his Account, to the extent such Account is security
for the loan, shall be reduced by the amount of the unpaid balance of the loan, with interest due thereon, and the Participant s indebtedness shall thereupon be discharged to the extent of the reduction.  
 9.5.2. In addition, if the value of the Participant s total vested interest in his Account pledged as security for the loan is
insufficient to discharge fully the Participant s indebtedness, the Participant s Account shall be used to reduce the Participant s indebtedness at such time as the Participant is entitled to a distribution under Article V or a
withdrawal under Article VIII, and any remaining amounts in his Account shall be used to reduce the Participant s indebtedness at such time as the Participant has a Severance from Service Date. Such action shall not operate as a waiver of the
rights of the Company, the Committee, the Trustee, or the Plan under applicable law.  
      -54-  

9.5.3. The Committee also shall be entitled to take any and all other actions necessary and
appropriate to foreclose upon any property other than the Participant s Account pledged as security for the loan or to otherwise enforce collection of the outstanding balance of the loan.  
 Section 9.6.  Additional Rules . The Committee may establish additional rules relating to Participant loans under the Plan, which
rules shall be applied on a uniform and non-discriminatory basis.  
      -55-  

ARTICLE X  
 ADMINISTRATION  
 Section 10.1.  Committee . The Company s Executive Vice President with supervisory responsibility for the Company s Human
Resources Department ( EVP ) shall appoint at least three (3) persons to serve as the Committee. The EVP may, but is not required to, appoint himself or herself to serve on the Committee and to act as Chairperson of such Committee.
The Committee shall be the Administrator and the  named fiduciary  of the Plan, as defined in section 402(a)(2) of ERISA. Each member of the Committee may, but need not be, a director, officer or Employee of a Participating Company and
each shall serve until his or her successor is appointed in like manner. Any member of the Committee may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the EVP prior to the effective date of such resignation. In addition, if a member of the
Committee is an Employee at the time of his or her appointment, he or she will automatically cease to be a member of the Committee when his or her employment with a Participating Company terminates. The EVP may remove any member of the Committee by
written action of the EVP prior to the effective date of such removal. In the event a member of the Committee dies or is removed (automatically or by the EVP), the EVP shall appoint a successor member if necessary to assure that at least three
persons are serving as members of the Committee. Until such time as such successor member  or members  appointment is effective, the Committee shall continue to act with full power until the vacancy is filled.  
 Section 10.2.  Duties and Powers of Committee .  
 10.2.1. The Committee shall have the general responsibility for the administration of the Plan and for carrying out its provisions. In
addition to the duties and powers described elsewhere hereunder, the Committee shall have the discretion and authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan.  
 10.2.2. The Committee shall have all other duties and powers necessary or desirable to administer the Plan, including, but not limited to,
the following:    (a) to communicate the terms of the Plan to Participants and beneficiaries;  
 (b) to prescribe procedures and related forms (which may be electronic in nature) to be followed by Participants and beneficiaries, including
forms and procedures for making elections and contributions under the Plan;    (c) to receive from Participants and beneficiaries such
information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan;    (d) to keep records related to the Plan, including any
other information required by ERISA or the Code;    (e) to appoint, discharge and periodically monitor the performance of third party
administrators, insurers, service providers, other agents, consultants, accountants and attorneys in the administration of the Plan;  
      -56-  

(f) to determine whether any domestic relations order received by the Plan is a qualified
domestic relations order as provided in section 414(p) of the Code;    (g) to prepare and file any reports or returns with respect to the
Plan required by the Code, ERISA or any other law;    (h) to correct errors and make equitable adjustments for mistakes made in the
administration of the Plan;    (i) to issue rules and regulations necessary for the proper conduct and administration of the Plan and to
change, alter, or amend such rules and regulations;    (j) to determine all questions arising in the administration of the Plan, to the
extent the determination is not the responsibility of a third party administrator, insurer or some other entity;    (k) to propose and
accept settlements of claims involving the Plan;    (l) to direct the Trustee to pay benefits and Plan expenses properly chargeable to the
Plan; and    (m) such other duties or powers provided in the Plan or necessary to administer the Plan.  
 10.2.3. The Committee shall have exclusive authority and discretion to manage and control the assets of the Plan, including, but not limited
to the following    (a) establish the Plan s overall investment policy, including asset allocation, investment policy statement or
investment guidelines;    (b) appoint and remove a Trustee or Trustees with respect to a portion of or all of the assets of the Trust;  
 (c) direct such Trustee(s) with respect to the investment and management of the Plan s assets, including any voting rights for any
securities held by the Trustee;    (d) direct the Trustee to pay investment-related expenses properly chargeable to the Plan, including
Trustee expenses;    (e) enter into a trust agreement with such Trustee(s) on behalf of the Company, and approve any amendments to any such
trust agreement, including single-client, common and collective trust arrangements;    (f) enter into insurance contracts and arrangements,
including contracts for participation in single-client or pooled separate accounts to facilitate the investment of plan assets; and  
      -57-  

(g) appoint, monitor and remove one or more investment manager(s), as defined in section 3(38)
of ERISA, to manage any portion of the Trust or an insurance company single-client or pooled separate account, including the exercise of any voting rights of any securities managed by the investment manager.  
 10.2.4. The Committee shall have complete discretion to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan, make findings of fact, correct
errors, and supply omissions. All decisions and interpretations of the Committee made pursuant to the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons and may not be overturned unless found by a court to be arbitrary and capricious. The
Committee shall have the powers necessary or desirable to carry out these responsibilities, including, but not limited to, the following:  
 (a) to prescribe procedures and related forms (which may be electronic in nature) to be followed by Participants and beneficiaries filing
claims for benefits under the Plan;    (b) to receive from Participants and beneficiaries such information as shall be necessary for the
proper determination of benefits payable under the Plan;    (c) to keep records related to claims for benefits filed and paid under the
Plan;    (d) to determine and enforce any limits on benefit elections hereunder;  
 (e) to correct errors and make equitable adjustments for mistakes made in the payment or nonpayment of benefits under the Plan, specifically,
and without limitation, to recover erroneous overpayments made by the Plan to a Participant or beneficiary, in whatever manner the Committee deems appropriate, including suspensions or recoupment of, or offsets against, future payments, including
benefit payments or wages, due that Participant, dependent or beneficiary;    (f) to determine questions relating to coverage and
participation under the Plan and the rights of Participants or beneficiaries to the extent the determination is not the responsibility of a third party administrator, insurer or some other entity;  
 (g) to propose and accept settlements and offsets of claims, overpayments and other disputes involving claims for benefits under the Plan;
   (h) to compute the amount and kind of benefits payable to Participants and beneficiaries, to the extent such determination is not the
responsibility of a third party administrator, insurer, or some other entity; and    (i) to direct the Trustee to pay benefits and any Plan
expenses properly chargeable to the Plan that are related to claims for benefits.    10.2.5. The Committee shall be deemed to have
delegated its responsibilities for determining benefits and eligibility for benefits to a third party  
      -58-  

administrator, insurer or other fiduciary where such person has been appointed by the Committee to make such determinations. In such case, such other person shall have the duties and powers as
the Committee as set forth above, including the complete discretion to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan.  
 Section 10.3.  Functioning of Committee .  
 10.3.1. The Committee shall meet on a periodic, as-needed basis and shall enact such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary and proper
to carry out its responsibilities. The Committee shall periodically report to the EVP concerning the discharge of its responsibilities.  
 10.3.2. The EVP shall designate one member, which may be the EVP, to be the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be responsible for conducting
Committee meetings. The Committee will keep regular records of all meetings and decisions. Any act which the Plan authorizes or requires the Committee to do may be done by a vote of those persons serving as members of the Committee at a meeting at
which a quorum is present or recorded in writing without a meeting. A quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Committee shall consist of a majority of the members of the Committee then in office. Actions at a meeting of the
Committee at which a quorum is present shall be taken by a majority of those members in attendance. The Committee may act in writing without a meeting provided such action has the written concurrence of a majority of the members of the Committee
then serving. It shall have the same effect for all purposes as if assented to by all of the members in office at that time.  
 Section 10.4.  Allocation and Delegation of Duties . The Committee shall have the authority to:  
 10.4.1. allocate, from time-to-time, by a written instrument filed in its records, all or any part of its responsibilities under the Plan to
one or more of its members, including a subcommittee, as may be deemed advisable, and in the same manner to revoke such allocation of responsibilities. In the exercise of such allocated responsibilities, any action of the member or subcommittee to
whom responsibilities are allocated shall have the same force and effect for all purposes hereunder as if such action had been taken by the Committee. The Committee shall not be liable for any acts or omissions of such member or subcommittee. The
member or subcommittee to whom responsibilities have been allocated shall periodically report to the Committee concerning the discharge of the allocated responsibilities.  
 10.4.2. delegate, from time-to-time, by a written instrument filed in its records, all or any part of its responsibilities under the Plan to
such person or persons as the Committee may deem advisable (and may authorize such person to delegate such responsibilities to such other person or persons as the Committee shall authorize) and in the same manner to revoke any such delegation of
responsibilities. Any action of the delegate in the exercise of such delegated responsibilities shall have the same force and effect for all purposes hereunder as if such action had been taken by the Committee. The Committee shall not be liable for
any acts or omissions of any such delegate. The delegate shall periodically report to Committee concerning the discharge of the delegated responsibilities.  
      -59-  

Section 10.5.  Plan Expenses . All fees and expenses incurred in connection with the
operation and administration of the Plan, including, but not limited to, Committee, legal, accounting, actuarial, investment, Trustee, management, and administrative fees and expenses may be paid out of the Trust or any other Plan asset to the
extent that it is legally permissible for these fees and expenses to be so paid. A Participating Company may, but is not required, to pay such fees and expenses directly. A Participating Company may also advance amounts properly payable by the Plan
or Trust and then obtain reimbursement from the Plan or Trust for these advances.    Section 10.6.  Information to be Supplied by a
Participating Company . Each Participating Company shall provide the Committee or its delegates with such information as they shall from time-to-time need or reasonably request in the discharge of its duties. The Committee may rely conclusively
on the information provided.    Section 10.7.  Disputes .  
 10.7.1. If the Committee denies, in whole or in part, a claim for benefits by a Participant or his beneficiary, the Committee shall furnish
notice of the denial to the claimant, setting forth:    (a) the specific reasons for the denial;  
 (b) specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based;  
 (c) a description of any additional information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such information is
necessary; and    (d) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the claimant wishes to submit his claim for review.  
 Such notice shall be forwarded to the claimant within 90 days of the Committee s receipt of the claim; provided, however, that in special circumstances
the Committee may extend the response period for up to an additional 90 days, in which event it shall notify the claimant in writing of the extension, and shall specify the reason or reasons for the extension.  
 10.7.2. Within 60 days of receipt of a notice of claim denial, a claimant or his duly authorized representative may petition the Committee in
writing for a full and fair review of the denial. The claimant or his duly authorized representative shall have the opportunity to review pertinent documents and to submit issues and comments in writing to the Committee. The Committee shall review
the denial and shall communicate its decision and the reasons therefor to the claimant in writing within 60 days of receipt of the petition; provided, however, that in special circumstances the Committee may extend the response period for up to an
additional 60 days, in which event it shall notify the claimant in writing prior to the commencement of the extension. The appeals procedure set forth in this Section 10.7 shall be the exclusive means for contesting a decision denying benefits
under the Plan.  
      -60-  

10.7.3.  Exhaustion and Limitations Period . Claimants must exhaust the procedures
described in Section 10.7 before taking action in any other forum regarding a claim for benefits under the Plan. Any suit or legal action initiated by a claimant under the Plan must be brought by the claimant no later than one (1) year
following a final decision on the claim for benefits under these claims procedures. The one (1)-year statute of limitations on suits for benefits shall apply in any forum where a claimant initiates such suit or legal action. If a civil action is not
filed within this period, the claimant s benefit claim will be deemed permanently waived and abandoned, and the claimant will be precluded from reasserting it.  
 Section 10.8.  Indemnification . Each member (or former member) of the Committee, and any other person who is an Employee or
director of a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company (or a former employee or director of a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company) shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and with respect to all damages,
losses, obligations, liabilities, liens, deficiencies, costs and expenses, including without limitation, reasonable attorney s fees and other costs incident to any suit, action, investigation, claim or proceedings to which he may be a party by
reason of his performance of any functions and duties under the Plan, except in relation to matters as to which he shall be held liable for an act of gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of his duties. The foregoing right to
indemnification shall be in addition to such other rights as the Committee member (or former member) or other person may enjoy as a matter of law or by reason of insurance coverage of any kind. Rights granted hereunder shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of any rights to indemnification to which the Committee member (or former member) or other person may be entitled pursuant to the  by-laws  of the Participating Company.  
      -61-  

ARTICLE XI  
 THE FUND    Section 11.1.
 Designation of Trustee . The Committee shall name and designate a Trustee and shall enter into a Trust Agreement. The Committee shall have the power to amend the Trust Agreement, remove the Trustee, and designate a successor Trustee, as
provided in the Trust Agreement. All of the assets of the Plan shall be held by the Trustee for use in accordance with the Plan.  
 Section 11.2.  Exclusive Benefit . Prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities under the Plan in the event of termination of the
Plan, no part of the corpus or income of the Fund shall be used for or diverted to purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of Participants and their beneficiaries except as expressly provided in this Plan and in the Trust Agreement.  
 Section 11.3.  No Interest in Fund . No person shall have any interest in or right to any part of the assets or income of the Fund,
except to the extent expressly provided in this Plan and in the Trust Agreement.    Section 11.4.  Trustee . Except as otherwise
provided in Section 11.5.8, the Trustee shall be the named fiduciary with respect to management and control of Plan assets held by it and shall have exclusive and sole responsibility for the custody and investment thereof in accordance with the
Trust Agreement.    Section 11.5.  Investments .  
 11.5.1. Except as provided in Section 11.5.5, the Trustee shall invest all contributions that are paid to it and income thereon in such
Investment Media as each Participant may select in accordance with this Section. Prior to January 1, 2016, the Investment Media made available to Participants shall include Investment Media solely invested in Company Stock (except to the extent
that cash or a cash equivalent is necessary to provide liquidity to comply with Participant investment direction). Such investments acquired in the manner prescribed by the Plan shall be held by or for the Trustee.  
 11.5.2. Except as provided in Sections 11.5.5 through 11.5.8, a Participant shall select one or more of the Investment Media in which
his Accounts shall be invested, and the percentage thereof that shall be invested in each Investment Medium selected. In the event a Participant fails to make an election pursuant to this Section, amounts allocated to his Account shall be invested
in such Investment Medium or Investment Media as determined by the Committee. In the event a Participant fails to make an election pursuant to this Section with respect to amounts allocated to his Account pursuant to his automatic enrollment in the
Plan, such amounts allocated to his Account shall be invested in the Investment Media as determined by the Committee. A Participant may amend such selection by prior notice to the Committee, effective as of such dates determined by the Committee, by
giving prior notice to the Committee. Such amendments will be subject to the other requirements which may be imposed by the Committee or the applicable Investment Medium.  
      -62-  

11.5.3. Subject to Sections 11.5.7 and 11.5.8, a Participant may transfer, effective as of such
dates determined by the Committee, such portion of the value of his interest in any Investment Medium to another Investment Medium, as may be permitted by the Committee.  
 11.5.4. The amounts contributed by all Participants to each Investment Medium shall be commingled for investment purposes.  
 11.5.5. The Trustee may hold assets of the Fund and make distributions therefrom in the form of cash without liability for interest, if for
administrative purposes it becomes necessary or practical to do so.    11.5.6. The Committee may limit the right of a Participant
(a) to increase or decrease his contribution to a particular Investment Medium, (b) to transfer amounts to or from a particular Investment Medium, or (c) to transfer amounts between particular Investment Media, if such limitation is
required under the terms establishing an Investment Medium or to facilitate the merger of any other plan with and into this Plan, or the transfer or rollover of benefits into this Plan.  
 11.5.7. Prior to the AT T Broadband Transaction, individuals who were Participants in the Plan prior to the Effective Date could elect to
invest all or a portion of their Accounts in Investment Stock. Effective after the AT T Broadband Transaction, Investment Stock is no longer available for new investments, and, except as provided in this Article, Participants may invest in
Company Stock instead. Subject to Sections 11.5.5, 11.5.6 and 11.5.8, all or a portion of the value of a Participant s interest in Investment Stock may be transferred to a different Investment Medium, including Company Stock, at the election of
such Participant; however, a Participant may not transfer a portion of the value of his interest in any Investment Medium to Investment Stock.  
 11.5.8. Effective January 1, 2016, Company Stock is no longer available for new investments under the Plan. Effective beginning on or
about January 1, 2017, (i) Company Stock and Investment Stock shall cease to be an Investment Medium under the Plan and (ii) all shares of Company Stock and Investment Stock held in the Plan shall be liquidated and the proceeds
re-invested in an appropriate alternative investment to be determined by the Independent Fiduciary (as defined below). Beginning on January 1, 2016, all or a portion of the value of a Participant s interest in Company Stock may be
transferred to a different Investment Medium at the election of such Participant; however, a Participant may not transfer a portion of the value of his interest in any other Investment Medium to Company Stock and may not direct the investment of new
Plan contributions in Company Stock. As soon as administratively practicable, the Committee shall appoint an independent fiduciary (the  Independent Fiduciary ) to manage the Company Stock and Investment Stock held in the Plan, including
managing the freeze and liquidation of the Company Stock and Investment Stock, as provided for in this section. In such capacity, the Independent Fiduciary shall be the Plan s  named fiduciary  with respect to its investment in
Company Stock and Investment Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective on or about December 11, 2015 Investment Stock ceased to be an Investment Medium under the Plan and all shares of Investment Stock held in the Plan were re-capitalized
as Company Stock.  
      -63-  

11.5.9. To the extent that dividends in the form of cash, stock or other securities are
allocated to Participant Accounts as a result of Company Stock or Investment Stock held in such Accounts, the Independent Fiduciary will, as soon as administratively practicable following the date such dividend is allocated to Participant Accounts,
liquidate such dividends and re-invest the proceeds in the form of Company Stock.  
      -64-  

ARTICLE XII  
 AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN  
 Section 12.1.  Power of Amendment and Termination .  
 12.1.1. It is the intention of each Participating Company that this Plan will be permanent. However, each Participating Company reserves the
right to terminate its participation in this Plan at any time by action of its board of directors or other governing body. Furthermore, the Company reserves the power to amend or terminate the Plan at any time and to any extent by action of the
Board of Directors.    12.1.2. In addition,  
 (a) the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may approve any amendment to the Plan; and  
 (b) the EVP may approve any amendment to the Plan:  
 (i) that is required by law or necessary or appropriate to maintain the Plan as a plan meeting the requirements of Code section 401(a),
retroactively if necessary or appropriate;    (ii) that is necessary to make clarifying changes or to correct a drafting error;  
 (iii) to designate as a Participating Company, any organization subject to the adoption of the Plan by action of such organization s
board of directors or other governing body, provided that as a result of such designation, the number of individuals reasonably expected to become eligible to participate in the Plan does not exceed 1,000;  
 (iv) to exclude from status as a Participating Company any subsidiary of the Company which is eligible to file a consolidated federal income
tax return with the Company, provided that as a result of such exclusion, the number of individuals reasonably expected to be excluded from eligibility to participate in the Plan does not exceed 1,000; or  
 (v) that is not expected to increase the costs of the Plan by more than $10 million annually based on a reasonable actuarial or other
estimate.    12.1.3 Any amendment or termination of the Plan shall become effective as of the date designated by the Board of Directors,
the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or EVP; provided however, that an amendment to the Plan shall not be effective to the extent that it has the effect of decreasing a Participant s accrued benefit under section 411(d)(6) of
the Code. Except as expressly provided elsewhere in the Plan, prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to the benefits provided under this Plan, no amendment or termination shall cause any part of the monies contributed hereunder to
revert to the  
      -65-  

Participating Companies or to be diverted to any purpose other than for the exclusive benefit of Participants and their beneficiaries. Upon termination or partial termination of the Plan, or upon
complete discontinuance of contributions, the rights of all affected persons to benefits accrued to the date of such termination shall be nonforfeitable. Upon termination of the plan without establishment or maintenance of another defined
contribution plan (other than an employee stock ownership plan as defined in section 4975(e)(7) of the Code or a simplified employee pension plan as defined in Section 408(k) of the Code), Accounts shall be distributed in accordance with
applicable law.    Section 12.2.  Merger . The Plan shall not be merged with or consolidated with, nor shall its assets be
transferred to, any other qualified retirement plan unless each Participant would receive a benefit after such merger, consolidation, or transfer (assuming the Plan then terminated) which is of actuarial value equal to or greater than the benefit he
would have received from his Account if the Plan had been terminated on the day before such merger, consolidation, or transfer.  
      -66-  

ARTICLE XIII  
 TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS  
 Section 13.1.  General . The following provisions shall apply automatically to the Plan and shall supersede any contrary provisions
for each Plan Year in which the Plan is a  Top-Heavy  Plan (as defined below). It is intended that this Article shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of section 416 of the Code.  
 Section 13.2.  Definitions . The following definitions shall supplement those set forth in Article I of the Plan:  
 13.2.1.   Aggregation Group   means this plan and each other qualified retirement plan (including a frozen plan or a plan
which has been terminated during the  60-month  period ending on the Determination Date) of a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company:  
 (a) in which a Key Employee is a participant; or  
 (b) which enables any plan in which a Key Employee participates to meet the requirements of sections 401(a)(4) or 410 of the Code; or  
 (c) without the inclusion of which, the plans in the Aggregation Group would be  Top-Heavy  Plans, but,
with the inclusion of which, the plans in the Aggregation Group are not  Top-Heavy  Plans and, taken together, meet the requirements of sections 401(a)(4) and 410 of the Code.  
 13.2.2.   Determination Date   means, for any Plan Year, the last day of the preceding Plan Year.  
 13.2.3.   Key Employee   means any Employee or former Employee (including any deceased Employee) who at any time during the
Plan Year that includes the Determination Date was an officer of a Participating Company having Compensation for a Plan Year greater than $165,000 (as adjusted under section 415(i)(1) of the Code), a 5% owner of a Participating Company, or a 1%
owner of a Participating Company having Compensation in excess of $150,000. For this purpose, Compensation means compensation within the meaning of section 415(c)(3) of the Code. The determination of who is a key employee will be made in accordance
with section 416(i)(1) of the Code and the applicable regulations and other guidance of general applicability issued thereunder.    13.2.4.
  Key Employee Ratio   means, for any Determination Date, the ratio of the amount described in Section 13.2.4(a) to the amount described in Section 13.2.4(b), after deducting from each such amount any portion thereof
described in Section 13.2.4(c), where:    (a) the amount described in this Paragraph is the sum of:  
 (1) the present value of all accrued benefits of Key Employees under all qualified defined benefit plans included in the Aggregation Group;
 
      -67-  

(2) the balances in all of the accounts of Key Employees under all qualified defined
contribution plans included in the Aggregation Group; and    (3) the amounts distributed from all plans in such Aggregation Group to or on
behalf of any Key Employee during the 1-year period (5-year period for distributions made for a reason other than incurring a Severance from Service Date, death or Total Disability) ending on the Determination Date, except any benefit paid on
account of death to the extent it exceeds the accrued benefits or account balances immediately prior to death;    (b) the amount described
in this Paragraph is the sum of:    (1) the present value of all accrued benefits of all participants under all qualified defined benefit
plans included in the Aggregation Group;    (2) the balances in all of the accounts of all participants under all qualified defined
contribution plans included in the Aggregation Group; and    (3) the amounts distributed from all plans in such Aggregation Group to or on
behalf of any participant during the 1-year period (5-year period for distributions made for a reason other than incurring a Severance from Service Date, death or Total Disability) ending on the Determination Date; and  
 (c) the amount described in this Paragraph is the sum of:  
 (1) all rollover contributions (or fund to fund transfers) to the Plan by an Employee after December 31, 1983 from a plan sponsored by
an employer which is not a Participating Company or an Affiliated Company;    (2) any amount that is included in Sections 13.2.4(a) or
13.2.4(b) for a person who is a  Non-Key  Employee as to the Plan Year of reference but who was a Key Employee as to any earlier Plan Year; and  
 (3) any amount that is included in Sections 13.2.4(a) or 13.2.4(b) for a person who has not performed any services for any Participating
Company during the 1-year period ending on the Determination Date.    The present value of accrued benefits under any defined benefit plan shall be
determined under the method used for accrual purposes for all plans maintained by all Participating Companies and Affiliated Companies if a single method is used by all such plans, or, otherwise, the slowest accrual method permitted under section
411(b)(1)(C) of the Code.    For purposes of Sections 13.2.4(a)(3) and (b)(3), distributions under a terminated plan which, had it not been terminated,
would have been aggregated with the Plan under section 416(g)(2)(A)(i) of the Code shall also be included. The accrued benefits and accounts of any individual who has not performed services for a Participating Company during the 1-year period ending
on the Determination Date shall not be taken into account  
      -68-  

13.2.5.   Non-Key Employee   means, for any Plan Year:  
 (a) an Employee or former Employee who is not a Key Employee with respect to such Plan Year; or  
 (b) a beneficiary of an individual described in Section 13.2.5(a).  
 13.2.6.   Super  Top-Heavy  Plan   means, for any Plan Year, each plan in the
Aggregation Group for such Plan Year if, as of the applicable Determination Date, the Key Employee Ratio exceeds ninety percent (90%).  
 13.2.7.    Top-Heavy  Compensation   means, for any Participant for any Plan Year, the
average of his annual Compensation over the period of five consecutive Plan Years (or, if shorter, the longest period of consecutive Plan Years during which the Participant was in the employ of any Participating Company) yielding the highest
average, disregarding:    (a) Compensation for Plan Years ending prior to January 1, 1984; and  
 (b) Compensation for Plan Years after the close of the last Plan Year in which the Plan was a Top-Heavy Plan.  
 13.2.8.   Top-Heavy Plan   means, for any Plan Year, each plan in the Aggregation Group for such Plan Year if, as of the
applicable Determination Date, the Key Employee Ratio exceeds sixty percent (60%).    13.2.9.   Year of Top-Heavy Service  
means, for any Participant, a Plan Year in which he completes 1,000 or more Hours of Service, excluding:    (a) Plan Years commencing prior
to January 1, 1984; and    (b) Plan Years in which the Plan is not a  Top-Heavy  Plan.  
 Section 13.3.  Minimum Contribution for  Non-Key  Employees .  
 13.3.1. In each Plan Year in which the Plan is a  Top-Heavy  Plan, each Eligible Employee who is a  Non-Key  Employee (except an Eligible Employee who is a  Non-Key  Employee as to the Plan Year of reference but who was a Key Employee as to any earlier Plan Year) and who is an
Employee on the last day of such Plan Year will receive a total minimum Participating Company or Affiliated Company contribution (including forfeitures) under all plans described in Sections 13.2.1(a) and (b) of not less than three percent
(3%) of the Eligible Employee s Compensation for the Plan Year. Elective deferrals to such plans shall not be used to meet the minimum contribution requirements. However, employer matching contributions under the Plan shall be taken into
account for purposes of satisfying the minimum contribution requirements of section 416(c)(2) of the Code and the Plan. Employer matching  
      -69-  

contributions that are used to satisfy the minimum contribution requirements shall be treated as matching contributions for purposes of the actual contribution percentage test and other
requirements of section 401(m) of the Code.    13.3.2. The percentage set forth in Section 13.3.1 shall be reduced to the percentage
at which contributions, including forfeitures, are made (or are required to be made) for a Plan Year for the Key Employee for whom such percentage is the highest for that Plan Year. This percentage shall be determined for each Key Employee by
dividing the contribution for such Key Employee by his Compensation for the Plan Year. All defined contribution plans required to be included in an Aggregation Group shall be treated as one plan for the purpose; however, this Section shall not apply
to any plan which is required to be included in the Aggregation Group if such plan enables a defined benefit plan in the group to meet the requirements of section 401(a)(4) or section 410 of the Code.  
 13.3.3. If a  Non-Key  Employee described in Section 13.3.1 participates in both a defined benefit
plan and a defined contribution plan described in Sections 13.2.1(a) and (b), the Participating Company is not required to provide such Employee with both the minimum benefit under the defined benefit plan and the minimum contribution. In such
event, the  Non-Key  Employee shall not receive the minimum contribution described in this Section if he has the minimum benefit required by section 416 of the Code under the defined benefit  Top-Heavy  Plan.    Section 13.4.  Social Security . The Plan, for each Plan Year in which it is
a  Top-Heavy  Plan, must meet the requirements of this Article without regard to any Social Security or similar contributions or benefits.  
      -70-  

ARTICLE XIV  
 GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 Section 14.1.  No Employment Rights . Neither the action of the Company in establishing the Plan, nor of any Participating Company
in adopting the Plan, nor any provisions of the Plan, nor any action taken by the Company, any Participating Company or the Committee shall be construed as giving to any Employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any
Participating Company, or any right to payment except to the extent of the benefits provided in the Plan to be paid from the Fund.  
 Section 14.2.  Governing Law . Except to the extent superseded by ERISA, all questions pertaining to the validity, construction, and
operation of the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to its conflicts of law doctrine.  
 Section 14.3.  Severability of Provisions . If any provision of this Plan is determined to be void by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the Plan shall continue to operate and, for the purposes of the jurisdiction of that court only, shall be deemed not to include the provisions determined to be void.  
 Section 14.4.  No Interest in Fund . No person shall have any interest in, or right to, any part of the principal or income of the
Fund, except as and to the extent expressly provided in this Plan and in the Trust Agreement.    Section 14.5.  Spendthrift
Clause . No benefit payable at any time under this Plan and no interest or expectancy herein shall be anticipated, assigned, or alienated by any Participant or beneficiary, or subject to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution, or other legal or
equitable process, except for (1) a Federal tax levy made pursuant to section 6331 of the Code and (2) any benefit payable pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. Any attempt to alienate or assign a benefit hereunder, whether
currently or hereafter payable, shall be void. The Committee shall review any domestic relations order to determine whether it is qualified within the meaning of section 414(p) of the Code. An order shall not be qualified unless it complies with all
applicable provisions of the Plan concerning mode of payment and manner of elections. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and any restrictions on timing of distributions and withdrawals under the Plan, an order may provide for distribution at any
time permitted under section 414(p)(10) of the Code.    Section 14.6.  Incapacity . If the Committee deems any Participant who is
entitled to receive payments hereunder incapable of receiving or disbursing the same by reason of age, illness, infirmity, or incapacity of any kind, the Committee may direct the Trustee to apply such payments directly for the comfort, support, and
maintenance of such Participant, or to pay the same to any responsible person caring for the Participant who is determined by the Committee to be qualified to receive and disburse such payments for the Participant s benefit; and the receipt of
such person shall be a complete acquittance for the payment of the benefit. Payments pursuant to this Section shall be complete discharge to the extent thereof of any and all liability of the Participating Companies, the Committee, the
Administrator, the Trustee, and the Fund.  
      -71-  

Section 14.7.  Withholding . The Committee and the Trustee shall have the right to
withhold any and all state, local, and Federal taxes which may be withheld in accordance with applicable law.    Section 14.8.
 Missing Persons/Uncashed Checks .    14.8.1.  Missing Persons . Neither the Trustee nor any Participating Company shall be
obliged to search for or ascertain the whereabouts of any individual entitled to benefits under the Plan. Any individual entitled to benefits under the Plan who does not file a timely claim for his benefits will be allowed to file a claim at any
later date, and payment of his benefits will commence after that later date, except that, in the event the Participating Company is satisfied that a Participant has no Spouse or that a Participant s Spouse cannot be located (as described in
Section 5.11), and the Participant is in fact married or the Spouse is later located, whichever is applicable, such Spouse shall not be deemed an individual entitled to benefits under the Plan. In the event that a Participant or beneficiary
does not claim his benefits by the applicable required beginning date in accordance with section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations thereunder, the Plan shall forfeit the Account. If and when a claim for benefits is made after such
forfeiture, the Account balance as of the date of forfeiture shall be subject to reinstatement.    14.8.2.  Uncashed Checks . If a
Participant requests payment of his benefits or if the Participant is automatically cashed out pursuant to Section 5.6.1, and such Participant does not cash the distribution check, the distribution amount will be reinstated under the Plan and
invested in the Plan s default investment alternative, subject to the following: (a) if the distribution was not subject to withholding because it was intended to be a direct rollover, or if the distribution was subject to withholding and
the reinstatement occurs within the same Plan Year as the initial check issuance, the distribution amount will be reinstated in the same Accounts as immediately preceding the distribution; (b) if the distribution was subject to withholding and
the reinstatement occurs after the close of the Plan Year in which the initial check issuance occurred, the distribution amount will be reinstated as an amount in the After-Tax Rollover Account.  
 Section 14.9.  Notice . Notices required to be given by Participants pursuant to the terms of the Plan must be in writing; provided,
however, that the Company may approve, in lieu of written notice, alternative methods of notice, including electronic modes of communication.  
      -72-  

ARTICLE XV  
 ADDITIONAL SERVICE CREDIT FOR FORMER  
 EMPLOYEES OF CERTAIN ACQUIRED BUSINESSES  
 Section 15.1.  Additional Service Credit . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, each Employee who is described
in Section 15.3 shall, for the purpose of determining his eligibility to participate in the Plan under Article II, and his vested status under Article VI, receive credit for his period of employment with a Listed Employer, as if such Listed
Employer had been a Participating Company during such period of employment.    Section 15.2.  Listed Employer . For purposes of
this Article XV, a Listed Employer is an entity, with respect to which all or a portion of its stock and/or assets are purchased by an Affiliated Company, which is designated by the Board or its authorized delegate as a Listed Employer.  
 Section 15.3.  Applicability . This Article shall apply to any individual who becomes an employee of a Participating Company
directly from a Listed Employer. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Article XV shall apply to any individual who becomes an employee of a Participating Company directly from Susquehanna Cable Co. ( Susquehanna ) or any
of the Selling Subsidiaries as defined in the Asset Purchase Agreement between Susquehanna and Comcast Corporation dated October 31, 2005 (the  Susquehanna APA ), during the period beginning on February 20, 2006 and ending on the
date immediately following the date on which the transaction contemplated under the Susquehanna APA becomes effective (or December 31, 2006, if such transaction is not completed by that date).  
 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Article XV shall apply to any individual who becomes an employee of a Participating Company directly
from (i) Adelphia Communications Corporation ( Adelphia ) only for the one year period following the date on which the transaction contemplated under the Asset Purchase Agreement between Adelphia and Comcast Corporation dated
April 20, 2005 (the  Adelphia Transaction ) is completed and (ii) Time Warner NY Cable LLC ( Time Warner ) as of the date the transaction contemplated under the Asset Purchase Agreement between Time Warner and Adelphia
dated April 20, 2005 (the  Time Warner Transaction ) is completed.    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Article XV shall
apply to any individual who becomes an employee of a Participating Company directly from Time Warner Houston as of January 1, 2007 pursuant to the Employment Matters Agreement by and among Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, LLP, Time Warner
Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partners LLC, TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, TCI Texas Cable, LLC, Comcast TCP Holdings, Inc. and Comcast TCP Holdings, LLC. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, this Article XV shall not apply for the period August 1, 2006 through December 17, 2006 to any individual who becomes an employee of a Participating Company directly from thePlatform for Media, Inc.  
 Section 15.4.  Limitation . Notwithstanding any provision of this Article to the contrary, the application of this Article shall not
cause any Employee to become a Participant in the Plan prior to the effective date of an entity being designated as a Listed Employer with which he was employed, unless he would have become a Participant at an earlier date without regard to this
Article.  
      -73-  

ARTICLE XVI  
 COMCAST SPORTS NETWORK (PHILADELPHIA) L.P.  
 Section 16.1.  General . Comcast Sports Network (Philadelphia) L.P., a Pennsylvania limited partnership (formerly known as
Philadelphia Sports Media LP) ( CSN Philly ) and each of its subsidiaries that are members of the controlled group of trades or businesses that includes CSN Philly, became a Participating Company hereunder, effective July 1, 2001.
   Section 16.2.  Eligibility and Vesting Service . For purposes of determining a Covered Employee s eligibility to
participate and his vested status under the Plan, a Covered Employee s period of employment with CSN Philly before July 1, 2001 shall be counted as part of his Period of Service under this Plan.  
 Section 16.3.  Eligibility to Participate . Notwithstanding any provision of Article II to the contrary:  
 16.3.1. Each Covered Employee of CSN Philly who was eligible to participate in the Comcast-Spectacor 401(k) Plan as of June 30, 2001 was
eligible to participate in the Plan as of July 1, 2001.    16.3.2. Each other CSN Philly Covered Employee shall be eligible to
participate in accordance with the provision of Article II.    Section 16.4.  Separate Testing . The portion of the Plan that
benefits employees of CSN Philly and all entities which are Affiliated Companies with respect to CSN Philly shall be treated, to the extent required by law, as a separate part of a multiple employer plan, unless and until CSN Philly and its
Affiliated Companies become members of the controlled group of employers (within the meaning of section 414(b) of section 414(c) of the Code) that includes the Company. For purposes of the Plan and this Article XVI, an individual shall be treated as
an employee of CSN Philly or its Affiliated Companies if such employee is listed as an employee of CSN Philly or its Affiliated Companies as of the last day of a Plan Year.  
      -74-  

ARTICLE XVII  
 COMCAST SPORTSNET CHICAGO L.P.  
 Section 17.1.  General . Comcast SportsNet Chicago L.P. ( CSN Chicago ), and each of its subsidiaries that are members of
the controlled group of trades or businesses that includes CSN Chicago, is a Participating Company hereunder.    Section 17.2.
 Separate Testing . The portion of the Plan that benefits employees of CSN Chicago and all entities which are Affiliated Companies with respect to CSN Chicago shall be treated, to the extent required by law, as a separate part of a multiple
employer plan, unless and until CSN Chicago and its Affiliated Companies become members of the controlled group of employers (within the meaning of section 414(b) of section 414(c) of the Code) that includes the Company. For purposes of the Plan and
this Article XVII, an individual shall be treated as an employee of CSN Chicago or its Affiliated Companies if such employee is listed as an employee of CSN Chicago or its Affiliated Companies as of the last day of a Plan Year.  
      -75-  

ARTICLE XVIII  
 SPORTSNET NEW YORK, LLC  
 Section 18.1.  General . SportsNet New York, LLC ( SNY ), and each of its subsidiaries that are members of the controlled
group of trades or businesses that includes SNY, is a Participating Company hereunder.    Section 18.2.  Separate Testing . The
portion of the Plan that benefits employees of SNY and all entities which are Affiliated Companies with respect to SNY shall be treated, to the extent required by law, as a separate part of a multiple employer plan, unless and until SNY and its
Affiliated Companies become members of the controlled group of employers (within the meaning of section 414(b) of section 414(c) of the Code) that includes the Company. For purposes of the Plan and this Article XVIII, an individual shall be treated
as an employee of SNY or its Affiliated Companies if such employee is listed as an employee of SNY or its Affiliated Companies as of the last day of a Plan Year.  
      -76-  

ARTICLE XIX  
 COMCAST SPORTSNET BAY AREA L.P.  
 Section 19.1.  General . Comcast SportsNet Bay Area L.P. ( CSN Bay Area ), and each of its subsidiaries that are members
of the controlled group of trades or businesses that includes CSN Bay Area, is a Participating Company hereunder.    Section 19.2.
 Separate Testing . The portion of the Plan that benefits employees of CSN Bay Area and all entities which are Affiliated Companies with respect to CSN Bay Area shall be treated, to the extent required by law, as a separate part of a multiple
employer plan, unless and until CSN Bay Area and its Affiliated Companies become members of the controlled group of employers (within the meaning of section 414(b) of section 414(c) of the Code) that includes the Company. For purposes of the Plan
and this Article XIX, an individual shall be treated as an employee of CSN Bay Area or its Affiliated Companies if such employee is listed as an employee of CSN Bay Area or its Affiliated Companies as of the last day of a Plan Year.  
      -77-  

Executed on the 17th day of December, 2015  

COMCAST CORPORATION  

BY: 
   
   /s/ David L. Cohen   

ATTEST: 
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   

-78-  

SCHEDULE A  
 MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS  
 1.  General Rules .    (A)
 Effective Date . The provisions of this Schedule A will apply for purposes of determining required minimum distributions for calendar years beginning on or after January 1, 2003.  
 (B)  Precedence . The requirements of this Schedule A will take precedence over any inconsistent provisions of the Plan.  
 (C)  Requirements of Treasury Regulations Incorporated . All distributions required under this Schedule A will be determined and made in
accordance with the Treasury Regulations under section 401(a)(9) of the Code.    (D)  TEFRA Section 242(b)(2) Elections .
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Schedule A, distributions may be made under a designation made before January 1, 1984, in accordance with section 242(b)(2) of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA) and the provisions
of the Plan that relate to section 242(b)(2) of TEFRA.    2.  Time and Manner of Distribution .  
 (A)  Required Beginning Date . The Participant s entire interest will be distributed, or begin to be distributed, to the Participant
no later than the Participant s Required Beginning Date.    (B)  Death of Participant Before Distributions Begin . If the
Participant dies before distributions begin, the Participant s entire interest will be distributed, or begin to be distributed, no later than as follows:  
 (1) If the Participant s surviving Spouse is the Participant s sole Designated Beneficiary, then distributions to the surviving
Spouse will begin by December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant died, or by December 31 of the calendar year in which the Participant would have attained Age 70  1   2 , if later.    (2) If the Participant s
surviving Spouse is not the Participant s sole Designated Beneficiary, then (a) distributions to the Designated Beneficiary will begin by December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the
Participant died or (b) the Designated Beneficiary s entire interest shall be distributed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the fifth anniversary of the Participant s death.  
 (3) If there is no Designated Beneficiary as of September 30 of the year following the year of the Participant s death, the
Participant s entire interest will be distributed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the fifth anniversary of the Participant s death.  
      -79-  

(4) If the Participant s surviving Spouse is the Participant s sole Designated
Beneficiary and the surviving Spouse dies after the Participant but before distributions to the surviving Spouse begin, this Section 2(B), other than Section 2(B)(1), will apply as if the surviving Spouse were the Participant.  
 For purposes of this Section 2(B) and Section 4, unless Section 2(B)(4) applies, distributions are considered to begin on the
Participant s Required Beginning Date. If Section 2(B)(4) applies, distributions are considered to begin on the date distributions are required to begin to the surviving Spouse under Section 2(B)(1). If distributions under an annuity
purchased from an insurance company irrevocably commence to the Participant before the Participant s Required Beginning Date (or to the Participant s surviving Spouse before the date distributions are required to begin to the surviving
Spouse under Section 2(B)(1)), the date distributions are considered to begin is the date distributions actually commence.    (C)
 Forms of Distribution . Unless the Participant s interest is distributed in the form of an annuity purchased from an insurance company or in a single sum on or before the Required Beginning Date, as of the first Distribution Calendar Year
distributions will be made in accordance with Sections 3 and 4 of this Schedule A. If the Participant s interest is distributed in the form of an annuity purchased from an insurance company, distributions thereunder will be made in accordance
with the requirements of section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations.    3.  Required Minimum Distributions During
Participant s Lifetime .    (A)  Amount of Required Minimum Distribution For Each Distribution Calendar Year . During the
Participant s lifetime, the minimum amount that will be distributed for each Distribution Calendar Year is the lesser of:    (1) the
quotient obtained by dividing the Participant s Account Balance by the distribution period in the Uniform Lifetime Table set forth in section 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the Treasury Regulations, using the Participant s Age as of the
Participant s birthday in the Distribution Calendar Year; or    (2) if the Participant s sole Designated Beneficiary for the
Distribution Calendar Year is the Participant s Spouse, the quotient obtained by dividing the Participant s Account Balance by the number in the Joint and Last Survivor Table set forth in section 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the Treasury Regulations,
using the Participant s and Spouse s attained ages as of the Participant s and Spouse s birthdays in the Distribution Calendar Year.  
 (B)  Lifetime Required Minimum Distributions Continue Through Year of Participant s Death . Required minimum distributions will be
determined under this Section 3 beginning with the first Distribution Calendar Year and up to and including the Distribution Calendar Year that includes the Participant s date of death.  
 4.  Required Minimum Distributions After Participant s Death .  
 (A)  Death On or After Date Distributions Begin .  
      -80-  

(1)  Participant Survived by Designated Beneficiary . If the Participant dies on or after
the date distributions begin and there is a Designated Beneficiary, the minimum amount that will be distributed for each Distribution Calendar Year after the year of the Participant s death is the quotient obtained by dividing the
Participant s Account Balance by the longer of the remaining Life Expectancy of the Participant or the remaining Life Expectancy of the Participant s Designated Beneficiary, determined as follows:  
 (a) The Participant s remaining Life Expectancy is calculated using the Age of the Participant in the year of death, reduced by one for
each subsequent year.    (b) If the Participant s surviving Spouse is the Participant s sole Designated Beneficiary, the
remaining Life Expectancy of the surviving Spouse is calculated for each Distribution Calendar Year after the year of the Participant s death using the surviving Spouse s age as of the Spouse s birthday in that year. For Distribution
Calendar Years after the year of the surviving Spouse s death, the remaining Life Expectancy of the surviving Spouse is calculated using the age of the surviving Spouse as of the Spouse s birthday in the calendar year of the Spouse s
death, reduced by one for each subsequent calendar year.    (c) If the Participant s surviving Spouse is not the Participant s
sole Designated Beneficiary, the Designated Beneficiary s remaining Life Expectancy is calculated using the age of the beneficiary in the year following the year of the Participant s death, reduced by one for each subsequent year.  
 (2)  No Designated Beneficiary . If the Participant dies on or after the date distributions begin and there is no Designated Beneficiary
as of September 30 of the year after the year of the Participant s death, the minimum amount that will be distributed for each Distribution Calendar Year after the year of the Participant s death is the quotient obtained by dividing
the Participant s Account Balance by the Participant s remaining Life Expectancy calculated using the age of the Participant in the year of death, reduced by one for each subsequent year.  
 (B)  Death Before Date Distributions Begin .  
 (1)  Participant Survived by Designated Beneficiary . If the Participant dies before the date distributions begin and there is a
Designated Beneficiary, the minimum amount that will be distributed for each Distribution Calendar Year after the year of the Participant s death is the quotient obtained by dividing the Participant s Account Balance by the remaining Life
Expectancy of the Participant s Designated Beneficiary, determined as provided in Section 4(A).    (2)  No Designated
Beneficiary . If the Participant dies before the date distributions begin and there is no Designated Beneficiary as of September 30 of the year following the year of the Participant s death, distribution of the Participant s entire
interest will be completed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the fifth anniversary of the Participant s death.  
      -81-  

(3)  Death of Surviving Spouse Before Distributions to Surviving Spouse Are Required to
Begin . If the Participant dies before the date distributions begin, the Participant s surviving Spouse is the Participant s sole Designated Beneficiary, and the surviving Spouse dies before distributions are required to begin to the
surviving Spouse under Section 2(B)(1), this Section 4(B) will apply as if the surviving Spouse were the Participant.    5.
 Definitions . For purposes of this Schedule, the following definitions are used.    (A)  Account Balance . The Account balance
as of the last valuation date in the calendar year immediately preceding the Distribution Calendar Year (valuation calendar year) increased by the amount of any contributions made and allocated or forfeitures allocated to the account balance as of
dates in the valuation calendar year after the valuation date and decreased by distributions made in the valuation calendar year after the valuation date. The Account Balance for the valuation calendar year includes any amounts rolled over or
transferred to the Plan either in the valuation calendar year or in the Distribution Calendar Year if distributed or transferred in the valuation calendar year.  
 (B)  Designated Beneficiary . The individual who is designated as the beneficiary under the Plan and is the designated beneficiary under
section 401(a)(9) of the Code and section 1.401(a)(9)-1, Q A-4, of the Treasury Regulations.    (C)  Distribution Calendar
Year . A calendar year for which a minimum distribution is required. For distributions beginning before the Participant s death, the first Distribution Calendar Year is the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year which contains
the Participant s Required Beginning Date. For distributions beginning after the Participant s death, the first Distribution Calendar Year is the calendar year in which distributions are required to begin under Section 2(B). The
required minimum distribution for the Participant s first Distribution Calendar Year will be made on or before the Participant s Required Beginning Date. The required minimum distribution for other Distribution Calendar Years, including
the required minimum distribution for the Distribution Calendar Year in which the Participant s Required Beginning Date occurs, will be made on or before December 31 of that Distribution Calendar Year.  
 (D)  Life Expectancy . Life expectancy as computed by use of the Single Life Table in section 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the Treasury Regulations.
   (E)  Required Beginning Date . The date by which the distribution of a Participant s nonforfeitable interest in his Account
must commence, as specified in Article I of the Plan.  
      -82-  

APPENDIX A      
 
      -83-  

APPENDIX B  
   Participating Collective Bargaining Units    
  Comcast and its participating subsidiaries (other than NBCU and its participating subsidiaries)   

Fairfield - IBEW        

Florence (Techs) - IBEW        

Florence Clerical - IBEW        

Fall River/Fairhaven - IBEW        

Cortland - I BEW        

Alle-Kiske - CWA        

Harrisburg - IBEW        

South Hills (Techs) - CWA        

South Hills (CSSR s) - CWA        

Pleasantville - IBEW        

Toms River   IBEW        

Columbus Blvd. - IBEW        

Chicago West - IBEW        

Corliss - CWA        

Oakland - CWA        

Bay Area - CWA        

Detroit - CWA        

Port Huron - CWA       NBCUniversal and its participating subsidiaries   

Burbank (NBC/KNBC) - IA 706 (post JV close hires)        

Burbank (NBC/KNBC) - IA 800  Scenic and Graphic  (post JV close hires)        

Burbank (NBC/KNBC) - IA 800  Art Directors  5A Delta (post JV close hires)        

New York (NBC) - IA 700 (post JV close hires)    
      -84-  

APPENDIX B  
   Participating Collective Bargaining Units (cont d)    
  NBCUniversal and its participating subsidiaries (cont d)       

Philadelphia (WCAU) - IATSE - PROD - Local 804 Core (post JV close hires)        

Philadelphia (Comcast SportsNet) - IBEW Local 98 (Event Technicians   1000+ hours daily hires)        

Philadelphia (Comcast SportsNet) - IBEW Local 98 (Studio Technicians)        

Hartford (WVIT)   IBEW (pay type 1) 5A Delta        

Hartford (WVIT)   IBEW (pay type 1) (post JV close hires)        

Philadelphia (WCAU)   IBEW Local 1241 Technicians (post JV close hires)        

Washington (WRC) - IOUE 99 5A Delta (post JV close hires)        

Chicago (ALL)   NABET Regular (post JV close hires)        

Chicago (WSNS Telemundo)   NABET Local 41 Staff (post JV close hires)        

Los Angeles (KVEA/KWHY Telemundo)   NABET Local 53 Staff (post JV close hires)        

New York (WNBC) - WGA Delta (post JV close hires)    
      -85-  

EXHIBIT A   
   PARTICIPATING COMPANIES/LISTED EMPLOYERS        

Name of Entity   
      
    Participating  
  Company   
   
    Listed Employer   
   
    Effective Date    

Ad Sales Acquisitions   - TeleMedia 
 - Charter Communications   - Mediacom 
 - Cox Communications  
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 December 29, 2003  

Gemstar TV Guide 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 April 1, 2004  

US Cable Coastal of Texas LP (Georgia and South Carolina properties only) 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 May 1, 2004  

Tech TV, Inc. (formerly Tech TV LLC) 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 May 10, 2004  

Insight Communications 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 August 1, 2004  

The International Channel 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 August 1, 2004  

Target TV 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 January 1, 2005  

Motorola 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 April 1, 2005  

Liberate Technologies (California employees only) 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 April 8, 2005  

Susquehanna Cable Co. 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 The period beginning on February 20, 2006 and ending on the date immediately following the date on which the transaction contemplated under   
      -86-  

Name of Entity   
      
    Participating  
  Company   
   
    Listed Employer   
   
    Effective Date    

the Susquehanna APA becomes effective (or December 31, 2006, if such transaction is not completed by that date.  

Adelphia Communications Corporation 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 The period beginning on the Closing Date of the Adelphia Transaction and ending on the first anniversary thereof.  

Time Warner NY Cable LLC 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 The date immediately following the Closing Date of the Time Warner Transaction  

thePlatform for Media, Inc. 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 December 18, 2006  

Insight Media 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 January 1, 2008  

E! Entertainment Television, Inc. 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 January 1, 2008  

New England Cable News 
      
 YES 
   
 YES 
   
 January 1, 2010  

NBCUniversal, LLC and its subsidiaries 
      
   NO, except with respect to employees who are on a payroll administered by Comcast Corporation (as determined by Committee or its
delegate).       Notwithstanding the foregoing, NBCUniversal shall be a Participating
Company pursuant  
   
 YES 
   
 The day after the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement, dated December 3, 2009, by and among General Electric Company, a New York corporation, NBC Universal, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Comcast and
Navy,   
      -87-  

Name of Entity   
      
    Participating  
  Company   
   
    Listed Employer   
   
    Effective Date    

to the terms and conditions of  Exhibit B . 

LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.     
 With respect to the provisions of  Exhibit B , January 1, 2013.   

Boxfish 
      
 NO 
   
 YES 
   
 October 5, 2015  
     NON-PARTICIPATING COMPANIES    

* 
 Previously excluded by action of the Board.    
      -88-  

EXHIBIT B   
 NBCUNIVERSAL, LLC  
 Section 1.  General . NBCUniversal, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ( NBCUniversal ) and each of its
subsidiaries that are members of the controlled group of trades or businesses that includes NBCUniversal (within the meaning of section 414(b) and section 414(c) of the Code), shall become a Participating Company hereunder effective January 1,
2013. The terms and conditions of the Plan shall generally apply to Covered Employees of NBCUniversal and its participating subsidiaries, except to the extent such provisions contradict with the terms and conditions set forth in this  Exhibit
B . For avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this  Exhibit B  shall only apply to Covered Employees of NBCUniversal and its participating subsidiaries.  
 Section 2.  Eligibility to Participate .  
 2.1. Each Covered Employee as of the Restatement Date who was eligible to participate in the NBCU CAP immediately prior to the Restatement
Date shall be an Eligible Employee as of the Restatement Date.    2.2. Each other Covered Employee shall become an Eligible Employee:  
 (a) upon his Employment Commencement Date, if he is other than a Temporary Employee or a Paid Intern; or  
 (b) following his completion of a Period of Service of three (3) months, if he is a Temporary Employee (other than a Paid Intern);
 provided, however , that a Covered Employee whose Employment Commencement Date is on or after January 1, 2016 and who is a Temporary Employee shall become an Eligible Employee following his completion of 1,000 Hours of Service during the
twelve month period that begins on such Covered Employee s Employment Commencement Date or during any Plan Year that begins after such Employment Commencement Date.  
 2.3 If an individual is not a Covered Employee on the date he meets the requirements of Section 2.2., he shall become an Eligible
Employee as of the first date thereafter on which he is a Covered Employee.    2.4. If a Covered Employee does not satisfy the requirements
of Section 2.2. prior to incurring a Severance from Service Date, but is rehired prior to incurring a One-Year Period of Severance, his prior Period of Service or Hours of Service, as applicable, shall be considered for purposes of satisfying
the requirements of Section 2.2. If the Covered Employee incurs a One-Year Period of Severance, his prior Period of Service or Hours of Service, as applicable, shall not be considered upon a subsequent Reemployment Commencement Date.  
 2.5. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary and for avoidance of doubt, Employees who are Paid Interns and Employees who are
eligible to participate in the following plans (including any Employee who would be eligible but for the fact that such Employee has not yet met the plan s age and/or service eligibility requirements) shall not be
 
      -89-  

eligible to participate in the Plan: (i) E! Entertainment Television, Inc. Profit Sharing/401(k) Plan, (ii) NBCUniversal Capital Accumulation Plan, (iii) Universal Studios
Hollywood 401(k) Plan, (iv) Wet N  Wild 401(k) Plan, (v) Savings Plan for WNJU Union Employees of Telemundo, or (vi) Universal Orlando 401(k) Plan.  
 2.6. For purposes of this  Exhibit B , (a)  Temporary Employee  means an Employee whose employment is classified by the
Participating Company to which such Employee is employed as  temporary  or  intermittent,  both in accordance with uniformly applied personnel policies; and (b)  Paid Intern  means an Employee whose employment is
classified by the Participating Company to which such Employee is employed as pursuant to an internship and such Employee receives regular wages from the Participating Company in consideration for such employment.  
 2.7.  Automatic Enrollment . Each Covered Employee who does not affirmatively elect to make Pre-Tax Contributions or
Roth Contributions and become an Active Participant pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Plan (and does not affirmatively elect to decline to make Pre-Tax Contributions or Roth Contributions and become an Active Participant) will be
automatically enrolled in the Plan following the date on which such Covered Employee meets the eligibility requirements of Section 2.2 of this  Exhibit B , provided that such automatic enrollment will not occur until as soon as
administratively practicable following the expiration of the 30 th  day following the date on which such Covered Employee is provided notice of his rights and obligations under the Plan as required
by Treas. Reg. 1.401(k)-3(d). Covered Employees who are designated by the Committee or its delegate as having been reemployed by a Participating Company following a seventy-five (75) day Period of Severance are considered newly Eligible
Employees for purposes of the automatic enrollment provisions described in this Section 2.7. Covered Employees who are designated by the Committee or its delegate as having been reemployed by a Participating Company prior to having incurred a
seventy-five (75) day Period of Severance will be automatically re-enrolled in the Plan at the Pre-Tax Contribution rate in effect for such Employee on his Severance from Service Date.  
 Section 3.  Contributions .  
 3.1.  Pre-Tax Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions and Roth Contributions .  
 (a)  Pre-Tax Contributions . When an Eligible Employee files an election under Section 2.3 of the Plan to have Pre-Tax Contributions
made on his behalf, he shall elect the percentage by which his Compensation shall be reduced on account of such Pre-Tax Contributions, with such election becoming effective as soon as administratively practicable following receipt of his election by
the Committee. Subject to Section 3.10 of the Plan, this percentage may be between one percent (1%) and fifty percent (50%) of such Compensation, rounded to the nearer one-half percentage
(  1   2 %). An automatically enrolled Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contributions will, unless and until changed or discontinued by the Eligible Employee in
accordance with Sections 3.2 or 3.3 of the Plan and subject to Section 3.10 of the Plan, be equal to three percent (3%) of the Eligible Employee s Compensation in the first Plan Year in which such Eligible Employee is automatically
enrolled in the Plan (the contribution percentages of Participants that were automatically enrolled in the NBCU CAP with an initial contribution  
      -90-  

percentage 3.5% will not change unless and until changed or discontinued by the Participants). An Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contribution percentage will, unless otherwise elected by the
Employee, increase by one percent (1%), up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) of the Eligible Employee s Compensation, each subsequent Plan Year beginning on the anniversary occurring in that subsequent Plan Year of the date on which such
Eligible Employee was first enrolled in the Plan. The Participating Company shall contribute an amount equal to such percentage of the Eligible Employee s Compensation to the Fund for credit to the Eligible Employee s Pre-Tax Contribution
Account.    (b)  Catch-Up Contributions . An Eligible Employee who has attained or will attain Age 50 before the close of any Plan
Year shall be eligible to make Catch-Up Contributions during that Plan Year, provided at the time any such Catch-Up Contribution is made such Eligible Employee is deferring at least 4.5% of his Compensation as Pre-Tax Contributions or Roth
Contributions. Catch-Up Contributions shall be expressed as a percentage of Compensation between one percent (1%) and thirty percent (30%) (rounded to the nearer one-half percentage (  1   2 %)) and may be designated as either Pre-Tax Catch-Up Contributions or Roth Catch-Up Contributions. Catch-Up Contributions shall not be taken into account for purposes of the provisions of the Plan implementing
the required limitations of sections 402(g) and 415 of the Code. The Plan shall not be treated as failing to satisfy the provisions of the Plan implementing the requirements of section 401(k)(3), 401(k)(11), 401(m)(12), 410(b) or 416 of the Code, as
applicable, by reason of the making of such Catch-Up contributions. Catch-Up Contributions shall not be matched pursuant to Section 3.2 of this  Exhibit B .  
 (c)  Roth Contributions . An Eligible Employee may elect, on a form prescribed by the Committee, to contribute, in lieu of all or a
portion of the Pre-Tax Contributions and/or Pre-Tax Catch-Up Contributions the Participant is otherwise eligible to make under the Plan, Roth Contributions and/or Roth Catch-Up Contributions to the Plan. Such Roth Contributions and Roth Catch-Up
Contributions shall be allocated to the Eligible Employee s Roth Contribution Account or Roth Catch-Up Contribution Account, as applicable. Roth Contributions and Roth Catch-Up Contributions shall be: (i) irrevocably designated as such by
the Eligible Employee at the time of the election described in Sections 3.1(a) or (b) that is being made in lieu of all or a portion of the Pre-Tax Contribution and/or Pre-Tax Catch-Up Contributions the Eligible Employee is otherwise eligible
to make under the Plan; and (ii) treated by the Participating Company as includible in the Eligible Employee s income at the time the Participant would have received that amount in cash if the Eligible Employee had not made an election
described in Sections 3.1(a) or (b). Unless specifically stated otherwise, Roth Contributions shall be treated as Pre-Tax Contributions for all purposes of the Plan (including, without limitation, Matching Contributions under Section 3.2) and
Roth Catch-Up Contributions shall be treated as Pre-Tax Catch-Up Contributions for all purposes of the Plan.    3.2.  Matching
Contributions . Subject to Sections 3.2(b) below and 3.10 of the Plan, the Participating Company shall contribute to the Fund for each Payroll Period:  
 (a) with respect to each Active Participant, an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of such Participant s Pre-Tax
Contributions for such Payroll Period not in excess of four and one-half percent (4  1   2 %) of his Compensation for such Payroll Period.  
      -91-  

(b)  True-Up Contribution . Notwithstanding Section 3.2(a), if the sum of the Matching
Contributions made for an Active Participant on a Payroll Period basis for any Plan Year fails to provide the maximum amount of Matching Contributions to which such Active Participant would be entitled except for the Matching Contributions being
made on a Payroll Period basis for such Plan Year or because of Catch-Up Contributions being re-designated as Pre-Tax Contributions, a Participating Company shall make an additional Matching Contribution for the benefit of such Participant for such
Plan Year in an amount equal to the amount which, when added to the Matching Contributions made pursuant to Section 3.2(a), would have been contributed had the Matching Contribution been based on the amount of the Participant s annual
Pre-Tax Contributions and annual Compensation.    (c) Notwithstanding the forgoing, the maximum total Matching Contribution for any Plan
Year shall be $10,000 for any Participant who (i) is a Highly Compensated Employee and (ii) and is either (A) eligible to participate in the Comcast Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan or (B) a Committee Member. For
purposes of Sections 3.2(c) and 3.3 of this  Exhibit B , a  Committee Member  means any Employee who is a member of the group of senior management employees of the NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries who have been appointed as
members of the NBCUniversal Executive Committee, NBCUniversal Management Committee or NBCUniversal Operating Committee by the Chief Executive Officer of NBCUniversal, LLC and whose membership has been approved by the EVP.  
 3.3.  NBCU Retirement Contributions . With respect to each Plan Year, the Participating Companies will, subject to the limitations of
Section 3.11 of the Plan, contribute to the Fund for each Eligible Employee who is an Employee on the last day of the applicable Plan Year an additional amount equal to 3% of such Eligible Employee s Compensation for that Plan Year. In the
event that an Employee is eligible to receive an allocation of the NBCU Retirement Contribution for a particular Plan Year and such Employee is employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries (other than NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries) as of
the last day of the Plan Year due to a transfer of employment from NBCUniversal or one of its subsidiaries during such Plan Year, such eligible Employee s allocation of the NBCU Retirement Contribution will be limited to 3% of such Eligible
Employee s Compensation for the portion of the Plan Year he or she was employed by NBCUniversal or one of its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Eligible Employee shall be eligible to receive an NBCU Retirement Contribution
pursuant to this Section 3.3 if such Employee is either (i) eligible to participate in the Comcast Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan or (B) a Committee Member.  
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee who is otherwise eligible to receive an allocation of the NBCU Retirement Contribution for a Plan Year may elect to
not receive such allocation provided (i) such Employee has a sincere religious objection to receiving such contribution and (ii) not later than the last day of the Plan Year to which such contribution relates, such Employee executes a
waiver in a form provided by the Committee pursuant to which such Employee elects not to receive an allocation of the Comcast Retirement Contribution and releases the Plan, the Company and their respective affiliates from any and all claims related
to not receiving such allocation.    For avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Sections 3.1.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12
and 3.13 of the Plan shall apply to Participants subject to this  Exhibit B .  
      -92-  

Section 4.  Vesting . Each Participant shall become vested in that portion of his NBCU
Retirement Contribution Account in accordance with the following schedule:      
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall have a 100% nonforfeitable interest in his NBCU Retirement
Contribution Account upon his attainment of his Normal Retirement Date, his death or his Total Disability, provided the Participant is an Active Participant at the time of the occurrence of such event. Amounts forfeited from a Participant s
NBCU Retirement Contribution Account under Section 6 of the Plan shall be used to reduce future Matching Contributions and/or NBCU Retirement Contributions or to pay plan expenses. The remaining provisions of Article VI of the Plan (to the
extent not contradicted by this  Exhibit B ) shall apply to Participants subject to this  Exhibit B .    Section 5.
 Withdrawals . In addition to Active Participants, the following Participants (as determined by the Committee) shall be eligible to receive withdrawals pursuant to Article VIII of the Plan (provided such Participant otherwise meets the
eligibility requirements for such withdrawals set forth in the applicable subsection of Article VIII of the Plan): (1) any Participant who is on an unpaid leave of absence without pay; (2) any Participant who is a leave of absence as a
result of pregnancy; (3) any Participant who is on a leave of absence while receiving workers  compensation benefits; (4) any Participant who is on a leave of absence as a result of performing active duty service in the uniformed
services (as defined in chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code); (5) any Participant who is not actively employed with a Participating Company as a result of an involuntary layoff; and (6) any Participant who is no longer eligible to
actively participate in the Plan solely as a result of transferring to a collectively bargained unit that does not participate in the Plan. The remaining provisions of Article VIII of the Plan (to the extent not contradicted by this  Exhibit
B ) shall apply to Participants subject to this  Exhibit B .    Section 6.  Loans to Participants . In addition to Active
Participants, the following Participants (as determined by the Committee) shall be eligible to apply for a loan from the Plan pursuant to Article IX of the Plan: (1) any Participant who is on a paid or unpaid leave of absence; and (2) any
Participant who is no longer eligible to actively participate in the Plan solely as a result of transferring to a collectively bargained unit that does not participate in the Plan. Notwithstanding Section 9.3.1 to the contrary, a Participant
who has more than one loan transferred from his account under the NBCU CAP may continue have both loans outstanding under the Plan but may not take a new loan from the Plan until all outstanding loans are paid in full. The remaining provisions of
Article IX of the Plan (to the extent not contradicted by this  Exhibit B ) shall apply to Participants subject to this  Exhibit B .  
 Section 7.  Separate Testing . The portion of the Plan that benefits employees of NBCUniversal and all entities which are Affiliated
Companies with respect to NBCUniversal  
      -93-  

shall be treated, to the extent required by law, as a separate part of a multiple employer plan, unless and until NBCUniversal and its Affiliated Companies become members of the controlled group
of employers (within the meaning of section 414(b) and section 414(c) of the Code) that includes the Company.  
      -94-  

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.14>
 4
 d49239dex1014.htm
 EX-10.14

EX-10.14 

Exhibit 10.14   
  COMCAST CORPORATION   
  2002 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN       
   COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation, hereby amends and
restates the Comcast Corporation 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan is intended to encourage and facilitate the purchase of shares of common stock of Comcast Corporation by Eligible Employees of the Company and any
Participating Companies, thereby providing such Eligible Employees with a personal stake in the Company and a long-range inducement to remain in the employ of the Company and Participating Companies. It is the intention of the Company that the Plan
qualify as an  employee stock purchase plan  within the meaning of section 423 of the Code.      

2.  
   Definitions .       (a)   Account   means a bookkeeping account
established by the Committee on behalf of a Participant to hold Payroll Deductions.    (b)   Affiliate   means, with respect
to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term  control,  including its correlative terms
 controlled by  and  under common control with,  mean, with respect to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.    (c)   Board   means the Board of Directors of the
Company.    (d)   Brokerage Account   means the brokerage account established under the Plan by the Company for each
Participant, to which Shares purchased under the Plan shall be credited.    (e)   Change of Control   means any transaction
or series of transactions as a result of which any Person who was a Third Party immediately before such transaction or series of transactions owns then-outstanding securities of the Company such that such Person has the ability to direct the
management of the Company, as determined by the Board in its discretion. The Board may also determine that a Change of Control shall occur upon the completion of one or more proposed transactions. The Board s determination shall be
final and binding.    (f)   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  
 (g)   Committee   means the Compensation Committee of the Board.  
 (h)   Company   means Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, including any successor thereto by merger,
consolidation, acquisition of all or substantially all the assets thereof, or otherwise.  

(i)   Compensation   means an Eligible Employee s wages as
reported on Form  W-2  ( i.e. , wages as defined in section 3401(a) of the Code and all other payments of compensation for which the Participating Company is required to furnish the employee a written
statement under sections 6041(d) and 6051(a)(3) of the Code) from a Participating Company, reduced by reimbursements or other expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash and non-cash), moving expenses, deferred compensation, and welfare benefits, but
including salary reduction contributions and elective contributions that are not includible in gross income under sections 125 or 402(a)(8) of the Code.  
 (j)   Comcast Group   means the Company and any Affiliate of the Company.  
 (k)   Election Form   means the written or electronic form acceptable to the Committee which an Eligible Employee shall use to
make an election to purchase Shares through Payroll Deductions pursuant to the Plan.    (l)   Eligible Employee   means an
Employee who is not an Ineligible Employee.    (m)   Eligible Employer   means the Company and any subsidiary of the Company,
within the meaning of section 424(f) of the Code.    (n)   Employee   means a person who is an employee of a Participating
Company.    (o)   Fair Market Value   means the closing price per Share on the principal national securities exchange on
which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or traded on any such exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System ( NASDAQ ), or if not listed or
traded on any such exchange or system, the fair market value as reasonably determined by the Board or the Committee, which determination shall be conclusive.  
 (p)   Five Percent Owner   means an Employee who, with respect to a Participating Company, is described in section 423(b)(3) of
the Code.    (q)   Ineligible Employee   means an Employee who, as of an Offering Commencement Date:  
 (1) is a Five Percent Owner;  
 (2) has been continuously employed by the Comcast Group on a  full-time  basis for less than 90 days;
   (3) has been continuously employed by the Comcast Group on a  part-time  basis for less than one
year; or    (4) is restricted from participating under Paragraph 3(b).  
 For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q), an Employee is employed on a  part-time  basis if the Employee customarily works
less than 20 hours per week. For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q), an Employee is employed on a  full-time  basis if the Employee customarily works 20 or more hours per week.  
      -2-  

(r)   Offering   means an offering of Shares by the Company to Eligible Employees
pursuant to the Plan.    (s)   Offering Commencement Date   means the first day of each
January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 beginning on or after Offerings are authorized by the Board or the Committee, until the Plan Termination Date, provided that the first Offering Commencement Date shall be on the
Effective Date.    (t)   Offering Period   means the period extending from an Offering Commencement Date through the
following Offering Termination Date.    (u)   Offering Termination Date   means the last day of each March, June, September
and December following an Offering Commencement Date, or such other Offering Termination Date established in connection with a Terminating Event.  
 (v)   Participant   means an Eligible Employee who has timely delivered an Election Form to the Committee in accordance with
procedures established by the Committee.    (w)   Participating Company   means each Eligible Employer whose employees 
Compensation is administered under the Company s common payroll system, other than such an Eligible Employer that is designated by the Board or Committee as an excluded Eligible Employer, provided that the Board or Committee may designate an
Eligible Employer whose employees  Compensation is not administered under the Company s common payroll system as a Participating Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may delegate its authority to designate or
exclude an Eligible Employer as a Participating Company under this Paragraph 2(w) to an officer of the Company or committee of two or more officers of the Company.  
 (x)   Payroll Deductions   means amounts withheld from a Participant s Compensation pursuant to the Plan, as described in
Paragraph 5.    (y)   Person   means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity
or organization.    (z)   Plan   means the Comcast Corporation 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as set forth in this
document, and as may be amended from time to time.    (aa)   Plan Termination Date   means the earlier of:  
 (1) the Offering Termination Date for the Offering in which the maximum number of Shares specified in Paragraph 9 have been issued pursuant to
the Plan; or    (2) the date as of which the Board or the Committee chooses to terminate the Plan as provided in Paragraph 14.  
      -3-  

(bb)   Purchase Price   means 85 percent of the lesser of: (1) the Fair
Market Value per Share on the Offering Commencement Date, or if such date is not a trading day, then on the next trading day thereafter or (2) the Fair Market Value per Share on the Offering Termination Date, or if such date is not a trading
day, then on the trading day immediately preceding the Offering Termination Date.    (cc)   Shares   means shares of Comcast
Corporation Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01.    (dd)
    Successor-in-Interest     means the Participant s executor or administrator, or such other person or entity to which the Participant s rights
under the Plan shall have passed by will or the laws of descent and distribution.    (ee)   Terminating Event   means any of
the following events:    (1) the liquidation of the Company; or  
 (2) a Change of Control.    (ff)
  Third Party   means any Person, together with such Person s Affiliates, provided that the term  Third Party  shall not include the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.  
 (gg)   Termination Form   means the written or electronic form acceptable to the Committee which an Employee shall use to
discontinue participation during an Offering Period pursuant to Paragraph 7(b).      

3.  
   Eligibility and Participation .       (a)  Eligibility . Except to the extent
participation is restricted under Paragraph 3(b), each Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.    (b)
 Restrictions on Participation . Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, no Employee shall be eligible to purchase Shares in an Offering to the extent that:  
 (1) immediately after the purchase of Shares, such Employee would be a Five Percent Owner; or  
 (2) a purchase of Shares would permit such Employee s rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans of the
Participating Companies which meet the requirements of section 423(b) of the Code to accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000 in fair market value (as determined pursuant to section 423(b)(8) of the Code) for each calendar year in which such right to
purchase Shares is outstanding.    (c)  Commencement of Participation . An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant by completing
an Election Form and filing it with the Committee on or before the 15th day of the month immediately preceding the Offering Commencement Date for the first Offering to which such Election Form applies. Payroll Deductions for a Participant shall
commence on first payroll period ending after the applicable Offering Commencement Date when his or her authorization for Payroll Deductions becomes effective, and shall end on the Plan Termination Date, unless sooner terminated by the Participant
pursuant to Paragraph 7(b).  
      -4-  

4.  
   Shares Per Offering .       The Plan shall be implemented by a series of Offerings that
shall commence after Offerings have been authorized by the Board or the Committee, and terminate on the Plan Termination Date. Offerings shall be made with respect to Compensation accumulated during each Offering Period for the period commencing
with the first day of the first Offering Period (when such Offering Period is authorized by the Board or the Committee) and ending with the Plan Termination Date. Shares available for any Offering shall be the difference between the maximum number
of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, as determined pursuant to Paragraph 8(a), for all of the Offerings, less the actual number of Shares purchased by Participants pursuant to prior Offerings, provided that the maximum number of Shares
subject to purchase by any Participant for any Offering Period shall not exceed 1,500. If the total number of Shares subject to purchase under the Plan on any Offering Termination Date exceeds the maximum number of Shares available, the Board or the
Committee shall make a pro rata allocation of Shares available for delivery and distribution in as nearly a uniform manner as practicable, and as it shall determine to be fair and equitable, and the unapplied Account balances shall be returned to
Participants as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination Date.      

5.  
   Payroll Deductions .       (a)  Amount of Payroll Deductions . On the Election
Form, an Eligible Employee may elect to have Payroll Deductions of not more than 10 percent of Compensation earned for each payroll period ending within the Offering Period, subject to the limitation that the maximum amount of Payroll Deductions for
any Eligible Employee for any calendar year shall not exceed $21,250. The rules established by the Committee regarding Payroll Deductions, as reflected on the Election Form, shall be consistent with section 423(b)(5) of the Code.  
 (b)  Participants  Accounts . All Payroll Deductions with respect to a Participant pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) shall be credited to
the Participant s Account under the Plan.    (c)  Changes in Payroll Deductions . A Participant may discontinue Payroll Deductions
during an Offering Period by providing a Termination Form to the Committee at any time before the Offering Termination Date applicable to any Offering. No other change can be made during an Offering, including, but not limited to, changes in the
amount of Payroll Deductions for such Offering. A Participant may change the amount of Payroll Deductions for subsequent Offerings by giving written notice (or notice in another form pursuant to procedures established by the Committee) of such
change to the Committee on or before the 15th day of the month immediately preceding the Offering Commencement Date for the Offering for which such change is effective.      

6.  
   Purchase of Shares .       (a)  In General . On each Offering Termination Date,
each Participant shall be deemed to have purchased a number of whole Shares equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the  
      -5-  

balance credited to the Participant s Account as of the Offering Termination Date, by the Purchase Price, rounded to the next lowest whole Share. Shares deemed purchased by a Participant
under the Plan shall be credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination Date.  
 (b)  Terminating Events . The Company shall give Participants at least 30 days  notice (or, if not practicable, such shorter notice
as may be reasonably practicable) prior to the anticipated date of the consummation of a Terminating Event. The 20th day following the issuance of such notice by the Company (or such earlier date as the Board or the Committee may reasonably
determine) shall constitute the Offering Termination Date for any outstanding Offering.    (c)  Fractional Shares and Participant
Refunds . Fractional Shares shall not be issued under the Plan. Amounts credited to an Account remaining after the application of such Account to the purchase of Shares for any Offering Period, including amounts that remain credited to an Account
after the application of Paragraph 3(b)(2), shall be:    (1) credited to the Participant s Account for the next succeeding Offering,
provided that the Participant continues to be an Eligible Employee and elects to participate in such next succeeding Offering; or    (2)
returned to the Participant as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination Date, without interest, if the Participant is not an Eligible Employee for the next succeeding Offering, or if the Participant fails to elect to participate in
such next succeeding Offering.    (d)  Transferability of Rights to Purchase Shares . No right to purchase Shares pursuant to the Plan
shall be transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and no such right to purchase Shares pursuant to the Plan shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime other than by the Participant.  

7.  
   Termination of Participation  .        (a)  Account . Except as provided in
Paragraph 7(c), no amounts shall be distributed from Participants  Accounts during an Offering Period.    (b)  Suspension of
Participation . A Participant may discontinue Payroll Deductions during an Offering Period by providing a Termination Form to the Committee at any time before the Offering Termination Date applicable to any Offering, provided that a
Participant s Payroll Deductions shall be discontinued to the extent required in connection with a Participant s hardship withdrawal under the rules of the Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan or any other plan, program or
arrangement pursuant to which discontinuance of contributions to the Plan may be required in connection with a Participant s hardship withdrawal. All amounts credited to such Participant s Account shall be applied to the purchase of Shares
pursuant to Paragraph 6. A Participant who discontinues Payroll Deductions during an Offering Period by providing a Termination Form shall be eligible to participate in the Offering next following the date on which the Participant delivers the
Termination Form to the Committee. A Participant whose Payroll Deductions are suspended during an Offering Period because of a hardship  
      -6-  

withdrawal under the rules of the Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan or any other plan, program or arrangement pursuant to which discontinuance of contributions to the Plan may be
required in connection with a Participant s hardship withdrawal shall automatically resume Payroll Deductions at the rate in effect immediately before the suspension for the next Offering Period that commences after the conclusion of the
suspension, unless the Participant elects otherwise.    (c)  Termination of Employment . Upon termination of a
Participant s employment for any reason, all amounts credited to such Participant s Account shall be returned to the Participant, or, following the Participant s death, to the Participant s Successor   -in-Interest.        
   No interest shall be paid or allowed with respect to Payroll
Deductions paid into the Plan or credited to any Participant s Account.      
   (a)  Maximum Number of Shares; Adjustments . Subject to adjustment
as provided in this Paragraph 9, not more than 35,500,000 Shares in the aggregate may be issued pursuant to the Plan pursuant to Offerings under the Plan, including Offerings commenced since the Plan first became effective as the Comcast
Corporation 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Shares delivered pursuant to the Plan may, at the Company s option, be either treasury Shares or Shares originally issued for such purpose. In the event that Shares are changed into or exchanged
for a different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock  split-up  or other
substitution of securities of the Company, the Board or the Committee shall make appropriate equitable  anti-dilution  adjustments to the number and class of shares of stock available for issuance under the
Plan, to the number and class of shares of stock subject to outstanding Offerings and to the Purchase Price. Any reference to the Purchase Price in the Plan and in any related documents shall be a reference to the Purchase Price as so adjusted. Any
reference to the term  Shares  in the Plan and in any related documents shall be a reference to the appropriate number and class of shares of stock available for issuance under the Plan, as adjusted pursuant to this Paragraph 9. The
Board s or the Committee s adjustment shall be effective and binding for all purposes of this Plan. All Shares issued pursuant to the Plan shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.  
 (b)  Participant s Interest in Shares . A Participant shall have no interest in Shares offered under the Plan until Shares are
credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account.    (c)  Crediting of Shares to Brokerage Account . Shares purchased under the
Plan shall be credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination Date.    (d)
 Restrictions on Purchase . The Board or the Committee may, in its discretion, require as conditions to the purchase of any Shares under the Plan such conditions as it may deem necessary to assure that such purchase of Shares is in compliance
with applicable securities laws.  
      -7-  

(e)  Restrictions on Sale of Shares . The Board or the Committee may, in its discretion,
require as conditions to the sale of any Shares credited to Participants  Brokerage Accounts under the Plan (i) such conditions as it may deem necessary to assure that such sale of Shares is in compliance with applicable securities laws
and (ii) a minimum holding period (not to exceed one year) following the purchase of Shares before Shares credited to Participants  Brokerage Accounts may be sold or otherwise transferred, provided that such holding period, if any, shall
not apply to Shares credited to the Brokerage Account of a Participant who has terminated employment on account of death or disability.      
   The Participating Companies shall pay all fees and expenses incurred
(excluding individual Federal, state, local or other taxes) in connection with the Plan. No charge or deduction for any such expenses will be made to a Participant upon the termination of his or her participation under the Plan or upon the
distribution of certificates representing Shares purchased with his or her Payroll Deductions.      
   The Participating Companies shall have the right to withhold from each
Participant s Compensation an amount equal to all federal, state, city or other taxes as the Participating Companies shall determine are required to be withheld by them in connection with the purchase of Shares under the Plan and in connection
with the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. In connection with such withholding, the Participating Companies may make any such arrangements as they may deem necessary or appropriate to protect their interests.  

12.  
   Plan and Contributions Not to Affect Employment .       The Plan shall not confer upon
any Eligible Employee any right to continue in the employ of the Participating Companies.      
   The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Board and
the Committee shall have authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to it, and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable in administering the Plan, with or without the advice
of counsel. The Committee may delegate its administrative duties, subject to its review and supervision, to the appropriate officers and employees of the Company. The determinations of the Board and the Committee on the matters referred to in this
Paragraph 13 shall be conclusive and binding.      

14.  
   Amendment and Termination .       The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan at
any time and may amend the Plan from time to time in any respect; provided, however, that upon any termination of the Plan, all Shares or Payroll Deductions (to the extent not yet applied to the purchase of Shares) under the Plan shall be
distributed to the Participants, provided further, that no amendment to the Plan shall affect the right of any Participant to receive his or her proportionate interest in the Shares or his  
      -8-  

or her Payroll Deductions (to the extent not yet applied to the purchase of Shares) under the Plan, and provided further that the Company may seek shareholder approval of an amendment to the Plan
if such approval is determined to be required by or advisable under the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Internal Revenue Service, the rules of any stock exchange or system on which the Shares are listed or other
applicable law or regulation.      
   The original effective date of the Plan was December 20,
2000. The effective date of this amendment and restatement of the Plan is January 1, 2016.      

16.  
   Government and Other Regulations .       (a)  In General . The purchase of Shares
under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies as may be required.  
 (b)  Securities Law . The Committee shall have the power to make each Offering under the Plan subject to such conditions as it deems
necessary or appropriate to comply with the  then-existing  requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including Rule  16b-3  (or any similar rule) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.      
   No Participant shall be
permitted to assign, alienate, sell, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber his right to purchase Shares under the Plan prior to time that Shares are credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account. Any attempt at assignment, alienation, sale,
transfer, pledge or other encumbrance shall be void and of no effect.      
   Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be sufficiently given
only if delivered personally, telecopied, or sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, and addressed:     If to the Company :  
 Comcast Corporation    One Comcast
Center    1701 JFK Boulevard  
 Philadelphia, PA 19103    Fax:   215-286-7794      Attention: General Counsel  
 Or any other address provided pursuant to notice provided by the Committee.  
      -9-  

If to the Participant :  
 At the address on file with the Participating Company from time to time, or to such other address as either party may hereafter designate in
writing (or via such other means of communication permitted by the Committee) by notice similarly given by one party to the other.      
   The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any
successors or assigns of the Company.      
   If any part of this Plan shall be determined to be invalid or void
in any respect, such determination shall not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Plan which shall continue in full force and effect.      
   The election by any Eligible Employee to participate in this Plan
constitutes his or her acceptance of the terms of the Plan and his or her agreement to be bound hereby.      
   This Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to the extent not preempted by applicable Federal law.    Executed on the 14 th  day of October, 2015.       

COMCAST CORPORATION   

BY:  
   
   /s/ David L. Cohen   

ATTEST:  
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   

-10-  

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 5
 d49239dex1015.htm
 EX-10.15

EX-10.15 

Exhibit 10.15   
  COMCAST-NBCUNIVERSAL   
  2011 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN       
   COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation, hereby amends and
restates the Comcast-NBCUniversal 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan is intended to encourage and facilitate the purchase of shares of common stock of Comcast Corporation by Eligible Employees of NBCUniversal and any
Participating Companies, thereby providing such Eligible Employees with a personal stake in the Company and a long-range inducement to remain in the employ of NBCUniversal and Participating Companies. It is the intention of the Company that the Plan
not qualify as an  employee stock purchase plan  within the meaning of section 423 of the Code.      

2.  
   Definitions .       (a)   Account   means a bookkeeping account
established by the Committee on behalf of a Participant to hold Payroll Deductions.    (b)   Affiliate   means, with respect
to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term  control,  including its correlative terms
 controlled by  and  under common control with,  mean, with respect to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.    (c)   Board   means the Board of Directors of the
Company.    (d)   Brokerage Account   means the brokerage account established under the Plan by the Company for each
Participant, to which Shares purchased under the Plan shall be credited.    (e)   Change of Control   means any transaction
or series of transactions as a result of which any Person who was a Third Party immediately before such transaction or series of transactions owns then-outstanding securities of the Company such that such Person has the ability to direct the
management of the Company, as determined by the Board in its discretion. The Board may also determine that a Change of Control shall occur upon the completion of one or more proposed transactions. The Board s determination shall be
final and binding.    (f)   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  
 (g)   Comcast Group   means the Company and any Affiliate of the Company.  
 (h)   Committee   means the Compensation Committee of the Board or its delegate.  
 (i)   Company   means Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, including any successor thereto by merger,
consolidation, acquisition of all or substantially all the assets thereof, or otherwise.  

(j)   Compensation   means an Eligible Employee s wages as
reported on Form  W-2  ( i.e. , wages as defined in section 3401(a) of the Code and all other payments of compensation for which the Participating Company is required to furnish the employee a written
statement under sections 6041(d) and 6051(a)(3) of the Code) from a Participating Company, reduced by reimbursements or other expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash and non-cash), moving expenses, deferred compensation, and welfare benefits, but
including salary reduction contributions and elective contributions that are not includible in gross income under sections 125 or 402(a)(8) of the Code.  
 (k)   Effective Date   means the effective date referenced in Paragraph 15.  
 (l)   Election Form   means the written or electronic form acceptable to the Committee which an Eligible Employee shall use to
make an election to purchase Shares through Payroll Deductions pursuant to the Plan.    (m)   Eligible Employee   means an
Employee who is not an Ineligible Employee.    (n)   Eligible Employer   means NBCUniversal and any Subsidiary of
NBCUniversal other than:    (1) a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States of America,
other than a Subsidiary referenced pursuant to Section 2(p)(1)(iii); or    (2) except as otherwise provided by the Committee, a
Subsidiary that is a  Participating Company  as defined in the Comcast Corporation 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.    (o)
  Employee   means any employee who is employed by a Participating Company and designated on the books and records of such Participating Company as an employee, provided that the term  Employee  shall not include:  
 (1) an individual covered by a collective bargaining agreement, unless such agreement specifically provides for participation hereunder;  
 (2) except as otherwise provided by Paragraph 2(q)(1)(iii), an individual who is not on a United States employee payroll of a Participating
Company or an individual with respect to whom the Participating Company does not report such individual s compensation as wages on Form W-2;  
 (3) an individual who has entered into an agreement with a Participating Company which excludes such individual from participation in employee
benefit plans of a Participating Company (whether or not such individual is treated or classified as an employee for certain specified purposes that do not include eligibility to participate in the Plan); and  
      -2-  

(4) an individual who is not classified by the Participating Company as an employee, even if such
individual is retroactively re-characterized as an employee by a third party or a Participating Company.    (p)   Fair Market
Value   means the closing price per Share on the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or traded on any such exchange, on the National Market System of the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System ( NASDAQ ), or if not listed or traded on any such exchange or system, the fair market value as reasonably determined by the Board or the Committee, which determination shall be
conclusive.    (q)   Ineligible Employee   means:  
 (1) For an employee of any Participating Employer other than Universal Orlando, an Employee who, as of an Offering Commencement Date:  
 i. has been continuously employed by the Comcast Group on a  full-time  basis for less than 90 days;
   ii. has been continuously employed by the Comcast Group on a  part-time  basis for less than one
year;    iii. except as otherwise provided by the Committee, an employee who is (i) employed by a Subsidiary that is organized under
the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States of America or (ii) whose principal work location is outside of the United States; or  
 iv. is an individual whose employment is classified by the Participating Company to which such individual is employed as an internship, or as
 temporary  or  intermittent,  all in accordance with uniformly applied personnel policies.    For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q)(1),
an employee is employed on a  part-time  basis if the Employee customarily works less than 20 hours per week. For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q), an Employee is employed on a  full-time  basis if the Employee customarily works 20 or more hours per week.    (2) For an employee of
Universal Orlando, an employee who, as of an Offering Commencement Date:    i. has been continuously employed by the Comcast Group on a  full-time  basis for less than 90 days;    ii. has been continuously employed by the Comcast Group on a  part-time  basis for less than one year;    iii. except as otherwise provided by the Committee, an
employee who is (i) employed by a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States of America or (ii) whose principal work location is outside of the United States; or  
      -3-  

iv. is an individual whose employment is classified by the Participating Company to which such
individual is employed as an internship, or as  temporary,   intermittent  or  seasonal,  all in accordance with uniformly applied personnel policies.  
 For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q)(2), an employee is employed on a part-time basis if Universal Orlando has classified the Employee as a  Casual
Employee.  For purposes of this Paragraph 2(q)(2) an Employee is employed on a full-time basis if Universal Orlando has classified the Employee as a Regular Employee.  
 (r)   NBCUniversal   means NBCUniversal, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.  
 (s)   Offering   means an offering of Shares by the Company to Eligible Employees pursuant to the Plan.  
 (t)   Offering Commencement Date   means the first day of each January 1, April 1, July 1 and
October 1 beginning on or after July 1, 2011 until the Plan Termination Date.    (u)   Offering Period   means the
period extending from an Offering Commencement Date through the following Offering Termination Date.    (v)   Offering Termination
Date   means the last day of each March, June, September and December following an Offering Commencement Date, or such other Offering Termination Date established in connection with a Terminating Event.  
 (w)   Participant   means an Eligible Employee who has timely delivered an Election Form to the Committee in accordance with
procedures established by the Committee.    (x)   Participating Company   means all Eligible Employers except such Eligible
Employers as may be designated for exclusion by the Board or the Committee from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may delegate its authority to exclude an Eligible Employer from being a Participating Company
under this Paragraph 2(x) to an officer of the Company or committee of two or more officers of the Company.    (y)   Payroll
Deductions   means amounts withheld from a Participant s Compensation pursuant to the Plan, as described in Paragraph 5.    (z)
  Person   means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization.  
 (aa)   Plan   means the Comcast-NBCUniversal 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as set forth in this document, and as may be
amended from time to time.    (bb)   Plan Termination Date   means the earliest of:  
 (1) the Offering Termination Date for the Offering in which the maximum number of Shares specified in Paragraph 9 have been issued pursuant to
the Plan; or  
      -4-  

(2) the date as of which the Board or the Committee chooses to terminate the Plan as provided in
Paragraph 14.    (cc)   Purchase Price   means 85 percent of the lesser of: (1) the Fair Market Value per Share on the
Offering Commencement Date, or if such date is not a trading day, then on the next trading day thereafter or (2) the Fair Market Value per Share on the Offering Termination Date, or if such date is not a trading day, then on the trading day
immediately preceding the Offering Termination Date.    (dd)   Shares   means shares of Comcast Corporation Class A
Common Stock, par value $0.01.    (ee)   Subsidiary   means any Affiliate of NBCUniversal that is controlled by NBCUniversal.
   (ff)     Successor-in-Interest     means the
Participant s executor or administrator, or such other person or entity to which the Participant s rights under the Plan shall have passed by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  
 (gg)   Terminating Event   means any of the following events:  
 (1) the liquidation of the Company; or  
 (2) a Change of Control.    (hh)
  Third Party   means any Person, together with such Person s Affiliates, provided that the term  Third Party  shall not include the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.  
 (ii)   Termination Form   means the written or electronic form acceptable to the Committee which an Employee shall use to
discontinue participation during an Offering Period pursuant to Paragraph 7(b).    (jj)   Universal Orlando   means Universal
City Development Partners, Ltd. and its subsidiaries.      

3.  
   Eligibility and Participation .       (a)  Eligibility . Except to the extent
participation is restricted under Paragraph 3(b), each Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.    (b)
 Restrictions on Participation . Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, no Employee shall be eligible to purchase Shares in an Offering to the extent that a purchase would permit such Employee s rights to purchase
stock under this Plan, after taking into account such Employee s purchases under the Comcast Corporation 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, if any, to accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000 in fair market value (as determined on the same basis
as if this Plan were subject to section 423(b)(8) of the Code) for each calendar year in which such right to purchase Shares is outstanding.  
      -5-  

(c)  Commencement of Participation . An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant by
completing an Election Form and filing it with the Committee on or before the 15th day of the month immediately preceding the Offering Commencement Date for the first Offering to which such Election Form applies. Payroll Deductions for a Participant
shall commence on the first payroll period ending after the applicable Offering Commencement Date when his or her authorization for Payroll Deductions becomes effective, and shall end on the Plan Termination Date, unless sooner terminated by the
Participant pursuant to Paragraph 7(b).      

4.  
   Shares Per Offering .       The Plan shall be implemented by a series of Offerings that
shall commence after Offerings have been authorized by the Board or the Committee, and terminate on the Plan Termination Date. Offerings shall be made with respect to Compensation accumulated during each Offering Period for the period commencing
with the first day of the first Offering Period (when such Offering Period is authorized by the Board or the Committee) and ending with the Plan Termination Date. Shares available for any Offering shall be the difference between the maximum number
of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, as determined pursuant to Paragraph 9(a), for all of the Offerings, less the actual number of Shares purchased by Participants pursuant to prior Offerings, provided that the maximum number of Shares
subject to purchase by any Participant for any Offering Period shall not exceed 1,500. If the total number of Shares subject to purchase under the Plan on any Offering Termination Date exceeds the maximum number of Shares available, the Board or the
Committee shall make a pro rata allocation of Shares available for delivery and distribution in as nearly a uniform manner as practicable, and as it shall determine to be fair and equitable, and the unapplied Account balances shall be returned to
Participants as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination Date.      

5.  
   Payroll Deductions .       (a)  Amount of Payroll Deductions . On the Election
Form, an Eligible Employee may elect to have Payroll Deductions of not more than 10 percent of Compensation earned for each payroll period ending within the Offering Period, subject to the limitation that the maximum amount of Payroll Deductions for
any Eligible Employee for any calendar year (including, for this purpose, any payroll deductions for such calendar year pursuant to the Comcast Corporation 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, if any) shall not exceed $21,250, or, with respect to
Participants whose compensation is denominated in currency other than United States dollars, if any, the equivalent amount as denominated in such local currency, as determined by the Committee.  
 (b)  Participants  Accounts . All Payroll Deductions with respect to a Participant pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) shall be credited to
the Participant s Account under the Plan.    (c)  Changes in Payroll Deductions . A Participant may discontinue Payroll Deductions
during an Offering Period by providing a Termination Form to the Committee at any time before the Offering Termination Date applicable to any Offering. No other change can be made during an Offering, including, but not limited to, changes in the
amount of Payroll  
      -6-  

Deductions for such Offering. A Participant may change the amount of Payroll Deductions for subsequent Offerings by giving written notice (or notice in another form pursuant to procedures
established by the Committee) of such change to the Committee on or before the 15th day of the month immediately preceding the Offering Commencement Date for the Offering for which such change is effective.  

6.  
   Purchase of Shares .       (a)  In General . On each Offering Termination Date,
each Participant shall be deemed to have purchased a number of whole Shares equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the balance credited to the Participant s Account as of the Offering Termination Date, by the Purchase Price, rounded to the
next lowest whole Share. Shares deemed purchased by a Participant under the Plan (net of Shares withheld under Paragraph 11) shall be credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination
Date.    (b)  Terminating Events . The Company shall give Participants at least 30 days  notice (or, if not practicable, such
shorter notice as may be reasonably practicable) prior to the anticipated date of the consummation of a Terminating Event. The 20th day following the issuance of such notice by the Company (or such earlier date as the Board or the Committee may
reasonably determine) shall constitute the Offering Termination Date for any outstanding Offering.    (c)  Fractional Shares and
Participant Refunds . Fractional Shares shall not be issued under the Plan. Amounts credited to an Account remaining after the application of such Account to the purchase of Shares for any Offering Period, including amounts that remain credited
to an Account after the application of the limit described in Paragraph 3(b), shall, to the extent not applied to pay withholding taxes under Paragraph 11, be:  
 (1) credited to the Participant s Account for the next succeeding Offering, provided that the Participant continues to be an Eligible
Employee and elects to participate in such next succeeding Offering; or    (2) returned to the Participant as soon as practicable following
the Offering Termination Date, without interest, if the Participant is not an Eligible Employee for the next succeeding Offering, or if the Participant fails to elect to participate in such next succeeding Offering.  
 (d)  Transferability of Rights to Purchase Shares . No right to purchase Shares pursuant to the Plan shall be transferable other than by
will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and no such right to purchase Shares pursuant to the Plan shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime other than by the Participant.  

7.  
   Termination of Participation  .        (a)  Account . Except as provided in
Paragraph 7(c), no amounts shall be distributed from Participants  Accounts during an Offering Period.  
      -7-  

(b)  Suspension of Participation . A Participant may discontinue Payroll Deductions during
an Offering Period by providing a Termination Form to the Committee at any time before the Offering Termination Date applicable to any Offering, provided that a Participant s Payroll Deductions shall be discontinued to the extent required in
connection with a Participant s hardship withdrawal under the rules of the NBCUniversal Capital Accumulation Plan, the Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan or any other plan, program or arrangement pursuant to which discontinuance of
contributions to the Plan may be required in connection with a Participant s hardship withdrawal. All amounts credited to such Participant s Account shall be applied to the purchase of Shares pursuant to Paragraph 6. A Participant who
discontinues Payroll Deductions during an Offering Period by providing a Termination Form shall be eligible to participate in the Offering next following the date on which the Participant delivers the Termination Form to the Committee. A Participant
(other than a Participant whose payroll is administered by Universal Orlando) whose Payroll Deductions are suspended during an Offering Period because of a hardship withdrawal under the rules of the NBCUniversal Capital Accumulation Plan, the
Comcast Corporation Retirement-Investment Plan or any other plan, program or arrangement pursuant to which discontinuance of contributions to the Plan may be required in connection with a Participant s hardship withdrawal shall automatically
resume Payroll Deductions at the rate in effect immediately before the suspension for the next Offering Period that commences after the conclusion of the suspension, unless the Participant elects otherwise.  
 (c)  Termination of Employment . Upon termination of a Participant s employment for any reason, all amounts credited to such
Participant s Account shall be returned to the Participant, or, following the Participant s death, to the Participant s Successor-in-Interest.      
   No interest shall be paid or allowed with respect to Payroll
Deductions paid into the Plan or credited to any Participant s Account.      
   (a)  Maximum Number of Shares; Adjustments . Subject to
adjustment as provided in this Paragraph 9, not more than 4,600,000 Shares in the aggregate may be issued pursuant to the Plan pursuant to Offerings under the Plan. Shares delivered pursuant to the Plan may, at the Company s option,
be either treasury Shares or Shares originally issued for such purpose. In the event that Shares are changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the Company, whether through merger,
consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock  split-up  or other substitution of securities of the Company, the Board or the Committee shall make appropriate equitable  anti-dilution  adjustments to the number and class of shares of stock available for issuance under the Plan, to the number and class of shares of stock subject to outstanding Offerings and to the Purchase Price. Any
reference to the Purchase Price in the Plan and in any related documents shall be a reference to the Purchase Price as so adjusted. Any reference to the term  Shares  in the Plan and in any
 
      -8-  

related documents shall be a reference to the appropriate number and class of shares of stock available for issuance under the Plan, as adjusted pursuant to this Paragraph 9. The Board s or
the Committee s adjustment shall be effective and binding for all purposes of this Plan. All Shares issued pursuant to the Plan shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.  
 (b)  Participant s Interest in Shares . A Participant shall have no interest in Shares offered under the Plan until Shares are
credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account.    (c)  Crediting of Shares to Brokerage Account . Shares purchased under the
Plan shall be credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account as soon as practicable following the Offering Termination Date.    (d)
 Restrictions on Purchase . The Board or the Committee may, in its discretion, require as conditions to the purchase of any Shares under the Plan such conditions as it may deem necessary to assure that such purchase of Shares is in compliance
with applicable securities laws.    (e)  Restrictions on Sale of Shares . The Board or the Committee may, in its discretion, require as
conditions to the sale of any Shares credited to Participants  Brokerage Accounts under the Plan (i) such conditions as it may deem necessary to assure that such sale of Shares is in compliance with applicable securities laws and
(ii) a minimum holding period (not to exceed one year) following the purchase of Shares before Shares credited to Participants  Brokerage Accounts may be sold or otherwise transferred, provided that such holding period, if any, shall not
apply to Shares applied to pay withholding taxes pursuant to Paragraph 11 or to Shares credited to the Brokerage Account of a Participant who has terminated employment on account of death or disability.  
   
   The Participating Companies shall pay all fees and expenses incurred
(excluding individual Federal, state, local or other taxes) in connection with the Plan. No charge or deduction for any such expenses will be made to a Participant upon the termination of his or her participation under the Plan or upon the
distribution of certificates representing Shares purchased with his or her Payroll Deductions.      
   The Participating Companies shall have the right to withhold from each
Participant s Compensation an amount equal to all federal, state, city or other taxes as the Participating Companies shall determine are required to be withheld by them in connection with the purchase of Shares under the Plan and in connection
with the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. The Company s obligation to make any delivery or transfer of Shares shall be conditioned on the Participant s compliance, to the Company s satisfaction, with any withholding
requirement.  
      -9-  

Any tax liabilities incurred in connection with a Participant s participation in the Plan
may, to the extent such liabilities cannot be satisfied in full by withholding cash payable in connection with a taxable event, be satisfied by withholding a portion of the Shares otherwise creditable under the Plan having a Fair Market Value
approximately equal to the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld under applicable law.      

12.  
   Plan and Contributions Not to Affect Employment .       The Plan shall not confer upon
any Eligible Employee any right to continue in the employ of the Participating Companies.      
   The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Board and
the Committee shall have authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to it, and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable in administering the Plan, with or without the advice
of counsel. The Committee may delegate its administrative duties, subject to its review and supervision, to the appropriate officers and employees of the Company. The determinations of the Board and the Committee on the matters referred to in this
Paragraph 13 shall be conclusive and binding.      

14.  
   Amendment and Termination .       The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan at
any time and may amend the Plan from time to time in any respect; provided, however, that upon any termination of the Plan, all Shares or Payroll Deductions (to the extent not yet applied to the purchase of Shares) under the Plan shall be
distributed to the Participants, provided further, that no amendment to the Plan shall affect the right of any Participant to receive his or her proportionate interest in the Shares or his or her Payroll Deductions (to the extent not yet applied to
the purchase of Shares) under the Plan, provided further that the Company may seek shareholder approval of the Plan or any amendment to the Plan if such approval is determined to be required by or advisable under the regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission or the Internal Revenue Service, the rules of any stock exchange or system on which the Shares are listed or other applicable law or regulation, and provided further that the Board or the Committee may condition the
effectiveness of any Election Form on such shareholder approval.      
   The Plan was originally adopted on January 29, 2011. The
first Offering Period under the Plan commenced on July 1, 2011. The Effective Date of this amendment and restatement of the Plan is January 1, 2016.      

16.  
   Government and Other Regulations .       (a)  In General . The purchase of Shares
under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies as may be required.  
      -10-  

(b)  Securities Law . The Committee shall have the power to make each Offering under the
Plan subject to such conditions as it deems necessary or appropriate to comply with the  then-existing  requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, including Rule  16b-3  (or any similar rule) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.      
   No Participant shall be
permitted to assign, alienate, sell, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber his right to purchase Shares under the Plan prior to time that Shares are credited to the Participant s Brokerage Account. Any attempt at assignment, alienation, sale,
transfer, pledge or other encumbrance shall be void and of no effect.      
   Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be sufficiently given
only if delivered personally, telecopied, or sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, and addressed:     If to the Company :  
 Comcast Corporation    One Comcast
Center    1701 JFK Boulevard  
 Philadelphia, PA 19103    Fax:   215-286-7794      Attention: General Counsel  
 Or any other address provided pursuant to notice provided by the Committee.  
  If to the Participant :  
 At the address on file with the Participating Company from time to time, or to such other address as either party may hereafter designate in
writing (or via such other means of communication permitted by the Committee) by notice similarly given by one party to the other.      
   The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any
successors or assigns of the Company.      
   If any part of this Plan shall be determined to be invalid or void
in any respect, such determination shall not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Plan which shall continue in full force and effect.  
      -11-  

The election by any Eligible Employee to participate in this Plan
constitutes his or her acceptance of the terms of the Plan and his or her agreement to be bound hereby.      
   This Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to the extent not preempted by applicable Federal law.    Executed on the 14 th  day of October, 2015.       

COMCAST CORPORATION   

BY:  
   
   /s/ David L. Cohen   

ATTEST:  
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   

-12-  

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.31>
 6
 d49239dex1031.htm
 EX-10.31

EX-10.31 

Exhibit 10.31   
  AMENDMENT NO. 15 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   
 This AMENDMENT NO. 15 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT is entered as of the 17th day of December, 2015, between COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania
corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the  Company ), and BRIAN L. ROBERTS ( Employee ).    BACKGROUND  
 WHEREAS, the parties entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2005, as amended (the  Agreement ), that sets
forth the terms and conditions of Employee s employment with the Company, and    WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Agreement on
the terms and conditions contained herein.    NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
   1. Subparagraph 5(b) of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following year and amount thereto:  Year   2016; Amount -
$4,020,287.  Employee hereby elects January 2, 2019 as the scheduled payment date with respect to such amount, provided that Employee may elect to postpone such scheduled payment date to the extent permitted under the Company s 2005
Deferred Compensation Plan.    2. Subparagraph 1(c) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety by the following:  
  (c) (i) To the extent any Company Intellectual Property (as defined in subparagraph (iv) below) is not already
owned by the Company as a matter of law or prior written assignment by Employee to the Company, Employee hereby assigns to the Company, and agrees to assign the Company in the future (to the extent required), all right, title and interest that
Employee now has or acquires in the future in and to any and all Company Intellectual Property. Employee shall further cooperate with the Company in obtaining, protecting and enforcing its interests in Company Intellectual Property. Such cooperation
shall be at the Company s expense, and shall include, at the Company s election, without limitation, signing all documents reasonably requested by the Company for patent, copyright and other Intellectual Property (as defined in
subparagraph (iv) below) applications and registrations, and individual assignments thereof, and providing other reasonably requested assistance. Employee s obligation to assist the Company in obtaining, protecting and enforcing Company
Intellectual Property rights shall continue following Employee s employment with the Company, but the Company shall be obliged to compensate Employee at a then prevailing reasonable consulting rate for any time spent and any out-of-pocket
expenses incurred at the Company s request for providing such assistance. Such compensation shall be paid irrespective of, and is not contingent upon, the substance of any testimony Employee may give or provide while assisting the Company.  

(ii) Employee shall use reasonable efforts to promptly disclose to the Company,
or any person(s) designated by the Company, all Intellectual Property that is created, conceived or reduced to practice by Employee, either alone or jointly with others, during the term of Employee s employment with the Company, whether or not
patentable or copyrightable or believed by Employee to be patentable or copyrightable, including without limitation any Intellectual Property (to be held in confidence by the Company) that qualifies fully as a nonassignable invention under
Section 2870 of the California Labor Code ( Nonassignable IP ). If Employee contends that any such Intellectual Property qualifies as Nonassignable IP, Employee will promptly so notify the Company, and Employee agrees to cooperate
fully with a review and verification process by the Company. In addition, Employee will promptly disclose to the Company (to be held in confidence) all patent applications filed by Employee or on his or her behalf within six months after termination
of employment, and to cooperate fully with a review and determination by the Company as to whether such patent applications constitute or include Company Intellectual Property. Employee has reviewed the notification on Schedule 1 and agrees that
Employee s execution hereof acknowledges receipt of such notification.    (iii) In the event that the Company is unable
for any reason whatsoever to secure Employee s signature on any lawful and necessary document to apply for, execute or otherwise further prosecute or register any patent or copyright application or any other Company Intellectual Property
application or registration, Employee hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Company and its duly authorized officers and agents as Employee s agents and attorneys-in-fact to act for and on Employee s behalf and instead of Employee
to execute and file such lawful and necessary documents and to do all other lawfully permitted acts to further prosecute, issue and/or register patents, copyrights and any other Company Intellectual Property rights with the same legal force and
effect as if executed by Employee.    (iv) To the extent any materials, including written, graphic or computer programmed
materials, authored, prepared, contributed to or written by Employee, in whole or in part, during the term of employment by the Company and relating in whole or in part to the business, products, services, research or development of the Company
qualify as  work made for hire,  as such term is defined and used in the copyright laws of the United States, then such materials shall be done by Employee as  work made for hire  under such law.  
 (v) Intellectual Property  means any and all ideas, inventions, formulae, knowhow, trade secrets, devices, designs,
models, methods, techniques, processes, specifications, tooling, computer programs, software code, works of authorship, copyrighted and copyrightable works, mask works, trademarks and service marks, Internet domain names, technical and product
information, patents  
      2  

and patent applications, and any other intellectual property rights or applications, throughout the world.  Company Intellectual Property  means any Intellectual Property created,
fixed, conceived or reduced to practice, in whole or in part, by Employee, either alone or jointly with others, whether or not such Intellectual Property is patentable or copyrightable, either: (A) that relates to the Company s current or
planned businesses or is created, etc. in the performance of the Employee s duties; (B) that is created, etc. during working hours; or (C) that is created, etc. using the Company s information, facilities, equipment or other
assets.  Company Intellectual Property  does not include Nonassignable IP.     3. Except as modified hereby, the Agreement
shall continue unmodified and in full force and effect.    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Amendment
No. 15 as of the date first-above written.       

3  

SCHEDULE 1   
  LIMITED EXCLUSION NOTIFICATION      THIS
IS TO NOTIFY  Employee in accordance with Section 2872 of the California Labor Code that this Agreement does not require Employee to assign or offer to assign to the Company any invention that Employee developed entirely on Employee s
own time without using the Company s equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret information except for those inventions that either:      

1. 
 Relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to the Company s business, or actual demonstrably anticipated research or development of the Company; or    

2. 
 Result from any work performed by you for the Company.      To the extent a provision in this Agreement purports
to require Employee to assign an invention otherwise excluded by the preceding paragraph, the provision is against the public policy of the State of California and is unenforceable therein.  
 This limited exclusion does not apply to any patent or invention covered by a contract between the Company and the United States or any of its agencies
requiring full title to such patent or invention to be in the United States.  
      4  

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.66>
 7
 d49239dex1066.htm
 EX-10.66

EX-10.66 

Exhibit 10.66   
  SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT   
 dated as of November 24, 2015  
 and effective as of January 1, 2016  
 among     ATAIROS GROUP,
INC. ,       as the Company,  
  COMCAST AG HOLDINGS, LLC ,     
 as a Shareholder,     ATAIROS
PARTNERS, L.P. ,       as a Shareholder,  
  ATAIROS MANAGEMENT, L.P. ,     
 as the Manager,    and  
 solely for purposes of the Comcast Provisions,  
  COMCAST CORPORATION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

i  

ii  

Schedule I  
   
   Capitalization; Capital Commitments  

Schedule II  
   
   Comcast Core Business Exclusions  

Schedule III  
   
   Cash Management Policy  

Schedule IV  
   
   Strategic Co-Investor Exclusions  

iii  

SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT   
 SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ) dated as of November 24, 2015 and effective as of January 1, 2016 among
(i) Atairos Group, Inc., a Cayman Islands exempted company (the   Company  ), (ii) Comcast AG Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (  Comcast Shareholder  ), (iii) Atairos Partners, L.P., a
Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership (  ManagementCo Shareholder  ), (iv) Atairos Management, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the   Manager  ), and (v) solely for purposes of the Comcast
Provisions, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (  Comcast  ).     W I T N E S S E T H :   
 WHEREAS, on the date hereof, the Company is issuing to Comcast Shareholder and ManagementCo Shareholder Company Securities in the amounts set
forth on  Schedule I ;    WHEREAS, on the date hereof, the Company and the Manager are entering into the Management Agreement pursuant
to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, (i) the Company is appointing the Manager to act as the manager of the Company to the extent contemplated by the Management Agreement and (ii) in exchange for the management
services provided by the Manager to the Company pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Company will pay to the Manager the Management Fee; and  
 WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to enter into this Agreement to govern certain of their rights, duties and obligations.  
 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
 ARTICLE 1  
 D EFINITIONS   
 Section 1.01.  Definitions.    
 (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings:  
   Advisers Act   means the U.S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  
   Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under
common control with such Person;  provided  that, for the avoidance of doubt, (i) neither Comcast Shareholder nor any of its Affiliates shall be deemed an  Affiliate  of any of the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager
or any of their respective Affiliates and (ii) none of the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager or any of their respective Affiliates shall be  

deemed an  Affiliate  of Comcast Shareholder or any of its Affiliates;  provided ,  further , that no Portfolio Company, Subsidiary of any Portfolio Company or Affiliate of
any Portfolio Company which is controlled by such Portfolio Company shall be an Affiliate of the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager or any of their respective Affiliates. For the purpose of this definition, the term  control 
(including, with correlative meanings, the terms  controlling ,  controlled by  and  under common control with ), as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct
or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.  
   Alternative Investment Vehicle   means any Person formed for the purpose of making any Investment in accordance with Section
2.02(b).      Applicable Law   means, with respect to any Person, any transnational, domestic or foreign federal, state or
local (statutory, common or otherwise) constitution, treaty, convention, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling or other similar requirement enacted, adopted, promulgated or applied by a Governmental Authority
(including, for the avoidance of doubt, consent decrees, commitments, conditions and other similar obligations) that is binding upon or applicable to such Person.  
   Available Capital Commitment   means, with respect to any Shareholder at any time, the excess, if any, of (a) such
Shareholder s Capital Commitment at such time over (b) such Shareholder s aggregate Capital Contributions made prior to such time (including Capital Contributions to fund Company Expenses, but excluding Capital Contributions made by
Comcast Shareholder to fund the Management Fee), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 6.03.      Available Commitment
Percentage   means, with respect to any Shareholder at any time, the percentage derived by dividing such Shareholder s Available Capital Commitment at such time by the aggregate amount of the Available Capital Commitments of all
Shareholders at such time.      Board   means the board of directors of the Company.  
   Business Day   means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized
by Applicable Law to close.      Capital Commitment   means, with respect to any Shareholder at any time, the amount
specified as such Shareholder s  Capital Commitment  on, and subject to adjustment as provided in,  Schedule I  to this Agreement.  
   Capital Contribution   means, with respect to any Shareholder, the subscription price paid by such Shareholder for additional
Class I Shares to be issued by the Company in respect of an Investment or Company Expense pursuant to Article 6, including, in the case of Comcast Shareholder, in respect of the Management Fee.  
      2  

Carrying Value   means, with respect to any asset of the Company other than
money, such asset s adjusted basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except that:    (i) the initial Carrying Value of any asset
contributed by a Shareholder to the Company shall be the Fair Market Value of such asset on the date of the contribution, as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion;  
 (ii) the Carrying Value of all assets of the Company may be adjusted to equal their respective Fair Market Values pursuant to
Section 8.09;    (iii) as of the date on which any Company asset is distributed to a Shareholder in kind, the Carrying Value of such
asset shall be adjusted to equal the Fair Market Value of such asset on such date, as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion pursuant to Section 8.05(b);  
 (iv) the Carrying Value of an asset shall be adjusted by the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such asset for purposes of
computing Profits and Losses, rather than by the depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery allowable with respect to such asset for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and  
 (v) the Carrying Value of the Company s assets shall be increased (or decreased) to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted basis of such
assets pursuant to Section 734(b) of the Code or Section 743(b) of the Code, but only to the extent that such adjustments are taken into account in determining Capital Account balances pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulations
Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) (m)  and clause (vi) of the definition of  Profits  and  Losses.   
   Cause Event   means the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) a material breach by the Company, ManagementCo
Shareholder or the Manager of its obligations under this Agreement or by the Manager of its obligations under the Management Agreement and, in either case, such breach results in a material adverse effect on the Company and such breach (if capable
of being cured) has not been cured prior to the 10th Business Day following written notice thereof delivered to the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager, as applicable, by Comcast, (ii) the felony conviction (including by plea of no
contest) of the Initial CEO, any successor chief executive officer of the Manager or the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager to a crime constituting fraud or embezzlement, (iii) any act or omission by the Initial CEO, any successor
chief executive officer of the Manager or the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager that results in a material adverse effect on the Company and which act or omission constitutes fraud, willful misconduct or recklessness, or (iv) a
judgment or order (other than any temporary, preliminary or similar injunction, judgment or order) issued by a court or governmental body of competent jurisdiction finding that ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager, the Initial CEO or any successor
chief executive officer of the Manager or the Company has engaged in willful misconduct, fraud or recklessness in connection with the performance of such Person s duties to the Company.  
      3  

Class I Shareholder   means a Shareholder holding Class I Shares.  
   Class I Shares   means Class I-A Shares and Class I-B Shares.  
   Class I-A Shareholder   means a Shareholder holding Class I-A Shares.  
   Class I-A Shares   means the Class I-A Shares, par value US$0.0001 per share, of the Company.  
   Class I-B Shares   means the Class I-B Shares, par value US$0.0001 per share, of the Company.  
   Class II Distribution   means any amount distributed to the holder of Class II Shares pursuant to Section 8.02(e)(ii),
8.02(f) or 8.02(g) or (to the extent attributable to Section 8.02(e)(ii), 8.02(f) or 8.02(g)), Section 11.01(b).      Class II
Shareholder   means the Shareholder holding Class II Shares.      Class II Shares   means the Class II Shares, par
value US$0.0001 per share, of the Company.      Code   means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  
   Comcast Core Business   means a core business of Comcast and its Subsidiaries;  provided  that no business set forth on
Schedule II shall constitute a  Comcast Core Business  (it being understood that the businesses set forth on Schedule II are provided merely as examples of businesses that are not Comcast Core Businesses, and the failure to include any
business on Schedule II does not create any implication that any such omitted business is, or is not, a Comcast Core Business).  
   Comcast Indemnified Party   means any of the following parties: (i) the Comcast Shareholder, (ii) each Affiliate of
the Comcast Shareholder, (iii) each partner, stockholder, member, director, officer, fiduciary, manager, controlling Person, employee and agent of the Comcast Shareholder or any Affiliate of the Comcast Shareholder and (iv) each partner,
stockholder, member, director, officer, fiduciary, manager, controlling Person, employee and agent of any Person specified in clause (iii) of this sentence;  provided ,  however , that any stockholder of Comcast shall not be a Comcast
Indemnified Party if such Person would be a Comcast Indemnified Party solely by reason of such Person s status as a stockholder of Comcast.  
   Comcast Investment Vehicle   means any Alternative Investment Vehicle in which Comcast Shareholder (or any Affiliate thereof)
participates or owns an interest, directly or indirectly.      Comcast Permitted Affiliate Transferee   means Comcast, any
Comcast Successor or any Subsidiary of Comcast or any Comcast Successor.  
      4  

Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee   means any Person to whom Company Securities
are Transferred in connection with a Comcast Spin Transaction;  provided  that such Person has, and demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Manager, the financial wherewithal to honor (i) in the case of a Transfer of all of
Comcast Shareholder s Company Securities to such Person, Comcast Shareholder s obligations under this Agreement and the Memorandum and Articles of Association or (ii) in the case of a Partial Spin Transfer, the obligations of Comcast
Shareholder under this Agreement and the Memorandum and Articles of Association that are indirectly allocated to such Person pursuant to Section 5.03(c)(ii).  
   Comcast Permitted Transferee   means a Comcast Permitted Affiliate Transferee or a Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee.  
   Comcast Provisions   means Sections 10.03, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10 and 10.11 and Article 12.  
   Comcast Shareholder Rights and Obligations   means all rights and obligations that apply to Comcast Shareholder under this
Agreement and the Memorandum and Articles of Association.      Comcast Spin Transaction   means a demerger, spinoff, splitoff
or similar transaction involving the separation of any Comcast businesses by means of a distribution to Comcast shareholders.  
   Comcast Successor   means any entity (i) into which Comcast merges, (ii) to which Comcast transfers all or
substantially all of its assets or (iii) of which Comcast becomes a Subsidiary as part of a reorganization, restructuring or other transaction (or, if such entity has an ultimate parent company, the ultimate parent company of such entity).  
   Commencement Date   means January 1, 2016 or such other date as may be mutually agreed by Comcast and the Manager.  
   Commitment Period   means the period commencing on the Commencement Date and ending on the earlier to occur of (i) the
close of business on the tenth anniversary of the Commencement Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day following the tenth anniversary of the Commencement Date), subject to extension for up to two additional years in the
sole discretion of the Manager by notice to each Shareholder, which notice may not be given earlier than the ninth anniversary of the Commencement Date or later than the nine year and nine month anniversary of the Commencement Date; and
(ii) the early termination of the Commitment Period pursuant to Section 6.01(c).      Communications Act   means
the U.S. Communications Act of 1934, together with the written orders, policies and decisions of the FCC.      Company Debt  
means the aggregate Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries.  
      5  

Company Debt Ratio   means, as of any determination date, the ratio of
(i) the Company Debt as of such date to (ii) the Unreturned Capital Amount as of such date.      Company Entities  
means (i) the Company, (ii) any Comcast Investment Vehicle, (iii) any Subsidiary of the Company or of any Comcast Investment Vehicle, (iv) any Flow-Through Portfolio Company and any of its Subsidiaries that is treated either as a
partnership or a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes and (v) any Consolidated Portfolio Company and any of its Subsidiaries.  
   Company Expenses Drawdown Amount   means the aggregate Capital Contributions to be made by the Shareholders with respect to
Company Expenses in connection with any draw of Capital Contributions pursuant to Article 6.      Company Securities   means
(i) the Class I-A Shares, (ii) the Class I-B Shares and (iii) the Class II Shares.      Consolidated Portfolio
Company   means a Controlled Portfolio Company that is not a Flow-Through Portfolio Company and is required by Applicable Law to be included in a combined, consolidated or unitary tax return with Comcast or any of its Affiliates.  
   Controlled Portfolio Company   means a Portfolio Company if the Company, directly or through one or more Subsidiaries, owns
securities having a majority of the voting power in electing the board of directors (or analogous governing body) of such Portfolio Company or, in the case of a partnership, limited liability company or other similar entity that is not governed by a
board of managers (or analogous governing body), the Company, directly or through one or more Subsidiaries, serves as general partner or managing member of such Portfolio Company.  
   Convertible Security   means any security of a Portfolio Company that is exercisable or exchangeable for, or convertible
into, any other security of such Portfolio Company, including warrants, options, convertible or exchangeable securities and other similar securities.  
   Debt   means, with respect to any Person, (i) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money; (ii) all
obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; (iii) all obligations of such Person in respect of letters of credit, bankers  acceptances or other similar instruments; (iv) all
obligations of such Person to pay the deferred and unpaid purchase price of property or services which are recorded as liabilities under GAAP, excluding trade payables arising in the ordinary course of business; (v) all obligations of such
Person as lessee under any lease of any property which, in conformity with GAAP, is required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of such Person; and (vi) all obligations of the types described in the preceding clauses (i) through
(v) of other Persons guaranteed by such Person or secured by a lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such obligation is assumed by such Person.  
      6  

Depreciation   means, with respect to any asset of the Company, the
depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery deduction, if any, allowable with respect to such asset for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except that if the Carrying Value of such asset differs from such asset s adjusted basis for U.S.
federal income tax purposes, any Depreciation with respect to such asset shall be computed pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(g) by reference to the Carrying Value of such asset, rather than by reference to the
adjusted tax basis of such asset.      Disposition   means any sale, exchange, transfer or other disposition of all or any
portion of any Portfolio Company Securities.      Eligible ROFO Holder   means, with respect to any Person, that one or more
Eligible ROFO Persons collectively, directly or indirectly, (i) own equity securities issued by such Person that carry voting power representing at least 20% of the aggregate voting power of all classes of equity securities issued by such
Person having the right to elect the board of directors (or analogous governing body) of such Person or (ii) otherwise exercise substantial influence over such Person (through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise).  
   Eligible ROFO Persons   means (i) Brian L. Roberts, (ii) any lineal descendant or ancestor or sibling (by birth or
adoption) of Brian L. Roberts, (iii) any spouse or former spouse of any of the foregoing, (iv) any legal representative or estate of any of the foregoing, (v) any trust (including a revocable trust, declaration trust or a voting
trust), guardianship or custodianship for the benefit of any of the foregoing, and (vi) any corporation, private charitable foundation or other organization controlled by any of the foregoing (other than Comcast, the Comcast Permitted Spin
Transferee or any of their respective controlled Affiliates).      Excess Transaction Fees   means any Transaction Fees
received by the Company or the Manager or any of its Affiliates that exceed the amount of subsequently payable Management Fees pursuant to the Management Agreement.  
   Exchange Act   means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  
   Fair Market Value   means, with respect to any assets, as of the relevant date of determination, the price that a willing
buyer, not Affiliated with the seller and under no compulsion to buy, would pay in an arms-length transaction for such assets to a willing seller, under no compulsion to sell.  
   FCC   means the U.S. Federal Communications Commission.  
   Flow-Through Portfolio Company   means a Controlled Portfolio Company treated either as a partnership or a disregarded entity
for U.S. federal income tax purposes.      GAAP   means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  
      7  

Governmental Authority   means any transnational, domestic or foreign federal,
state or local governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, department, court, agency or official, including any political subdivision thereof.  
   Governmental Order   means any order, decree, injunction or judgment of any Governmental Authority.  
   Indemnified Party   means any Comcast Indemnified Party and any Manager Indemnified Party.  
   Initial CEO   means Michael J. Angelakis.  
   Initial CEO Event   means an event that shall be deemed to have occurred if the Initial CEO: (i) is no longer dedicated
on a substantially full-time basis to the Company s business; (ii) is not the Manager s or the Company s chief executive officer or lead investment professional; (iii) (a) does not control, directly or indirectly, the
general partner of the Manager or does not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the voting power of the equity interests of the Manager entitled to vote generally, or (b) does not control, directly or indirectly, the general partner of
ManagementCo Shareholder or does not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the voting power of the equity interests of ManagementCo Shareholder entitled to vote generally; or (iv) does not, together with any estate planning or similar
vehicles of the Initial CEO, hold, directly or indirectly, economic interests of ManagementCo Shareholder representing the right to receive at least 20% of the proceeds of Class II Distributions.  
   Investment   means an investment by the Company or an Alternative Investment Vehicle in any equity securities or  equity-related  securities (including preferred equity, convertible debt or similar securities) or debt securities or in other economic rights (including pursuant to any profit sharing, revenue sharing or financing
arrangement);  provided ,  however , any investment of cash pursuant to Section 2.03 shall not constitute an Investment.  
   Investment Drawdown Amount   means the aggregate Capital Contributions to be made by the Shareholders with respect to an
Investment in connection with any draw of Capital Contributions pursuant to Article 6.      IRR   means, with respect to any
Capital Contributions and issuance of Class I Shares, an internal rate of return on such Capital Contribution calculated in accordance with accepted financial principles, compounded annually. The following rules shall be used in calculating an IRR:
   (i) such calculation shall take into account each Capital Contribution at the time such Capital Contribution was made; and
   (ii) such calculation shall take into account (A) the distribution in question at the time such distribution is made
or to be made and (B) each prior distribution in respect of the Class I Shares issued pursuant to the relevant Capital Contribution at the time such prior distribution was made.  
      8  

Letter Agreement   means the Letter Agreement dated the date hereof among the
Initial CEO, Comcast, the Company, Comcast Shareholder, ManagementCo Shareholder and the Manager, as in effect from time to time.  
   Management Agreement   means the Management Agreement between the Manager and the Company entered into on the date hereof, as
in effect from time to time.      Management Fee   means an annual management fee equal to $40,000,000 for calendar year 2016
and increased for each subsequent calendar year based on the percentage increase in the U.S. Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (as published by the U.S. Department of Labor   Bureau of Labor Statistics) for the prior 12 months,
payable quarterly in advance on the first Business Day of each Quarterly Period.      ManagementCo Shareholder Partnership
Agreement   means the Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of ManagementCo Shareholder, as in effect from time to time.  
   ManagementCo Shareholder Permitted Transferee   means any controlled Affiliate of the Initial CEO.  
   Manager Indemnified Party   means any of the following parties: (i) each director of the Board, (ii) the Manager,
(iii) ManagementCo Shareholder (including when acting in the capacity as the Tax Matters Partner), (iv) each Affiliate of the Manager or ManagementCo Shareholder, (v) each partner, stockholder, member, director, officer, fiduciary,
manager, controlling Person, employee and agent of the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any Affiliate of the Manager or ManagementCo Shareholder and (vi) each partner, stockholder, member, director, officer, fiduciary, manager, controlling
Person, employee and agent of any Person specified in clause (v) of this sentence.      Marketable Securities   mean
Publicly Traded Securities that are not subject to material legal or contractual restrictions on transferability, including any volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act.  
   Memorandum and Articles of Association   means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.  
   Non-Recourse   means, with respect to any Debt and any Person, that (i) no portion of such Debt is guaranteed by such
Person or any of its Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, (ii) no portion of such Debt is recourse to or obligates such Person or any of its Subsidiaries in any way, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise,
(iii) no portion of such Debt subjects any property or asset of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof and (iv) neither such Person nor any of its Subsidiaries
has any  
      9  

obligation to maintain or preserve its financial condition or achieve any levels of operating results with respect to such Debt;  provided ,  however , that for the avoidance of doubt,
Company Debt and Debt of any Portfolio Company or any Subsidiaries of any Portfolio Company shall not fail to satisfy the conditions to being Non-Recourse with respect to Comcast set forth in clause (iii) solely by reason of the fact that such
Debt or the satisfaction thereof may reduce the value of any Company Securities held by the Comcast Shareholder.      Non-U.S.
Law   means any Applicable Law, other than a U.S. Law.      Partnership Audit Reform Rules   means the amendments to
Chapter 63, Subchapter C of the Code as promulgated under Section 1101(c)(1) of the  Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015.   
   Person   means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or other entity or
organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.      Portfolio
Company   means, with respect to any Investment, any Person that is the issuer of any equity securities or  equity-related  securities (including preferred equity, convertible debt or similar securities)
or debt securities or that has granted the other economic rights that represent such Investment. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event the Company makes any Investment through a holding company formed for the purpose of consummating such
Investment and one or more third parties (including members of management or other investors) hold interests in such holding company, such holding company shall be the Portfolio Company for purposes of such Investment.  
   Portfolio Company Securities   means any equity securities or equity-related securities (including preferred equity,
convertible debt or similar securities) or debt securities that are issued by a Portfolio Company or other economic rights with respect to a Portfolio Company.  
   Priority Return   means, with respect to any Shareholder in connection with any determination pursuant to Section 8.02 or
Section 11.02, the dollar amount necessary to be distributed to such Shareholder at such time so that, with respect to the relevant Capital Contributions (in the case of Section 8.02) or with respect to each Capital Contribution (in the case of
Section 11.02) made by such Shareholder, such Shareholder receives or has received at such time aggregate distributions (after giving effect to all prior distributions and the distribution in question) resulting in an IRR on such Capital
Contribution of 2%.      Proceeds   means, with respect to any Investment, without duplication, (i) the cash and
non-cash proceeds received by the Company from any Disposition of such Investment and (ii) any dividends, interest or other distributions, and any other proceeds or other income, received in connection with such Investment.  
      10  

Profits   and   Losses   means, for each fiscal period of the
Company, the net income or net loss of the Company for such period, determined in accordance with U.S. federal income tax accounting principles, with the following adjustments (without duplication):  
 (i) any income of the Company that is exempt from U.S. federal income tax shall be included as income;  
 (ii) any expenditures of the Company described in Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code (or treated as expenditures described in
Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-l(b)(2)(iv) (i) ) shall be treated as current expenses;  
 (iii) if the Carrying Value of any Company asset is adjusted pursuant to clause (ii) or clause (iii) of the definition of
 Carrying Value,  the amount of such adjustment shall be taken into account as gain (if the adjustment increases the Carrying Value of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment reduces the Carrying Value of the asset) from the sale of such
asset for purposes of computing Profits or Losses;    (iv) if the Carrying Value of any Company asset differs from such asset s
adjusted basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes, gain or loss resulting from any disposition of such asset shall be computed by reference to such asset s Carrying Value (as of the date of disposition), rather than by reference to such
asset s adjusted basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes;    (v) for purposes of computing Profits or Losses, Depreciation shall be
taken into account instead of the depreciation, amortization and other cost recovery deductions, if any, allowable for U.S. federal income tax purposes;  
 (vi) to the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Company asset pursuant to Section 734(b) of the Code or
Section 743(b) of the Code is required, pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-l(b)(2)(iv) (m) , to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts, such adjustment shall be taken into account as gain (if the
adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases the basis of the asset) from the disposition of such asset for purposes of computing Profits or Losses; and  
 (vii) items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocated under Sections 8.07(a) and 8.08 shall not be taken into account in computing Profits
or Losses.      Publicly Traded Securities   means securities that are traded on a securities exchange, reported through the
U.S. National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or comparable established non-U.S. over-the-counter trading system or otherwise traded over-the-counter for which quotations of market prices are readily available.  
      11  

Quarterly Period   means (i) the short period, if any, commencing on the
Commencement Date and ending on the next succeeding day that is the last day of a calendar quarter, (ii) each full calendar quarter thereafter prior to the occurrence of a Wind-Up Event and (iii) the short period, if any, commencing on the
first day of the calendar quarter immediately following the last such full calendar quarter and ending on the day of the occurrence of a Wind-Up Event.  
   Quarterly Value   means, as of any determination date, with respect to any Investment or other Company Asset, the value of
such Investment or other Company Asset as reflected in the most recent quarterly financial statements of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries prepared and delivered to each Shareholder in accordance with Section 10.02(a)(ii). In the
event the most recent quarterly financial statements of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries referred to in the immediately preceding sentence do not include valuations of Investments or other Company Assets, the Company shall cause to be
prepared financial statements for such quarter which include such valuations on the same basis as if the Company were treated as an  investment company  for purposes of preparing financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and the
immediately preceding sentence shall be deemed to refer to such financial statements in lieu of the most recent quarterly financial statements prepared and delivered to each Shareholder in accordance with Section 10.02(a)(ii). In the case of
any Investment or other Company Asset acquired after the date of the applicable quarter end of the applicable financial statements,   Quarterly Value   shall mean the cost of such Investment or other Company Asset (or, in the case of
any Company Asset consisting of cash, the amount of such cash).      Regulated Investment   means an Investment in a
Portfolio Company that directly or indirectly holds an interest in any (i) broadcast or wireless radio service license issued by the FCC, (ii) daily newspaper in the United States, (iii) multichannel video programming distributor or
online video distributor in the United States, (iv) provider of broadband internet access services in the United States, (v) video programmer in the United States, (vi) other business subject to regulation by U.S. state public utility
commissions, local franchise authorities or other similar U.S. state or local regulatory authorities, (vii) any other business that is subject to regulation by the FCC at the time of the relevant determination and (viii) business of a type
described in the preceding clauses (i) through (vii) but operated outside of the United States and subject to regulation under Non-U.S. Law comparable to the regulation under Relevant Law of any business of a type described in the
preceding clauses (i) through (vii) in the United States.      Relevant Law   means (i) the Communications
Act, (ii) Applicable Law enacted, adopted, promulgated or applied by the FCC, (iii) U.S. Law regarding antitrust and (iv) Applicable Law enacted, adopted, promulgated or applied by a U.S. state or local Governmental Authority.  
   SEC   means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
   Securities Act   means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933.  
      12  

Shareholders   means Comcast Shareholder, ManagementCo Shareholder and any other
Person that becomes a  Shareholder  in accordance with the terms hereof and the Memorandum and Articles of Association.  
   Subsidiary   means, with respect to the Company or any other Person, any Person of which the Company (or such other Person)
owns securities having a majority of the voting power in electing the board of directors (or analogous governing body) directly or through one or more Subsidiaries or, in the case of a partnership, limited liability company or other similar entity
that is not governed by a board of managers (or analogous governing body), any Person of which the Company (or such other Person) or any Subsidiary serves as general partner or managing member. The term  Subsidiary  as used herein with
respect to the Company, the ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager and any of their respective Affiliates shall exclude each of the Portfolio Companies and each of the Subsidiaries of the Portfolio Companies.  
   Tax Attribute   means any net operating loss or net capital loss.  
   Tax Quarter   means any of the following calendar periods: (i) January 1 to March 31, (ii) April 1
to June 30, (iii) July 1 to September 30, and (iv) October 1 to December 31.      Tax
Rate   means (i) with respect to income treated as net capital gain and  qualified dividend income,  the highest blended U.S. federal, state and local income tax rate applicable to such type of gain or income, and
(ii) with respect to all other income and gain, the highest blended U.S. federal, state and local income tax rate applicable to ordinary income (including the Medicare Contribution tax on net investment income), in each case, taking into
account the tax rate applicable in the year in which such distribution or allocation is made, assuming that the taxpayer in question is (a) an individual resident in New York, New York, (b) fully subject to the alternative minimum tax
rates and rules and taking into account the deductibility of state and local taxes for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including any limitations on the deductibility thereof.  
   Temporary Cash Funds   shall mean a reserve that is established by the Company, in its reasonable discretion, to facilitate
the payment of Company Expenses or the purchase price of Investments.      Transaction Fees   means, with respect to any
Investment or proposed Investment, whether paid in the form of cash or securities, (i) any fees or amounts that are paid to the Company, the Manager or any of its Affiliates by any Person in connection with the termination, cancellation or
abandonment of such proposed Investment, including  break-up  or  topping  fees, (ii) any fees or amounts that are paid to the Company, the Manager or any of its Affiliates as a  commitment fee  with respect to
commitments of the Company s capital with respect to such proposed Investment, (iii) any organization or success fees received by the Company, the Manager or any of its Affiliates in connection with the making of such proposed Investment
or the Disposition of any Investment (including any accelerated advisory, monitoring, consulting or other similar fees), (iv) any periodic advisory, monitoring, consulting or other similar fees  

      13  

charged by the Manager or any of its Affiliates to any Portfolio Company or any Subsidiary of such Portfolio Company, or (v) any fees or amounts received by Affiliates or employees of the
Manager or any of its Affiliates acting as a director or in a similar capacity for any Portfolio Company;  provided  that  Transaction Fees  received by the Manager or any of its Affiliates shall not include any reimbursement by
actual or potential Portfolio Companies of out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Manager or any of its Affiliates ( e.g. , due diligence, legal, accounting, investment banking and similar expenses incurred in connection with any actual or
prospective transactions, travel expenses associated with attending board meetings and otherwise conducting investment oversight, etc.); and  provided ,  further , that  Transaction Fees  shall not include any compensation
referred to in Section 4.02(b).      Transfer   means, with respect to any Company Securities or other assets,
(i) when used as a verb, to sell, assign, dispose of, exchange, pledge, encumber, hypothecate or otherwise transfer such Company Securities or other assets or any participation or interest therein, whether directly or indirectly (including
pursuant to a derivative transaction), or agree or commit to do any of the foregoing and (ii) when used as a noun, a direct or indirect sale, assignment, disposition, exchange, pledge, encumbrance, hypothecation, or other transfer of such
Company Securities or other assets or any participation or interest therein, whether directly or indirectly (including pursuant to a derivative transaction), or any agreement or commitment to do any of the foregoing;  provided  that neither the
issuance by Comcast or any Comcast Successor (or by the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee or the ultimate parent company of the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee), or, to the extent permitted by the ManagementCo Shareholder Partnership Agreement,
ManagementCo Shareholder, of any equity securities or equity-related securities, nor the change in ownership of any outstanding equity securities or equity-related securities issued by Comcast or any Comcast Successor (or by the Comcast Permitted
Spin Transferee or the ultimate parent company of the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee), or, to the extent permitted by the ManagementCo Shareholder Partnership Agreement, ManagementCo Shareholder, shall constitute a Transfer by Comcast Shareholder
(or the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee) or ManagementCo Shareholder, as applicable, of any Company Securities;  provided, further , that the pledge, encumbrance or hypothecation of Company Securities by Comcast Shareholder (or the Comcast
Permitted Spin Transferee) in connection with the general pledge, encumbrance or hypothecation by Comcast or any Comcast Successor (or the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee) of all or substantially all of its assets made in connection with a bona
fide debt financing, or the Transfer of Company Securities upon the exercise of remedies in respect of any such pledge, encumbrance or hypothecation, shall not constitute a Transfer of any Company Securities;  and provided, further , that the
pledge, encumbrance or hypothecation of Company Securities (other than as prohibited under Section 10.17) by ManagementCo Shareholder in connection with the general pledge, encumbrance or hypothecation by ManagementCo Shareholder of all or
substantially all of its assets made in connection with a bona fide debt financing, or the Transfer of Company Securities upon the exercise of remedies in respect of any such pledge, encumbrance or hypothecation, shall not constitute a Transfer of
any Company Securities.  
      14  

Unreturned Capital Amount   means, with respect to Comcast Shareholder as of any
determination date, the excess, if any, of (i) Comcast Shareholder s aggregate Capital Contributions as of such date (other than Capital Contributions made for the purpose of funding Company Expenses or the Management Fee) over
(ii) the aggregate distributions to Comcast Shareholder pursuant to Sections 8.02 and 8.04 as of such date ( provided ,  however , that as used in the definition of Company Debt Ratio, this clause (ii) shall be deemed to refer
only to the aggregate distributions to Comcast Shareholder pursuant to clauses (a), (b) and (e)(i) of Section 8.02, plus the aggregate distributions to Comcast Shareholder under Section 8.04 constituting an advance of distributions to
which Comcast Shareholder is entitled under such clauses of Section 8.02). In the event there is no such excess as of any determination date, the Unreturned Capital Amount shall be deemed to be zero.  
   U.S. Law   means any Applicable Law enacted, adopted, promulgated or applied by a U.S. federal, state or local Governmental
Authority.    (b) Each of the following terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such term:  

15  

Section 1.02.  Other Definitional and Interpretative Provisions.  The words  hereof ,
 herein  and  hereunder  and words of like import used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The captions herein are included for convenience of
reference only and shall be ignored in the construction or interpretation hereof. References to Articles, Sections and Schedules are to Articles, Sections and Schedules of this Agreement unless otherwise specified. All Schedules annexed hereto or
referred to herein are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement as if set forth in full herein. Any capitalized terms used in any Schedule but not otherwise defined therein, shall have the meaning as defined in this Agreement. Any
singular term in this Agreement shall be deemed to include the plural, and any plural term the singular. Whenever the words  include ,  includes  or  including  are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be
followed by the words  without limitation , whether or not they are in fact followed by those words or words of like import.  Writing ,  written  and comparable terms refer to printing, typing and other means of
reproducing words (including electronic media) in a visible form. References to any constitutional document, agreement or contract are to that agreement or contract as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms
hereof and thereof. References to any law are to that law as amended from time to time and include all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. References to any Person include the successors and permitted assigns of that Person. References
from or through any date mean, unless otherwise specified, from and including or through and including, respectively.  
      16  

ARTICLE 2  
 P URPOSES ; I NVESTMENTS ; I SSUANCE   OF  C OMPANY  S ECURITIES 
   Section 2.01.  Business Purpose.  The business for which the Company has been established is (a) to identify potential
Investments in public and private entities globally, in a range of industries and business sectors, (b) to acquire, hold and dispose of such Investments, (c) pending utilization or disbursement of funds of the Company, to invest such funds
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (d) to enter into other financial or commercial arrangements with Comcast (including, potentially, the purchase of non-core assets) as may be agreed by the Company and Comcast from time to
time. The Company shall have the power to do any and all acts necessary, appropriate, desirable, incidental or convenient to or for the furtherance of the purposes described in this Section 2.01 or otherwise as provided for in this Agreement.
   Section 2.02.  Investments.    
 (a) Any Investment may involve investing in one or more classes or series of securities issued by, or other economic rights granted by, a
Portfolio Company. Subject to Section 2.02(b), any Investment shall be made by the Company directly or through one or more wholly owned Subsidiaries.  
 (b) In order to accommodate tax, legal, regulatory or similar considerations of the Company or any Shareholder or otherwise to facilitate the
making of an Investment, the Manager may cause an Investment (or any portion thereof) to be made through an Alternative Investment Vehicle;  provided ,  however , that the making of any Investment (or any portion thereof) through an
Alternative Investment Vehicle shall be subject to the prior written consent of Comcast Shareholder, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. If any Investment is made through an Alternative Investment Vehicle, the parties will agree in
good faith on such modifications to this Agreement, and enter into such other agreements, as are necessary to address such Investment, it being understood that, for all purposes hereof (including Section 8.02 and Article 11), any Investment made
through an Alternative Investment Vehicle will be taken into account and treated as if such Investment were made through the Company.    (c)
For purposes of this Agreement:    (i) all securities of a Portfolio Company of the same class or series and all other economic rights
granted by a Portfolio Company that are similarly comparable shall, in each case, be treated as a single  Investment,  regardless of whether such securities or economic rights are acquired in a single transaction or a series of related or
unrelated transactions;    (ii) subject to Section 2.02(c)(iii), different classes or series of securities of a Portfolio Company and other
economic rights granted by a Portfolio  
      17  

Company that do not qualify for treatment as a single  Investment  under Section 2.02(c)(i) shall, in each case, be treated as separate  Investments , regardless of whether
such securities or economic rights are acquired in a single transaction or a series of related or unrelated transactions; and    (iii) the
securities issued upon exercise, exchange or conversion of any Convertible Securities shall constitute the same  Investment  as the  Investment  in such Convertible Securities.  
 Section 2.03.  Temporary Investment of Funds.  The Company shall invest all cash held by the Company in accordance with the
limitations set forth in, and in the interest bearing instruments or accounts specified in,  Schedule III . The Company may amend  Schedule III  with the approval of Comcast Shareholder, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed. Cash held by the Company includes all amounts being held by the Company for future investment in Investments, payment of Company Expenses or distribution to the Shareholders.  
 Section 2.04.  Issuance of Company Securities .  
 (a) On the date hereof, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein, the Company is issuing to Comcast Shareholder and
ManagementCo Shareholder the number and class of Company Securities set forth opposite the names of such Persons on  Schedule I .  
 (b) Upon the making by any Shareholder of any Capital Contributions pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall issue to such Shareholder a
number of Class I Shares (which shall be Class I-A Shares if such Shareholder holds Class I-A Shares or  Class I-B Shares  if such Shareholder does not hold Class I-A Shares) equal to (i) the
amount of the Capital Contribution made by such Shareholder  divided by  (ii) 1,000;  provided  that the first 100 Class I-A Shares and the first 100 Class I-B Shares that would otherwise be issued by the Company to Comcast
Shareholder and ManagementCo Shareholder, respectively, pursuant to this Section 2.04(b) shall be offset against the Class I-A Shares and Class I-B Shares issued to Comcast Shareholder and ManagementCo Shareholder, respectively, on the date
hereof.    (c) Each issuance of Shares pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall be recorded in the Company s register of
members. All issued Company Securities shall be uncertificated, unless a certificate is required by Applicable Law.    ARTICLE 3  
 M ANAGEMENT   OF   THE  C OMPANY ;  THE  M ANAGER   
 Section 3.01.  Management Generally.    
 (a) Subject to Section 3.01(b), the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the Company shall be vested
exclusively in the Board. Any references in this Agreement to a determination made by, or the judgment of, the  
      18  

Company shall be deemed to refer to a determination made by, or the judgment of, the Board, respectively. The Shareholders shall have no part in the management or control of the Company and shall
have no authority or right to act on behalf of the Company in connection with any matter.    (b) Subject to any limitations under Applicable
Law, the Board may appoint one or more officers of the Company (the   Officers  ) and delegate to any Officer such authority as the Board may determine. To the extent any such delegated authority would otherwise be an authority of the
Board under Applicable Law or this Agreement, any determination made by, or the judgment of, the Officer exercising such authority in accordance with such delegation shall be deemed to be a determination made by, or the judgment of, the Board. The
Board may remove any Officer at any time with or without cause.    (c) Unless explicitly designated as such, the Officers are not members of
the Board. One individual may hold more than one office. Each Officer shall hold his or her office until his or her successor is appointed or until his or her earlier resignation, removal, incapacity or death. Any Officer may resign by delivering
his or her written resignation to the Company, and such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at such other time or upon the happening of some event.  
 (d) No Person dealing with any Officer shall be required to determine such Officer s authority to make any commitment or undertaking on
behalf of the Company or to determine any fact or circumstance bearing upon the existence of the authority of such Officer.  
 Section 3.02.  Memorandum and Articles of Association Provisions . Each Shareholder agrees to vote all of its Company Securities or
execute proxies or written consents, as the case may be, and to take all other actions necessary, to ensure that the Memorandum and Articles of Association (i) facilitate, and do not at any time conflict with, any provision of this Agreement
and (ii) permit each Shareholder to receive the benefits to which each such Shareholder is entitled under this Agreement.  
 Section 3.03.  The Manager.  To the fullest extent permitted by Cayman law, the Board shall have the right to delegate management
and conduct of the business of the Company to another Person designated to act as the manager of the Company. To the extent of any such delegation, any references in this Agreement to a determination made by, or the judgment of, the Company or the
Board shall be deemed to refer to a determination made by, or the judgment of, such manager, respectively. Without limiting the foregoing, on the date hereof, the Company is entering into the Management Agreement with the Manager pursuant to which
the Company is appointing the Manager to act as the manager of the Company to the extent contemplated by the Management Agreement. In the event that, at any time, the Manager is not serving as manager of the Company, any references in this Agreement
to a determination made by, or the judgment of, the Manager shall be deemed to refer to a determination made by, or the judgment of, the Board or such other Person to which the Board has delegated such determination or judgment.  
      19  

Section 3.04.  Cause Event .  
 (a) Upon the occurrence of a Cause Event, at Comcast Shareholder s election, the Company shall (i) redeem the Company Securities held
by ManagementCo Shareholder (a   Cause Redemption  ) in accordance with this Section 3.04 and (ii) terminate the Management Agreement.  
 (b) Upon the occurrence of a Cause Redemption, (i) the Class I-B Shares held by ManagementCo Shareholder and the Class
II Shares shall be compulsorily redeemed by the Company, (ii) ManagementCo Shareholder shall cease to have any rights, powers, obligations or duties provided to it under this Agreement (except for any rights, powers, obligations and duties
under this Section 3.04(b) and Section 10.06) or otherwise in respect of its Class I-B Shares or the Class II Shares, (iii) ManagementCo Shareholder shall cause each member of the Board to resign, effective as of the date of such
redemption, and (iv) Section 11.02 shall apply as if (A) the date of such redemption is an Interim Clawback Date and (B) the Company had sold all Company Assets at the Quarterly Value, settled all of its liabilities and
distributed the resulting cash pursuant to Section 11.01 on the date of such redemption (and, for the avoidance of doubt, ManagementCo Shareholder shall not participate in any appreciation in the value of any Company Assets after the date of
such redemption). In connection with a Cause Redemption, ManagementCo Shareholder shall be entitled to receive from the Company as of the date of redemption an amount equal to the distributions it would be entitled to receive in such assumed
liquidation as contemplated by clause (iv) of the preceding sentence, less 20% of the portion of such amount that is attributable to undistributed Class II Proceeds, and ManagementCo Shareholder shall be deemed to have an Available Capital
Commitment equal to zero from and after the date of redemption. Any amount paid to ManagementCo Shareholder pursuant to this Section 3.04(b) shall be paid in the form of a promissory note, which promissory note shall be non-interest bearing,
shall have a final maturity date not later than the last day on which the Company makes distributions pursuant to Section 11.01 and shall provide that ManagementCo Shareholder will receive payments in respect thereto on each date on which a
distribution is made to the Shareholders in proportion to the distributions that ManagementCo Shareholder would have received had a Cause Redemption not occurred. The Shareholders and the Company agree that, to the maximum extent permissible, all
payments under this Section 3.04(b) (other than the issuance of the promissory note to the extent such issuance is not otherwise a taxable event under the Code) shall be treated as payments described in Section 736(b)(1) of the Code.  
 (c) Upon any termination of the Management Agreement, the Manager shall cease to have any rights, powers, obligations or duties provided to it
under this Agreement (except for any rights, powers, obligations and duties under Section 10.06).  
      20  

ARTICLE 4  
 C ONSENT  R IGHTS   
 Section 4.01.  Actions Requiring Consent.  The Company agrees that it shall not take any of the following actions (in each case,
including any action by the Board or any committee of the Board or the Manager or any other manager of the Company) without the approval of Comcast Shareholder:  
 (a) make any individual Investment (or a series of Investments that are part of the same overall transaction) of more than $400 million
in the aggregate sourced from Capital Contributions or Distributable Amounts;  provided ,  however , that at any time at which the Unreturned Capital Amount of Comcast Shareholder is zero, the Company may make any individual Investment (or
a series of Investments that are part of the same overall transaction) of up to $750 million in the aggregate sourced from Distributable Amounts without the approval of Comcast Shareholder; or  
 (b) make Investments of more than $2 billion in the aggregate sourced from Capital Contributions or Distributable Amounts in any 12-month
period;    (c) make any Regulated Investment that would:  
 (i) limit or impair in any significant respect the activities of (A) any then-existing or then-contemplated Comcast Core Business under
any provision of Relevant Law or (B) any then-existing Comcast Core Business operating in any jurisdiction outside of the United States under any Non-U.S. Law of any jurisdiction in which such Comcast Core Business operates; or  
 (ii) subject (A) Comcast or any of its Affiliates to any additional significant obligations or requirements under Relevant Law or
(B) any then-existing Comcast Core Business operating in any jurisdiction outside of the United States to any additional significant obligations or requirements under any Non-U.S. Law of any jurisdiction in which such Comcast Core Business
operates;    (d) make any Investment that would violate (or cause Comcast or any of its Affiliates to be in violation of) in any significant
respect any Applicable Law;    (e) make any Investment that would limit or impair in any significant respect the activities of any
(i) then-existing or  then-contemplated  Comcast Core Business under U.S. Law regarding antitrust or (ii) then-existing Comcast Core Business operating in any jurisdiction outside of the United States
under Non-U.S. Law regarding antitrust of any jurisdiction in which such Comcast Core Business operates;    (f) make any Investment in the
United States in any Comcast Core Business where Comcast wishes to (i) acquire 100% of the relevant business and, thereafter, (ii) integrate the relevant business into Comcast s other operations in a manner consistent with the manner
in which Comcast has integrated other acquired businesses that do not have third party investors or in a manner such that it would otherwise be unduly burdensome or inappropriate for there to be third party investors in such business (a
  Comcast Core Integrated Investment      (g) make any Investment in the United States in any Comcast Core Business, other
than a Comcast Core Integrated Investment (a   Comcast Core Non-Integrated    
      21  

Investment    provided  that, in the case of any Comcast Core Non-Integrated Investment that is being independently considered by the Company, (i) with respect to such
Comcast Core Non-Integrated Investment in a domestic corporation, the Company will partner and be permitted to co-invest with Comcast for at least 25% of such Comcast Core Non-Integrated Investment,  provided ,  however , that such
co-investment percentage may be reduced at Comcast s election, but not below 20%, solely to the extent necessary to enable Comcast to file a consolidated return (within the meaning of Section 1501 of the Code) with such domestic
corporation; and (ii) with respect to all other Comcast Core Non-Integrated Investments, the Company will partner and be permitted to co-invest with Comcast for at least 25% of such Comcast Core Non-Integrated Investments;  
 (h) issue any Company Securities other than as contemplated by this Agreement or any other equity securities or admit third party direct
investors (other than Comcast Shareholder, ManagementCo Shareholder, any Comcast Permitted Transferee and any ManagementCo Permitted Transferee) in the Company;  
 (i) incur, create, issue, assume or guarantee Company Debt except to the extent (i) the Company Debt Ratio does not exceed 1.25:1,
(ii) the outstanding Company Debt does not exceed $5 billion and (iii) all Company Debt is Non-Recourse to Comcast (it being understood that any Company Debt incurred, created, issued, assumed or guaranteed at a time when the Company Debt
Ratio satisfies the threshold set forth in subclause (i) above may remain outstanding thereafter without any required approval of the Comcast Shareholder whether or not the Company Debt Ratio satisfies such threshold at any subsequent time);
   (j) make a public offering of securities issued by the Company;  
 (k) permit the entry into any agreement or arrangement between the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Portfolio Companies or any of
their respective Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries), on the other hand, other than this Agreement, the Management Agreement,
the Letter Agreement or any such agreement or arrangement (A) providing for reimbursement by any Portfolio Company of any expenses of the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates permitted to be reimbursed
pursuant to Section 7.01, (B) providing for payment of any Transaction Fees to the Manager, the ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates to the extent such payment is permitted by this Agreement or the Management
Agreement, (C) providing for indemnification, contribution, exculpation or advancement of expenses by any Portfolio Company or any of its respective Subsidiaries in respect of any damages, liabilities, losses or expenses of the Manager,
ManagementCo Shareholder or any of its Affiliates, (D) that is a shareholders agreement or similar agreement and does not provide for the payment of money or other items of value, directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of the Manager,
ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates, or (E) that is a trademark license agreement or similar agreement related to intellectual property rights and does not provide for the payment of money or other items of value,
directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates;  
      22  

(l) permit the waiver or failure to enforce by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any
contractual obligations of the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries), including obligations of the Manager pursuant to the Management Agreement;  
 (m) take any action that is reasonably expected to cause the Company not to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
or    (n) make any amendment to the Memorandum and Articles of Association.  
 Section 4.02.  Further Agreements with Respect to Actions Requiring Consent .  
 (a) In the event that Comcast Shareholder determines not to grant its consent to a proposed action pursuant to Section 4.01, the Manager
and Comcast Shareholder shall discuss the reasons for such withholding of consent and will consider in good faith whether there are alternative approaches that might address Comcast Shareholder s concerns while permitting (a possibly modified
version of) the proposed action to go forward.    (b) In the event that Comcast Shareholder determines not to grant its consent to a
proposed Investment under Section 4.01(f) or Section 4.01(g), and such Investment is initially identified to Comcast Shareholder by the Company or the Manager, Comcast Shareholder, the Company and the Manager will discuss in good faith
arrangements designed to compensate the Manager for its efforts in identifying/sourcing the Investment.    Section 4.03.  Core
Business Evaluation . Solely for the purposes of the matters covered by this Section 4.03, during the Company s evaluation of any prospective Investment, the Manager may, in its sole discretion, present to Comcast Shareholder a summary
description of the prospective Investment (  Core Business Evaluation Material  ), and Comcast Shareholder shall have 10 Business Days from receipt of such Core Business Evaluation Material to notify the Manager in writing
whether it believes that such prospective Investment is in a Comcast Core Business. To the extent Comcast Shareholder believes after receipt of Core Business Evaluation Material that a prospective Investment is in a Comcast Core Business, Comcast
Shareholder will have an additional 10 Business Days from the date it notifies the Manager in writing of such belief to notify the Manager in writing whether it would designate such prospective Investment as a Comcast Core Integrated Investment or a
Comcast Core Non-Integrated Investment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Comcast Shareholder and Comcast acknowledge and agree that (i) any indication by Comcast Shareholder pursuant to this Section 4.03 that it believes a prospective Investment
is in a Comcast Core Business shall not be binding on the Company, the Manager or any of their respective Affiliates and (ii) any indication by Comcast Shareholder pursuant to this Section 4.03 that it believes a prospective Investment is not
in a Comcast Core Business shall be binding on Comcast Shareholder and its Affiliates.  
      23  

ARTICLE 5  
 R ESTRICTIONS   ON  T RANSFER   
 Section 5.01.  General Restrictions on Transfer .  
 (a) Each Shareholder understands and agrees that the Company Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act and are restricted
securities. Each Shareholder agrees that it shall not Transfer any Company Securities, except in compliance with the Securities Act, any other applicable securities or  blue sky  laws and the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the
Memorandum and Articles of Association.    (b) Any attempt to Transfer any Company Securities not in compliance with this Agreement and the
Memorandum and Articles of Association shall be null and void, and the Company shall not give any effect in the Company s register of members to such attempted Transfer.  
 Section 5.02.  Legends.  If at any time the Company issues certificated Company Securities, then, in addition to any other legend
that may be required, each certificate for Company Securities issued to any Shareholder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:  
 THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR ANY NON-U.S. OR STATE SECURITIES LAWS AND MAY NOT
BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE THEREWITH. THIS SECURITY IS ALSO SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AS SET FORTH IN THE SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 24, 2015 AND EFFECTIVE AS OF
JANUARY 1, 2016, AS AMENDED FROM TIME TO TIME, COPIES OF WHICH MAY BE OBTAINED UPON REQUEST FROM ATAIROS GROUP, INC. OR ANY SUCCESSOR THERETO, AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE VOTED OR OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE
THEREWITH.    Section 5.03.  Restrictions on Transfers .  
 (a)  Restrictions on Transfer . Except as expressly permitted by this Agreement, no Transfer of any Company Securities shall occur.  
 (b)  Comcast Permitted Transferees . Notwithstanding Section 5.03(a), without the consent of the Company, the Manager or any other
Shareholder, (i) Comcast Shareholder may Transfer some or all of its Company Securities (A) to one or more Comcast Permitted Transferees in accordance with this Section 5.03 or (B) as contemplated by Section 10.08 and, in
each case, in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association and (ii) ManagementCo Shareholder may Transfer some or all of its Company Securities to one or more Management Shareholder Permitted Transferees in accordance with this
Section 5.03 and the Memorandum and Articles of Association.  
      24  

(c)  Treatment of Comcast Shareholder Rights and Obligations .    
 (i) If Comcast Shareholder Transfers all of its Company Securities to a Comcast Permitted Transferee, then, subject to Section 5.03(d),
all Comcast Shareholder Rights and Obligations shall, subject to Section 5.03(c)(iv), automatically apply to such Comcast Permitted Transferee, and the provisions of this Agreement shall be construed accordingly.  
 (ii) If Comcast Shareholder Transfers some, but less than all, of its Company Securities to a Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee (a
  Partial Spin Transfer  ), then (A) such Transfer shall only be in the form of an indirect transfer via the transfer to such Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee of equity securities issued by Comcast Shareholder (or the issuance
by Comcast Shareholder of equity securities to such Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee), (B) subject to Section 5.03(c)(iv) and Section 5.03(d), all Comcast Shareholder Rights and Obligations shall continue to apply to, and shall only
be exercisable by, Comcast Shareholder and (C) Comcast and the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee shall enter into such arrangements with respect to the indirect allocation of Comcast Shareholder Rights and Obligations between themselves (as
holders of equity securities issued by Comcast Shareholder) as they shall determine in their sole discretion.    (iii) In
the event that Comcast proposes to effect a Partial Spin Transfer and the procedures set forth in Section 5.03(c)(ii) would, or would reasonably be likely to, result in significant adverse consequences to Comcast or the Comcast Permitted Spin
Transferee, then Comcast Shareholder, the Company and the Manager shall negotiate in good faith to structure alternative arrangements and modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties (as reflected in
Section 5.03(c)(ii) and Section 5.03(d)) as close as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated by Section 5.03(c)(ii) can be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible without
resulting in such adverse consequences. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such alternative arrangements may include the Transfer of some of Comcast Shareholder s Company Securities to the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee and
the allocation of the Comcast Shareholder Rights and Obligations between Comcast and the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee.    (iv) In the
event of a Partial Spin Transfer, Comcast Shareholder s consent rights set forth in Section 4.01(c) shall only be allocated to the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee pursuant to Section 5.03(c)(ii) to the extent they correspond to the
legal and regulatory regimes applicable to such Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee. In the event of a Transfer of all Comcast Shareholder s Company Securities to a Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee, the parties acknowledge and agree that Comcast
Shareholder s consent rights set forth in Section 4.01(c) shall be adjusted, if necessary, in order to correspond only to the legal and regulatory regimes applicable to such Comcast  
      25  

Permitted Spin Transferee and, in such a case, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to enter into an amendment to this Agreement, to be effective immediately prior to the completion of any
such Transfer, so that such consent rights are so appropriately adjusted;  provided ,  however , that in no case shall such consent rights be adjusted to grant any broader consent rights to any Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee than the
consent rights held by Comcast Shareholder pursuant to Section 4.01(c) as in effect immediately prior to such amendment.    (d)
 Treatment of ROFO Rights .    (i) In the case of a Transfer of all of Comcast Shareholder s Company Securities to a Comcast
Permitted Spin Transferee:    (A) if, at the time of the Transfer, the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee is an Eligible ROFO Holder:  
 (1) the Comcast Rights and Obligations set forth in Article 9 (the   ROFO Rights  ) shall automatically apply to the Comcast
Permitted Spin Transferee; and    (2) if, at any time after the Transfer, the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee ceases to be an Eligible
ROFO Holder, the ROFO Rights shall automatically cease to apply effective as of the 24 month anniversary of the date on which the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee ceases to be an Eligible ROFO Holder;  provided  that the ROFO Rights shall
continue to apply in respect of any Offered ROFO Assets for which an Offer Notice has been delivered prior to the time at which the ROFO Rights otherwise cease to apply (this proviso, the   Surviving ROFO Rights Principle   or  
 (B) if, at the time of the Transfer, the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee is not an Eligible ROFO Holder, the ROFO Rights shall
automatically cease to apply, subject to the Surviving ROFO Rights Principle.    (ii) In the case of a Partial Spin Transfer:  
 (A) if, at the time of the Transfer, neither Comcast nor the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee is an Eligible ROFO Holder, the ROFO Rights
shall automatically cease to apply, subject to the Surviving ROFO Rights Principle; or    (B) in all other cases, (1) at the time of
the Transfer, Comcast shall determine in its sole discretion, and designate in writing to the Manager, whether the ROFO Rights with respect to each Portfolio Company in which the Company then holds an Investment shall be allocated to Comcast or to
the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee and (2) at all times after the Transfer, promptly following the consummation of each Investment made by the Company in a Portfolio Company that is not covered by the preceding clause (1), Comcast shall
determine in its sole discretion, and designate in writing to the Manager, whether the ROFO Rights with respect to such Portfolio  
      26  

Company shall be allocated to Comcast or to the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee;  provided  that, in the case of each of clauses (1) and (2), Comcast may not allocate ROFO Rights to
Comcast or to the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee if, at the time of such allocation, such Person is not an Eligible ROFO Holder (and, if at the time at which Comcast would otherwise allocate ROFO Rights pursuant to this Section 5.03(d)(ii),
neither Comcast nor the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee is an Eligible ROFO Holder, then such ROFO Rights shall automatically cease to apply, subject to the Surviving ROFO Rights Principle).  
 (iii) If any ROFO Rights are allocated to Comcast or the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee pursuant to Section 5.03(d)(ii) and,
following such allocation, such Person ceases to be an Eligible ROFO Holder, then the ROFO Rights allocated to such Person shall automatically cease to apply effective as of the 24 month anniversary of the date on which such Person ceases to be an
Eligible ROFO Holder, subject to the Surviving ROFO Rights Principle.    (iv) For the avoidance of doubt, (A) any ROFO Rights
allocated to Comcast or the Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee pursuant to Section 5.03(d)(ii) shall continue to apply to, and shall only be exercisable by, Comcast Shareholder, as contemplated by Section 5.03(c)(ii) and (B) any ROFO
Rights that cease to apply pursuant to Section 5.03(d)(ii) or 5.03(d)(iii) shall no longer apply to, and shall not be exercisable by, Comcast Shareholder or any other Person.  
 (e)  General Provisions .    
 (i) Notwithstanding Section 5.03(b), in no event may a Transfer of some or all of the Company Securities held by Comcast Shareholder or
ManagementCo Shareholder occur if the Manager determines in good faith that such Transfer is reasonably likely to (A) cause a dissolution of the Company under Applicable Law (for the avoidance of doubt, not including any technical termination
under Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code); (B) result in the Company s assets being deemed to be  plan assets  for purposes of ERISA or constitute a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code; (C) require the Company
to register as an  investment company  within the meaning of the Investment Company Act; (D) require registration of any Company Securities under the Securities Act; (E) cause the Company to be treated (or cause a material risk
that the Company will be treated) as a  publicly traded partnership  or otherwise as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes; (F) subject the Company, the Manager or any of their respective Affiliates to a materially
burdensome tax, legal or regulatory regime to which it would not otherwise be subject; (G) cause the Company, the Manager or any of their respective Affiliates to be in violation of Applicable Law; or (H) result in the Company, any
Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates being subject, directly or indirectly, to additional tax costs not reimbursed by Comcast (with respect to a Transfer of Company Securities held by Comcast Shareholder) or ManagementCo Shareholder
(with respect to a Transfer of Company Securities held by ManagementCo Shareholder).  
      27  

(ii) Each Comcast Permitted Transferee and ManagementCo Shareholder Permitted Transferee shall
execute a joinder to this Agreement in a form to be reasonably agreed by the transferor and the Company.    ARTICLE 6  
 C APITAL  C OMMITMENTS   AND  C APITAL  C ONTRIBUTIONS   
 Section 6.01.  Capital Commitments.    
 (a) Each Shareholder hereby agrees to, from time to time as hereinafter set forth in this Article 6, make Capital Contributions in respect of
(i) Investments;  provided  that the applicable Drawdown Notice is delivered to such Shareholder prior to the termination of the Commitment Period (except that such Drawdown Notice may be delivered to such Shareholder after the termination
of the Commitment Period if such Drawdown Notice relates to an Investment that the Company committed to make pursuant to a binding agreement entered into prior to the termination of the Commitment Period) and (ii) Company Expenses.  
 (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, but subject to Section 6.03, no Shareholder shall be required to make any
Capital Contribution (other than a Capital Contribution by Comcast Shareholder to fund the Management Fee pursuant to Section 6.02(d)) to the extent that, at the time such Capital Contribution is to be made, such Capital Contribution exceeds
such Shareholder s Available Capital Commitment at such time.    (c) At Comcast Shareholder s election, the Commitment Period
shall terminate early upon the first to occur of the following:    (i) an Initial CEO Event; or  
 (ii) a Cause Event.    The Company shall give
Comcast prompt notice of the occurrence of any Initial CEO Event or Cause Event.    (d) Capital Contributions shall be treated by the
Company as consideration for the subscription for additional Class I Shares in accordance with Section 2.04(b).    Section 6.02.
 Drawdowns.      (a) Subject to Article 4 and this Article 6, each Shareholder shall make Capital Contributions in such amounts and at
such times as the Company shall specify in notices (  Drawdown Notices  ) delivered from time to time to such Shareholder. All Capital Contributions shall be paid to the Company in immediately available funds in U.S. dollars by 11:00
A.M. (New York time) on the date specified in the applicable Drawdown Notice. Capital Contributions may include amounts that the Company determines, in its reasonable discretion, are necessary or desirable for Temporary Cash Funds or to establish
reserves in respect of Company Expenses.  
      28  

(b) Each Drawdown Notice in respect of a Drawdown shall specify:  
 (i) the manner in which, and the expected date on which, such Drawdown is to be applied;  
 (ii) the required Capital Contribution to be made by each Shareholder (which shall be equal to the sum of (x) such Shareholder s
share (determined pursuant to Section 6.02(c)) of each Investment Drawdown Amount, and (y) such Shareholder s share (determined pursuant to Section 6.02(d)) of each Company Expenses Drawdown Amount;  
 (iii) the date (the   Drawdown Date  ) on which such Capital Contribution is due, which will be at least 10 Business Days from
and including the date of delivery of the Drawdown Notice; and    (iv) the account of the Company to which such Capital Contributions shall
be paid.    (c) With respect to each draw of Capital Contributions to the extent to fund an Investment, each Shareholder shall be required
to make a Capital Contribution equal to the product of (x) such Shareholder s Available Commitment Percentage multiplied by (y) the Investment Drawdown Amount in respect of such Investment.  
 (d) With respect to each draw of Capital Contributions to the extent to fund Company Expenses, each Shareholder shall be required to make a
Capital Contribution equal to the product of (x) such Shareholder s Available Commitment Percentage multiplied by (y) the Company Expenses Drawdown Amount in respect of such Company Expenses;  provided  that, with respect to each
draw of Capital Contributions to the extent to fund the Management Fee, Comcast Shareholder shall be required to make a Capital Contribution equal to the amount of the Management Fee to be funded by such draw and no other Shareholder shall be
required to make any Capital Contribution.    (e) Subject to Section 4.01, the Company may utilize previous Capital Contributions in respect
of Temporary Cash Funds or amounts retained by the Company pursuant to Section 8.05(c) to fund all or any portion of the acquisition of any Investment or the payment of Company Expenses at any time, and, for the avoidance of doubt, any such use
will not reduce the Available Capital Commitment of any Shareholder.    Section 6.03.  Reinvestment.  At all times prior to the
seventh anniversary of the Commencement Date, the Company may recall as Capital Contributions pursuant to this Article 6 all or a portion of amounts distributed to the Shareholders pursuant to Section 8.02 that represent the return of Capital
Contributions made by the Shareholders and use such recalled amounts for the making of Investments;  provided  that in no event will the cost basis of Investments held by the Company attributable to Capital
 
      29  

Contributions made by Comcast Shareholder (including any recalled Capital Contributions) exceed $4,000,000,000 at any time (for the avoidance of doubt, not reduced by any amounts retained by the
Company pursuant to Section 8.05(c)). In order to give effect to the foregoing, any amounts distributed prior to the seventh anniversary of the Commencement Date to any Shareholder pursuant to Section 8.02 that represent the return of
Capital Contributions shall reduce, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, the amount of  Capital Contributions made  by such Shareholder prior to such time for purposes of clause (b) of the definition of  Available Capital
Commitments .    ARTICLE 7  
 E XPENSES   
 Section 7.01.  Definition and Payment of Manager Expenses . The Management Agreement provides that, as between the Manager and the
Company, the Manager shall be solely responsible for and shall pay all Manager Expenses. As used herein, the term   Manager Expenses   means (i) normal operating expenses of the Manager including compensation and employee benefit
expenses of employees of the Manager and related overhead (including rent, utilities and other similar items) (it being understood that the Manager or any of its Affiliates may seek to be reimbursed by actual or potential Portfolio Companies for
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Manager or any of its Affiliates (e.g., due diligence, legal, accounting, investment banking and similar expenses incurred in connection with any actual or prospective transactions; travel expenses associated
with attending board meetings and otherwise conducting investment oversight, etc.)), and (ii) routine administrative expenses of the Company (e.g., the preparation of financial statements of the Company pursuant to Section 10.02(a) and the
preparation and filing of tax returns of the Company pursuant to Section 10.19(a), subject to the other terms regarding expenses set forth in Section 10.19(a)).  
 Section 7.02.  Definition and Payment of Company Expenses .  
 (a) The Company shall be responsible for and shall pay all Company Expenses. As used herein, the term   Company Expenses   means
all expenses or obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary, or otherwise incurred by the Manager in connection with this Agreement (other than (x) Manager Expenses and (y) the obligation of the Company to pay the purchase price for any
Investment), including:    (i) reasonable expenses in connection with the organization of the Company;  
 (ii) to the extent not reimbursed by actual or potential Portfolio Companies, expenses directly attributable to any Investment or proposed
Investment that is ultimately not made by the Company, including all unreimbursed expenses incurred in connection with the evaluation, making, holding, refinancing, pledging, sale or other disposition or proposed refinancing, pledging, sale or other
disposition of all or any portion of such Investment (including deal initiation expenses, investment banking, consulting, valuation, custodial, trustee and professional expenses, and travel);  
      30  

(iii) to the extent not reimbursed by actual or potential Portfolio Companies, other expenses of
the Company incurred in connection with the ongoing operation and administration of the Company that are not included in the definition of  Manager Expenses , including the Management Fee; and  
 (iv) non-routine or extraordinary expenses of the Company, including any litigation-related expense, indemnification obligation and any other
indemnity, contribution or reimbursement obligations of the Company with respect to any Person, whether payable in connection with a proceeding involving the Company or otherwise, and premiums for related insurance, if any.  
 ARTICLE 8  
 D ISTRIBUTIONS ; A LLOCATIONS ; C APITAL  A CCOUNTS   
 Section 8.01.  Distributions Generally.  Subject to the provisions of Section 11.01, distributions shall be made in accordance
with this Article 8. Except as expressly set forth below, all calculations with respect to distributions shall be made on an  Investment-by-Investment  basis.  
 Section 8.02.  Distributions of Proceeds of Investments . Subject to Section 8.05, and to amounts being lawfully available for
the purpose, distributions of Proceeds in respect of a particular Investment will be made in respect of the Class I Shares and the Class II Shares until the holders of the Class I Shares and the Class II Shares have received, on a cumulative basis
and without duplication, the amounts set forth below in the following order of priority:    (a) first, 100% to the holders of Class I Shares
( pro rata  in accordance with the amount of Capital Contributions made by such holders in respect of such Investment) until the aggregate amount distributed in respect of the relevant Investment equals the aggregate amount of Capital
Contributions made in respect of such Investment plus the Priority Return;    (b) second, 100% to the holders of Class I Shares ( pro
rata  in accordance with the amount of Capital Contributions made by such holders in respect of previously realized Investments) until the aggregate amount distributed in respect of previously realized Investments equals the aggregate amount of
Capital Contributions made in respect of such previously realized Investments plus the Priority Return;    (c) third, 100% to the holder of
the Class I-A Shares until the aggregate amount distributed equals the amount of Capital Contributions made in respect of Management Fees theretofore paid that the Manager determines in good faith should be returned pursuant to this clause third in
order to reflect the cost basis of the portion of the Company s aggregate portfolio represented by the relevant Investment and the previously realized Investments (measured relative to the cost basis of all realized and unrealized Investments)
plus the Priority Return on such amount of Management Fees;  
      31  

(d) fourth, 100% to the holders of Class I Shares ( pro rata  in accordance with the amount
of Capital Contributions made by such holders in respect of Qualifying Company Expenses) until the aggregate amount distributed equals the amount of Capital Contributions made in respect of Company Expenses (whether or not attributable to any
Investment and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding the Management Fee) theretofore paid that the Manager determines in good faith should be returned pursuant to this clause fourth in order to reflect the cost basis of the portion of the
Company s aggregate portfolio represented by the relevant Investment and the previously realized Investments (measured relative to the cost basis of all realized and unrealized Investments) (such amount of Company Expenses, the
  Qualifying Company Expenses  ) plus the Priority Return;    (e) fifth, either:  
 (i) if the Quarterly Value of the Company s unrealized Investments is less than the aggregate amount of Capital Contributions made in
respect of such unrealized Investments, 100% to the holders of Class I Shares ( pro rata  in accordance with the amount of Capital Contributions made by such holders in respect of unrealized Investments) until the aggregate amount distributed
equals the amount of the unrealized loss; or    (ii) if the Quarterly Value of the Company s unrealized Investments is greater than
the amount equal to (x) the aggregate amount of Capital Contributions made in respect of such unrealized Investments minus (y) the aggregate amount previously distributed to the holders of Class I Shares pursuant to subclause (i) of
this clause (e) on account of then existing net unrealized losses in respect of such unrealized Investments (such excess amount, the  unrealized gain  at such time), 100% to the holder of Class II Shares until the aggregate amount
distributed equals (A) 14.286% multiplied by (B) the amount of such unrealized gain ( provided  that the amount of such unrealized gain taken into account for purposes of this calculation shall not exceed the aggregate amount
previously distributed to the holders of Class I Shares pursuant to subclause (i) of this clause (e) and such previously distributed amounts shall relate to Investments that are unrealized Investments at the time of the distribution
pursuant to this subclause (ii));    (f) sixth, 87.5% to the holder of the Class II Shares and 12.5% to the holders of the Class I Shares
( pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Capital Contributions made by the holders of the Class I Shares, other than Capital Contributions made by the holder of the Class I-A Shares to fund the Management Fee) until the holder of
the Class II Shares has received, as a  catch up  distribution with respect to its Class II Shares, 12.5% of all distributions made, less aggregate Capital Contributions (including Capital Contributions made to pay Company Expenses,
including Management Fees) returned, pursuant to clauses (a) through (d) above and this clause (f); and    (g) thereafter, 87.5%
to the holders of the Class I Shares ( pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Capital Contributions made by the holders of the Class I Shares, other than Capital Contributions made by the holder of the Class I-A Shares to fund
the Management Fee) and 12.5% to the holder of the Class II Shares.  
      32  

Section 8.03.  Other Provisions Applicable to Distributions .  
 (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,  
 (i) it shall not be necessary to recover capital in respect of any realized Investment under clause (a) or (b) of Section 8.02
if such capital has been previously recovered by virtue of a distribution under subclause (i) of clause (e) of Section 8.02 (which distribution, for the avoidance of doubt, has not been offset by a corresponding distribution under
subclause (ii) of clause (e) of Section 8.02);  provided ,  however , that for the avoidance of doubt, in the case any capital in respect of any realized Investment has been recovered by virtue of such a distribution
under subclause (i) of clause (e) of Section 8.02, it shall remain necessary to make distributions of the Priority Return under clause (b) of Section 8.02 in respect of such recovered capital to the extent prior distributions under
clause (a) of Section 8.02 have been insufficient to satisfy the full amount of such Priority Return; and    (ii) it shall not be
necessary to make any distribution in respect of any unrealized loss under subclause (i) of clause (e) of Section 8.02 if there has been a previous distribution in respect of the amount of such loss under subclause (i) of clause
(e) of Section 8.02;  provided, however , that for the avoidance of doubt, it shall remain necessary to make distributions under subclause (i) of clause (e) of Section 8.02 in respect of subsequent unrealized losses with
respect to the same Investment.    (b) It is understood that for purposes of Section 8.02, (i) a  realized Investment 
will mean any Investment that has been sold, otherwise disposed of or permanently and fully written off, and an  unrealized Investment  will mean any Investment that has not been sold, otherwise disposed of or permanently and fully written
off, in each case as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion and (ii) any Investment that is partially sold or otherwise disposed of shall be treated as two (or more, as appropriate) separate Investments and the Capital
Contributions in respect of such Investment shall be allocated among such two (or more, as appropriate) separate Investments, in each case as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion.  
 (c) In the event a recapitalization or similar transaction in respect of any Investment results in the receipt by the Company of any
extraordinary dividends or similar proceeds (  Recap Dividends  ), such transaction shall be treated as a partial disposition of the applicable Investment equal to the amount of such Recap Dividends received (and for purposes of
Section 8.02 Capital Contributions in respect of the relevant Investment shall be allocated  pro rata  between such Recap Dividends and the remaining Investment based upon the relative amount of such Recap Dividends and the Fair Market Value of
the remaining Investment immediately after giving effect to the payment of such Recap Dividends, as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion;  provided  that where such Investment consists of Publicly Traded Securities, such
determination shall be based on the relative trading prices of such Publicly Traded Securities on the principal securities exchange on which such securities are traded prior to and after the record date for the Recap Dividend.  
      33  

(d) In the case of any ordinary dividends, interest or similar amounts received in respect of any
unrealized Investment, such ordinary dividends, interest or similar amounts shall not be treated as a disposition of the applicable Investment and such unrealized Investment shall not be taken into account in determining the amount of Management
Fees or Company Expenses that are to be returned pursuant to clauses (c) and (d) of Section 8.02.    (e) Any amounts of
Capital Contributions that are not used to make Investments or to satisfy Company Expenses (including as Temporary Cash Funds) or to pay the Management Fee, together with any net income thereon, shall be returned by the Company to the Shareholders,
in the same relative proportions as the Shareholders made such Capital Contributions, promptly following the determination by the Manager that such amounts will not be used for the purpose for which the relevant Capital Contributions were made,
subject to amounts being lawfully available to effect such return and subject to the right of the Company to retain reasonable reserves for contingencies, expenses and liabilities. Any such returned Capital Contributions shall remain available for
recall by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.    Section 8.04.  Tax Distributions.  To the extent of
available cash as determined in the reasonable discretion of the Manager, and to amounts being lawfully available for the purpose, at the option of each Shareholder from time to time, the Company shall make distributions in cash to such Shareholder
in an amount necessary to pay combined federal, state and local income tax, determined based on the Tax Rate, in respect of the net taxable income and gain allocated to such Shareholder in respect of any taxable year of the Company. For purposes of
applying the other provisions of this Article 8, any distribution that is made pursuant to this Section 8.04 shall be treated as an advance against distributions otherwise to be made pursuant to the other provisions of this Article 8.  
 Section 8.05.  Other General Principles of Distribution .  
 (a)  Distributions of Cash . Subject to Section 8.05(c) and Section 11.01(b), and to amounts being lawfully available for the
purpose, distributions of Proceeds shall be made as promptly as practicable after their receipt by the Company. All distributions pursuant to this Section 8.05(a) shall be made in immediately available funds in (x) U.S. dollars, except to
the extent that distributions in U.S. dollars would be illegal or impracticable under Applicable Law, in which case, to such extent, distributions shall be made in the currency in which cash is received by the Company or (y) Marketable
Securities.    (b)  Distributions in Kind . Prior to the commencement of the winding up of the Company, the Company shall not make any
distributions in kind of securities unless such securities are Marketable Securities. Following the commencement of the winding up of the Company, subject to Section 11.01(b), the Company may distribute in kind any securities (whether or not
Marketable Securities) or other property constituting all or any portion of an Investment in such amounts as the Company shall in its reasonable  
      34  

discretion determine. In any distribution of property in kind, the Company shall not discriminate among the Shareholders but shall in any such distribution (i) distribute to the Shareholders
property of the same type and (ii) if cash and property in kind are to be distributed simultaneously in respect of any Investment, distribute cash and property in kind in the same proportion to each Shareholder. For purposes of distributions
pursuant to Section 8.02 and allocations pursuant to Section 8.07, (A) Marketable Securities shall be valued at the average of their closing sale prices on the principal securities exchange on which such securities were traded on each
trading day during the five trading day period ending immediately prior to such distribution, or if such securities are not primarily traded on a securities exchange, the five day average of their closing bid prices as shown by the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or comparable established over-the-counter trading system consisting of the five trading day period immediately prior to such distribution and (B) all other property to be distributed
in kind shall be valued at the Fair Market Value thereof determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion on a date as near as reasonably practicable to the date of notice of such distribution.  
 (c)  Amounts Held in Reserve . Subject to Section 8.04, the Company shall have the right to retain up to $2,000,000,000 of amounts
otherwise distributable by the Company to the Shareholders (  Distributable Amounts    provided  that, after the termination of the Commitment Period in accordance with the terms hereof, (i) the Company shall retain
Distributable Amounts only in an amount not greater than the amount necessary to make such provision as the Manager deems necessary or advisable, in its reasonable discretion, for liabilities and obligations, contingent or otherwise, of the Company;
 provided ,  however  that such liabilities and obligations shall not include the obligation to pay for the purchase price of Investments except pursuant to commitments of the Company in effect at such time; and (ii) any amount held
by the Company as of the termination of the Commitment Period in excess of the amounts permitted to be retained pursuant to the preceding clause (i) shall be promptly distributed to the Shareholders. To the extent that any Investment is funded
with Distributable Amounts retained by the Company pursuant to this Section 8.05(c), such Investment shall, for purposes of Section 8.02, be treated as the same Investment as the initial Investment whose realization resulted in such Distributable
Amounts (or in the Distributable Amounts that were used to fund any intermediate Investment whose realization resulted in the Distributable Amounts used to fund such Investment).  
 (d)  Tax Withholding.  The Company is authorized to withhold and pay over to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or to any other relevant
taxing authority, such amounts as the Company is required to withhold and pay over pursuant to the Code or any other Applicable Law in respect of any Shareholder (including (i) to satisfy any outstanding tax liability of a Shareholder or
(ii) any such amounts withheld against the Company with respect to a Shareholder). For purposes of this Agreement, any taxes so withheld by the Company in respect of any Shareholder shall be treated as if such amounts were distributed to
such Shareholder. Each Shareholder agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless from and against any U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax liabilities, and any interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts
 
      35  

related thereto, arising from a determination that the Company failed to withhold tax with respect to such Shareholder under any provision of the Code or of any state, local or non-U.S. tax law;
 provided  that a Shareholder shall not be required to indemnify the Company, and the Manager shall instead indemnify the Company, with respect to such interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts that are imposed as a result of
a failure by the Company to withhold tax with respect to such Shareholder due to the Manager s fraud, willful misconduct or recklessness.  
 (e)  Excess Transaction Fees.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, (i) any Excess Transaction Fees received
by the Company (including any Excess Transaction Fees received by the Manager or any of its Affiliates and remitted to the Company) shall be distributed to the Class I-A Shareholder and (ii) any distributions of Excess Transaction Fees to the
Class I-A Shareholder shall not be treated as having been made pursuant to Section 8.02 or 11.02 and shall not reduce the amounts that the holders of Class I Shares are entitled to receive pursuant to those Sections.  
 Section 8.06.  Capital Account . There shall be established for each Shareholder on the books and records of the Company a capital
account (a   Capital Account  ), the balance of which shall initially be zero. It is intended that each Shareholder s Capital Account shall be maintained at all times in a manner consistent with the principles of Section 704
of the Code and applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations thereunder, and that the provisions hereof relating to the Capital Accounts shall be interpreted in a manner consistent therewith. The Capital Account of each Shareholder shall be:  
 (a) credited with the amount of cash contributed by such Shareholder, and if such Shareholder makes an in-kind contribution to the Company,
with the Fair Market Value of the contributed property (net of any liabilities secured by such property that the Company assumes or to which such property is subject) as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion pursuant to
Section 8.05(b));    (b) credited with any allocations of income and gain that are made to such Shareholder pursuant to this Article 8;
   (c) debited by any allocations of loss or deduction that are made to such Shareholder pursuant to this Article 8; and  
 (d) debited by the amount of cash, the fair value of other property as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion, distributed by
the Company to such Shareholder (net of any liabilities of the Company assumed by such Shareholder and any liabilities to which such distributed property is subject).  
 Section 8.07.  Allocations . Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, as of the last day of each fiscal period, the
Company s items of income, gain, loss and deduction for such period shall be allocated as follows:    (a) Manager Expenses.  
      36  

(i) Any items of loss or deduction that are attributable to the Management Fee shall be
allocated to the holder of the Class I-A Shares.    (ii) Any items of loss or deduction that are attributable to Company Expenses funded by
or for the account of any Shareholder in accordance with Section 6.02 (for the avoidance of doubt, not to include any Management Fee) shall be allocated to such Shareholder.  
 (b)  Profits and Losses.  After giving effect to Section 8.07(a), Profits or Losses for such fiscal period (and, if necessary, items
of income, gain, loss or deduction included in the determination thereof) shall be allocated among the Shareholders in a manner consistent with the corresponding distributions made or to be made pursuant to this Article 8. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, any allocation pursuant to this Section 8.07(b) shall be made in a manner such that each Shareholder s Capital Account balance, immediately after such allocation, is as nearly as possible (and proportionately
as nearly as possible with respect to all Shareholders  Capital Accounts) equal to (i) the distributions that would be made to such Shareholder pursuant to the provisions of this Article 8 if, immediately after such allocation, the Company
were wound up, all of its assets sold for cash equal to their Carrying Values and its liabilities settled (limited, in the case of any nonrecourse liability to the Carrying Values of the assets securing such liability) and the remaining proceeds
derived from the hypothetical sale of assets were distributed pursuant to the provisions of this Article 8,  minus  (ii) the amount that such Shareholder would be obligated to contribute to the Company in connection with such hypothetical
liquidation, including any amount that ManagementCo Shareholder would be required to contribute to the Company pursuant to Section 11.02, and any amount that such Shareholder would be deemed, immediately prior to the Company s hypothetical
sale of assets, to be obligated to restore to the Company pursuant to the penultimate sentence of U.S. Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5),  plus  (iii) in the case of a Class I-A Shareholder, the amount that
would be distributable to such Class I-A Shareholder pursuant to Section 11.02 in connection with such hypothetical liquidation.  
 Section 8.08.  Special Allocations . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8.07, the following special allocations shall be
made:    (a)  Minimum Gain Chargebacks.  Items of Company income and gain shall be allocated among the Shareholders at such times and
in such manner as may be necessary to satisfy the minimum gain chargeback requirements of U.S. Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-2(f) and 1.704-2(i)(4).  
 (b)  Qualified Income Offset.  Items of Company income and gain shall be allocated at such times and in such manner as may be necessary
to satisfy the  qualified income offset  requirement of U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii) (d) .    (c)
 Nonrecourse Deductions.  To the extent that the allocation of any  nonrecourse deductions  (within the meaning of U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(1)) would not otherwise satisfy the requirements of U.S. Treasury
Regulations Section 1.704-2(e), such nonrecourse deductions shall be allocated in a manner that satisfies such requirements, as determined by the Manager in its reasonable discretion.  
      37  

(d)  Gross Income Allocation.  In the event that any Shareholder has, or would otherwise
have, a deficit Capital Account balance that is in excess of the amount such Shareholder is treated as being obligated to restore pursuant to the penultimate sentences of U.S. Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5), items of
Company income and gain in the amount of such excess shall be allocated to such Shareholder;  provided  that an allocation pursuant to this Section 8.08(d) shall be made only if and to the extent that such Shareholder would have such a
deficit Capital Account balance after all other allocations provided for in this Article 8 have been made as if Section 8.08(b) and this Section 8.08(d) were not in this Agreement.  
 (e)  Curative Allocations.  The allocations required pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 8.08 (the
  Regulatory Allocations  ) shall be taken into account for purposes of allocating other items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Shareholders so that each Shareholder s Capital Account balance is, to the extent
possible, equal to the Capital Account balance such Shareholder would have had if the Regulatory Allocations were not part of this Agreement and all allocations were made pursuant to Section 8.07.  
 (f) The Manager is authorized to modify any and all of the allocation provisions under Sections 8.07 and 8.08 to the extent that, in the
reasonable judgment of the Manager and based upon advice of tax advisors to the Manager, such modifications are necessary to reflect the economic entitlements of the Shareholders and to comply with Section 704 of the Code and applicable U.S.
Treasury Regulations.    Section 8.09.  Revaluations . Upon the occurrence of any event specified in U.S. Treasury Regulations  Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(f),  the Manager may cause the Capital Accounts of the Shareholders to be adjusted to reflect the Fair Market Value of the Company s assets at such time, as determined by the
Manager in its reasonable discretion;  provided  that the Manager has received the prior written consent of the Class I-A Shareholder to such revaluation.  
 Section 8.10.  Tax Allocations .  
 (a) For U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes, each item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit of the Company shall be
allocated among the Shareholders as nearly as possible in the same manner as the corresponding items are allocated pursuant to the other provisions of this Article 8.  
 (b) All items of income, gain, loss and deduction with respect to any Company asset that has a Carrying Value that differs from its adjusted
tax basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes shall be allocated so as to take into account the variation between the Carrying Value and the adjusted tax basis in accordance with the principles of Section 704(c) of the Code and the U.S.
Treasury Regulations thereunder.  
      38  

Section 8.11.  Change in Interests During a Tax Year . If any Shareholder s
interest in the Company changes during any Tax Year allocations pursuant to this Article 8 shall be made in a manner that takes into account the varying interest of the Shareholders in the Company during such Tax Year, as required by
Section 706(d) of the Code, under such method as the Manager may determine in its reasonable discretion;  provided  that the Manager shall cause the Company to adopt the  closing-of-the-books  method for the allocation of any
items of income, gain, loss or deduction attributable to a Transfer pursuant to Section 5.03.    ARTICLE 9  
 R IGHT   OF  F IRST  O FFER   
 Section 9.01.  Right of First Offer.    
 (a) If the Company desires to Transfer any Portfolio Company Securities or any other assets or any controlled Portfolio Company desires to
transfer all or substantially all of its assets (collectively, including Portfolio Company Securities,   ROFO Assets  ) to any Person (other than (i) the Transfer by the Company of Portfolio Company Securities and (ii) the
Transfer by a Portfolio Company of assets that, in each case, have been pledged, encumbered or hypothecated to secure any Debt of the applicable Portfolio Company upon the exercise of remedies in respect thereof), the Company shall give notice (an
  Offer Notice  ) to Comcast Shareholder that the Company or such Portfolio Company desires to make such a Transfer and that sets forth the number and kind of ROFO Assets proposed to be Transferred by the Company or such Portfolio
Company (the   Offered ROFO Assets  ), the price at which the Company or such Portfolio Company proposes to Transfer such Offered ROFO Assets (the   Offer Price  ) and any other material terms and conditions of the
proposed Transfer;  provided ,  however , that the Company shall not be required to give an Offer Notice to Comcast Shareholder with respect to (and Comcast Shareholder shall have no right under this Section 9.01 with respect to) the
proposed Transfer of any Portfolio Company Securities if the Portfolio Company issuing such Portfolio Securities is not a Subsidiary of the Company (assuming solely for this purpose that the last sentence in the definition of the term
 Subsidiary  in Section 1.01 were deleted) and the rights of Comcast under this Section 9.01 would be inconsistent with the terms of such Portfolio Securities or any contractual or other legally binding provision applicable to the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries or to such Portfolio Securities;  provided, further , that in connection with an Investment in a Portfolio Company that is not a Subsidiary of the Company (assuming solely for this purpose that the last sentence in
the definition of the term  Subsidiary  in Section 1.01 were deleted), if the Manager determines in its good faith discretion that it would be reasonably likely through the exercise of commercially reasonable efforts to be able to make
such Investment without accepting any such inconsistent terms or provisions so as to preserve Comcast Shareholder s rights under this Section 9.01, then the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to make such Investment without
accepting any such inconsistent terms or provisions.  
      39  

(b) The giving of an Offer Notice to Comcast Shareholder shall constitute an offer (the
  Offer  ) by the Company or such Portfolio Company to Transfer all (but not less than all) of the Offered ROFO Assets to Comcast Shareholder or an Affiliate of Comcast Shareholder designated by Comcast Shareholder (  Comcast
ROFO Purchaser  ) for cash at the Offer Price applicable to such Offered ROFO Assets and otherwise on the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer Notice. Comcast ROFO Purchaser shall have a 30-day period (the   Offer
Period  ) in which to accept such Offer by giving a notice of acceptance to the Company prior to the expiration of such Offer Period. If Comcast ROFO Purchaser fails to notify the Company, prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, of
acceptance of the terms of the Offer, Comcast ROFO Purchaser shall be deemed to have declined the Offer with respect to such portion of the Offered ROFO Assets.  
 (c) The Company shall provide, and shall cause any controlled Portfolio Company and use reasonable best efforts to cause any other Portfolio
Company to provide, to Comcast ROFO Purchaser all information it may reasonably request in the course of determining whether to accept any Offer.  
 (d) If Comcast ROFO Purchaser elects to purchase any Offered ROFO Assets, Comcast ROFO Purchaser shall purchase and pay, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds to an account designated by the Company, for such Offered ROFO Assets within 20 Business Days after the date on which Comcast ROFO Purchaser accepted the Offer pertaining to such Offered ROFO Assets;  provided  that,
if the Transfer of such Offered ROFO Assets is subject to any prior regulatory approval, the time period during which such Transfer may be consummated shall be extended until the expiration of five Business Days after all such approvals shall have
been received;  provided, further,  that in lieu of a payment of cash by Comcast ROFO Purchaser with respect to such Offered ROFO Assets, at the written request of the Comcast ROFO Purchaser, Comcast ROFO Purchaser and the Company agree to use
commercially reasonable efforts to devise and implement an alternative structure to Transfer such Offered ROFO Assets to Comcast ROFO Purchaser in a tax-efficient manner,  provided  such alternative structure places ManagementCo Shareholder in
the same economic position (taking into account the tax consequences of the alternative structure as compared to the tax consequences of a payment of cash by Comcast ROFO Purchaser) as if Comcast ROFO Purchaser had purchased such Offered ROFO Assets
in cash. Comcast ROFO Purchaser, the Company and all Shareholders of the Company shall cooperate, and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Portfolio Company to cooperate, in good faith in implementing any alternative
structure agreed to pursuant to this Section 9.01(d).    (e) With respect to any Offered ROFO Assets, upon the earlier to occur of
(i) rejection of the Offer pertaining to such Offered ROFO Assets by Comcast ROFO Purchaser and (ii) the ultimate failure to obtain any required consent or regulatory approval for the purchase of such Offered ROFO Assets by Comcast ROFO
Purchaser, the Company or the applicable Portfolio Company shall have a 270-day period during which to effect a Transfer of such Offered ROFO Assets at a price not less than 95% of the Offer Price and otherwise on terms no less favorable to the
Company or the applicable Portfolio Company than those set forth in the Offer Notice (other than in an  
      40  

immaterial respect);  provided  that, if the Company or the applicable Portfolio Company enters into a definitive agreement providing for the Transfer within such 270-day period and the
Transfer is subject to regulatory approval, such 270-day period shall be extended until the expiration of five Business Days after all such approvals shall have been received, but in no event shall such regulatory extension exceed 120 days. If the
Company or any Portfolio Company does not consummate the Transfer of any of the Offered ROFO Assets in accordance with the foregoing time limitations, then the right of the Company or such Portfolio Company to effect the Transfer of such Offered
ROFO Assets pursuant to this Section 9.01(e) shall terminate and the Company and such Portfolio Company shall again comply with the procedures set forth in this Section 9.01(e) with respect to any proposed Transfer of Offered ROFO Assets
to any Person.    ARTICLE 10  
 C ERTAIN  C OVENANTS   AND  A GREEMENTS   
 Section 10.01.  Confidentiality .  
 (a) Comcast Shareholder shall, and shall cause each of its Affiliates and Representatives to, maintain the confidentiality of and not use for
any purpose (other than in connection with the matters contemplated by this Agreement) any information furnished to it under this Agreement or by or on behalf of the Company, including any information regarding the Company s Investments,
Portfolio Companies or prospective Investments or Portfolio Companies (collectively, the   Company Confidential Information    provided  that Company Confidential Information shall not include information that (1) is or
becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by Comcast Shareholder or any of the directors, officers, employees, stockholders, members, partners, agents, counsel, investment and financial advisers, accountants,
auditors or other representatives (all such persons being collectively referred to as   Representatives  ) of Comcast Shareholder in violation of this Agreement, (2) was available to Comcast Shareholder on a non-confidential
basis prior to its disclosure to Comcast Shareholder or its Representatives by the Company, (3) was obtained by Comcast Shareholder from a third party who, insofar as known to Comcast Shareholder, is not prohibited from transmitting the
information to Comcast Shareholder by a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation to the Company or any of its Affiliates or (4) is necessary in connection with a tax audit;  provided ,  further , that Comcast Shareholder may
disclose Company Confidential Information:    (i) to its Representatives in the normal course of the performance of their duties or to any
financial institution providing or that may provide credit to Comcast Shareholder or any of its Affiliates (provided that such information is maintained in confidence by the party to whom it is disclosed in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 10.01(a) and Comcast shall be responsible for the failure of any such party to maintain such information in confidence);    (ii) to
the extent required by Applicable Law, including any listing agreement with any national securities exchange (including complying with any oral or written questions, interrogatories, requests for information or documents, subpoena, civil
 
      41  

investigative demand or similar process to which Comcast Shareholder or any of its Affiliates is subject;  provided  that (except with respect to any matters covered by clause
(iii) below) Comcast Shareholder agrees to give the Company prompt notice of such request, to the extent practicable, so that the Company may seek an appropriate protective order or similar relief);  
 (iii) to any regulatory authority or rating agency to which Comcast Shareholder or any of its Affiliates is subject or with which it has
regular dealings;  provided  that such authority or agency is advised of the confidential nature of the Company Confidential Information;  
 (iv) to the extent related to the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;  provided  that
the foregoing does not constitute an authorization to disclose information identifying any party to this Agreement or any Affiliate of a party (except to the extent relating to such tax structure or tax treatment) or any Company Confidential
Information unrelated to such tax structure or tax treatment; or    (v) if the prior written consent of the Company shall have been
obtained.    Nothing contained herein shall prevent the use (subject, to the extent possible, to a protective order) of Company Confidential Information in
connection with the assertion or defense of any claim by or against the Company or any Shareholder.    (b) The Company shall, and shall
cause each of its Affiliates and Representatives to, maintain the confidentiality of and not use for any purpose (other than in connection with the matters contemplated by this Agreement) any information furnished to it regarding Comcast Shareholder
or its Affiliates under this Agreement (collectively,   Comcast Confidential Information    provided  that Comcast Confidential Information shall not include information that (1) is or becomes generally available to the
public other than as a result of a disclosure by the Company or its Affiliates or any of their Representatives in violation of this Agreement, (2) was available to the Company or its Affiliates on a non-confidential basis prior to its
disclosure to the Company or its Representatives by Comcast Shareholder, (3) was obtained by the Company from a third party who, insofar as known to the Company, is not prohibited from transmitting the information to the Company by a
contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation to Comcast Shareholder or any of its Affiliates or (4) is necessary in connection with a tax audit;  provided ,  however , that the Manager may disclose such information:  
 (i) to its Representatives in the normal course of the performance of their duties or to any financial institution providing or that may
provide credit to the Company or any of its Affiliates ( provided  that such information is maintained in confidence by the party to whom it is disclosed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.01(b) and the Company shall be
responsible for the failure of any such party to maintain such information in confidence);  
      42  

(ii) to the extent required by Applicable Law (including complying with any oral or written
questions, interrogatories, requests for information or documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar process to which the Company or any of its Affiliates is subject;  provided  that (except with respect to any matters covered by
clause (iii) below) the Company agrees to give Comcast Shareholder prompt notice of such request, to the extent practicable, so that Comcast Shareholder may seek an appropriate protective order or similar relief);  
 (iii) to any regulatory authority or rating agency to which the Company, the Manager or any of their respective Affiliates is subject or with
which it has regular dealings;  provided  that such authority or agency is advised of the confidential nature of the Comcast Confidential Information;  
 (iv) to the extent related to the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;  provided  that
the foregoing does not constitute an authorization to disclose information identifying any party to this Agreement or any Affiliate of a party (except to the extent relating to such tax structure or tax treatment) or any Comcast Confidential
Information unrelated to such tax structure or tax treatment; or    (v) if the prior written consent of Comcast Shareholder shall have been
obtained.    Nothing contained herein shall prevent the use (subject, to the extent possible, to a protective order) of Comcast Confidential Information in
connection with the assertion or defense of any claim by or against the Company or any Shareholder.    (c) Each Shareholder and the Company
shall consult with the others before issuing any press release or making any public statement with respect to this agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, except as may be required by Applicable Law, including any listing agreement with
any national securities exchange;  provided , that any press release or public statement issued by the Company or its Affiliates shall require the Comcast Shareholder s prior written approval if it (i) refers to Comcast, Comcast
Shareholder or any of their Affiliates or (ii) discloses any information regarding the aggregate financial performance of the Company (for the avoidance of doubt, not including the financial performance of, or the financial terms of the
acquisition or disposition of, any individual Investment) for any period and is made prior to the time at which Comcast has publicly disclosed its financial results for such period. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that press releases
issued by, or other public statements made by, the Company regarding matters in the ordinary course of the Company s business (including any press releases or statements regarding acquisitions or dispositions of Investments, hiring of personnel
and other similar matters) shall not be deemed to be a press release or other public statement with respect to the  transactions contemplated hereby  within the meaning of the immediately preceding sentence.  
 (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Comcast Shareholder s and its Representatives  obligations in this
Section 10.01 shall, in each case, not be  
      43  

deemed to be breached by any disclosure by NBCUniversal Media, LLC or any other of Comcast Shareholder s Affiliates in the ordinary course of their business of disseminating news and
information;  provided  that the individuals involved in such dissemination received such Company Confidential Information from a source other than the personnel of Comcast Shareholder or its Representatives involved in the matters contemplated
by this Agreement.    Section 10.02.  Reports .  
 (a) The Company agrees to furnish to each Shareholder:  
 (i) to the extent such information is available, as soon as practicable and, in any event, within 45 days after the end of each fiscal month,
the summary financial information, prepared for internal reporting purposes, of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries (assuming, for all purposes of this Section 10.02 and Section 10.03 that the last sentence in the definition of
the term  Subsidiary  in Section 1.01 were deleted) as at the end of and for such month;    (ii) as soon as practicable and,
in any event, within 45 days after the end of each fiscal quarter of each fiscal year, the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and the related unaudited statement of
operations and cash flow for such quarter and for the portion of the fiscal year then ended, in each case prepared in accordance with GAAP; and  
 (iii) as soon as practicable and, in any event, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, (A) the audited consolidated balance
sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year and the related audited statement of operations and cash flow for such fiscal year, and for the portion of the fiscal year then ended, in each case prepared in
accordance with GAAP and certified by Deloitte   Touche LLP or another firm of independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing.  
 (b) The Company shall:    (i)
permit Comcast Shareholder, its independent public accountants and its other Representatives, upon reasonable prior notice and during normal business hours, to examine the books, records and accounts of the Company; and  
 (ii) permit Comcast Shareholder and its Representatives, upon reasonable prior notice and during normal business hours, to visit and inspect
any of the properties of the Company and discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company with the independent certified public accountants of the Company for purposes which may include procedures performed in connection with Comcast s
evaluation of internal controls pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002;  provided  that such investigation does not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the Company.  
      44  

Section 10.03.  Other Information and Assistance . If at any time the Company and its
consolidated Subsidiaries are or will be consolidated in Comcast s statement of financial position (it being understood that the determination of whether the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries are so consolidated shall be made by Comcast
in its sole judgment), the Company shall, shall cause its consolidated Subsidiaries to and shall use reasonable best efforts to cause Deloitte   Touche LLP or another firm of independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing
to provide all other financial information and assistance as reasonably requested by Comcast for purposes of preparing such consolidated financial statements and management s report on internal control over financial reporting and complying
with Comcast s related obligations under Applicable Law, including the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Comcast shall reimburse the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for all out-of-pocket expenses incurred in providing
any financial information and assistance under this Section 10.03 that is not otherwise required to be provided under Section 10.02.  
 Section 10.04.  Conflicting Agreements . The Company and each Shareholder represents and agrees that it shall not (i) grant any
proxy or enter into or agree to be bound by any voting trust or agreement with respect to the Company Securities, except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement, or (ii) enter into any agreement or arrangement of any kind with any Person
with respect to any Company Securities inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or for the purpose or with the effect of denying or reducing the rights of any other Shareholder under this Agreement, including agreements or arrangements
with respect to the Transfer or voting of its Company Securities.    Section 10.05.  Business Opportunity.  The Company and each
of the Shareholders recognize and acknowledge that (x) the Company, Comcast Shareholder and their Affiliates engage, or intend to engage, in a wide variety of activities, (y) some of these activities presently or may in the future involve
the participation in businesses and activities that may be similar to those of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Portfolio Companies, on the one hand, or Comcast Shareholder and its Affiliates, on the other hand, and (z) subject to the terms
of this Agreement, it is critical that the Company, Comcast Shareholder and their Affiliates be permitted to continue to develop their current and future business and investment activities without any restriction. In light of the foregoing
considerations, the Company and each of the Shareholders acknowledge and agree as follows:    (a) To the fullest extent permitted by
Applicable Law, except as otherwise provided in Article 4 or Section 10.18, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any other analogous doctrine, shall not apply with respect to the Company or any Shareholder. Except as otherwise provided in
Article 4 or Section 10.18, (x) no Shareholder nor any of its Affiliates shall have any obligation to refrain from (i) engaging in the same or similar activities or lines of business as the Company or any Portfolio Company or
developing or marketing any products or services that compete, directly or indirectly, with those of the Company or any Portfolio Company, (ii) investing or owning any interest publicly or privately in, or developing a business relationship
with, any Person engaged in the same or similar activities or lines of business as, or otherwise in competition with, the  
      45  

Company or any Portfolio Company or (iii) employing or otherwise engaging a former officer or employee of the Company or any Portfolio Company and (y) neither the Company nor any of its
Affiliates shall have any obligation to refrain from (i) engaging in the same or similar activities or lines of business as any Shareholder or any of its Affiliates or developing or marketing any products or services that compete, directly or
indirectly, with those of any Shareholder or any of its Affiliates or (ii) investing or owning any interest publicly or privately in, or developing a business relationship with, any Person engaged in the same or similar activities or lines of
business as, or otherwise in competition with, any Shareholder or any of its Affiliates.    (b) Notwithstanding any duty otherwise existing
under Applicable Law or in equity, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, except as otherwise provided in Article 4 or Section 10.18, if the Company or any of its Affiliates, Subsidiaries or Portfolio Companies, or Comcast
Shareholder or any of its Affiliates, as the case may be, acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a business opportunity for both the Company or its Affiliates, Subsidiaries or Portfolio Companies, on the one hand, and
Comcast Shareholder or its Affiliates, on the other hand, neither the Company or any such Affiliate, Subsidiary or Portfolio Company of the Company, nor Comcast Shareholder or any such Affiliate of Comcast Shareholder, as the case may be, shall have
a duty to communicate or offer such business opportunity to the other, and neither the Company or any such Affiliate, Subsidiary or Portfolio Company of the Company, nor Comcast Shareholder or any such Affiliate of Comcast Shareholder, as the case
may be, shall be liable to the other in respect of any such matter (including for any breach of fiduciary or other duties) by reason of the fact that the Company or any of its Affiliates, Subsidiaries or Portfolio Companies, or Comcast Shareholder
or any of its Affiliates, as the case may be, pursues or acquires such business opportunity for itself.    Section 10.06.
 Indemnification; Exculpation; Advancement of Expenses .    (a) The Company shall indemnify, and hold harmless each Indemnified Party
from and against any and all damage, loss, liability and expense (including reasonable expenses of investigation and reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses) incurred by such Indemnified Party before, on or after the date of this Agreement
(collectively, the   Indemnified Liabilities  ), arising out of any actual or threatened action, cause of action, suit, proceeding or claim arising directly or indirectly out of such Indemnified Party s or any related Indemnified
Party s ownership of Company Securities, status as a shareholder or Manager, actual, alleged or deemed control or ability to influence the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Portfolio Companies or actual or alleged act or omission in
connection with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the direct or indirect Investments or prospective Investments or other business, activities, operations or affairs of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any such Indemnified
Liabilities in respect of any act or omission constituting fraud, willful misconduct or recklessness), including with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, any act or omission taken by such Indemnified Party without reasonable cause to
believe such conduct was unlawful and including any Indemnified Liabilities arising under Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974;  provided  that if and to the extent that the foregoing undertaking may be unavailable or
unenforceable for any reason, the Company hereby agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction of each of the Indemnified Liabilities which is permissible under Applicable Law.  
      46  

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.06(a), no Indemnified Party shall be
entitled to any indemnification or contribution under this Section 10.06(a) in respect of any Indemnified Liabilities consisting of an investment or other loss in respect of any Company Assets or otherwise attributable to any such loss
(including any diminution in the value of the investment of a Shareholder in the Company). Nothing in the immediately preceding sentence shall be deemed to limit (i) a Shareholder s right to make any claim in respect of any investment or
other loss in respect of any Company Assets that such Shareholder would be entitled to make if the immediately preceding sentence was not included in this Agreement and such Shareholder was not an Indemnified Party or (ii) each Manager
Indemnified Party s right to indemnification or contribution pursuant to Section 10.06(a) in respect of any Indemnified Liabilities consisting of any other Person s (including any other Manager Indemnified Party s) investment or
other loss in respect of any Company Assets or otherwise attributable to any such loss.    (b) The right to indemnification conferred in
Section 10.06(a) shall also include the right to be paid by the Company the expenses (including reasonable expenses of investigation and reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses) incurred in connection with such action, cause of action,
suit, proceeding or claim in advance of its final disposition to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law;  provided  that the payment of such expenses in advance of the final disposition of an action, cause of action, suit, proceeding or
claim shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnified Party to repay all amounts so paid in advance if it shall be determined by a court or other tribunal of proper jurisdiction that such
Indemnified Party is not entitled to indemnification under Section 10.06(a).    (c) Each Indemnified Party may consult with recognized,
outside legal counsel, accountants and other professional advisors selected by the Company; and any action or omission taken or suffered in good faith in reliance and in accordance with the opinion or advice of such counsel, accountants or other
professional advisors (which the Indemnified Party reasonably believes to be an opinion or advice within such advisor s professional competence) shall be conclusive evidence that such action or omission did not constitute fraud, willful
misconduct or recklessness, and with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, was taken or suffered without reasonable cause to believe such Indemnified Party s conduct was unlawful. Unless there is a specific finding of fraud, willful
misconduct, recklessness or reasonable cause by a party to believe that such party s conduct was unlawful (or where such a finding is an essential element of a judgment or order), the termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment,
order or settlement, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption for purposes of Section 10.06(a) that the party in question acted fraudulently, engaged in willful misconduct, was reckless, or with
respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such party s conduct was unlawful.  
      47  

(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.06, if an Indemnified Party may
be entitled to be indemnified by a Portfolio Company, is insured by an insurer providing insurance coverage under an insurance policy issued to such Portfolio Company and/or may be entitled to be indemnified by any Upper Tier Indemnitor for any
damages, losses, liabilities or expenses as to which such Indemnified Party also would be entitled to be indemnified by the Company pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.06 (i) it is intended that as among such Upper Tier
Indemnitor, the Company, and such Portfolio Company and its insurer, such Portfolio Company and its insurer will be the full indemnitor (or insurer) of first resort, the Company will be the full indemnitor of second resort, and such Upper Tier
Indemnitor will be the full indemnitor of third resort for any such damages, losses, liabilities or expenses; (ii) any amount that the Company is otherwise obligated to pay with respect to indemnification or advancement for such liabilities,
expenses or losses will be reduced by the amount such Indemnified Party receives in respect of such indemnification, advancement or insurance from such Portfolio Company and/or its insurer; (iii) the Indemnified Party will not be required first
to exhaust rights or remedies with respect to indemnification, advancement or insurance provided by such Portfolio Company and/or its insurer before the Company makes any payment to such Indemnified Party; (iv) if such Portfolio Company or its
insurer does not promptly pay such indemnification, advancement or insurance to or on behalf of the Indemnified Party for any reason, the Indemnified Party will be entitled to pursue any rights to advancement or indemnification hereunder (subject to
all of the terms and conditions of this Section 10.06); and (v) if the Company indemnifies, or advances payment for expenses to, such Indemnified Party with respect to any damages, losses, liabilities or expenses, and such Indemnified Party may
be entitled to indemnification, advancement of expenses or insurance from such Portfolio Company or its insurer, the Company may request that such Indemnified Party agree with the Company that (x) the Company will be fully subrogated to all
rights of such Indemnified Party to indemnification, advancement of expenses or insurance from such Portfolio Company and its insurer with respect to such payment; (y) such Indemnified Party will assign to the Company all of the Indemnified
Party s rights to indemnification, advancement of expenses or insurance from such Portfolio Company and its insurer; and (z) such Indemnified Party will execute all documents and take all other actions appropriate to effectuate the
foregoing clauses (x) and (y). For purposes of this Section 10.06, the term   Upper Tier Indemnitor   means the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates, other than the Company or any Portfolio
Company. In addition, solely for the purposes of this Section 10.06, the term   Portfolio Company   shall include the Person which is the Portfolio Company in accordance with the definition of such term set forth in Section 1.01
of this Agreement and each Subsidiary of such Person and any Affiliate of such Person which is controlled by such Person.    (e) To the
fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, no Indemnified Party shall be liable to the Company or its Subsidiaries or any other Shareholder for any actual or alleged act or omission arising directly or indirectly out of such Indemnified
Party s or any other Indemnified Party s ownership of Company Securities, status as a shareholder or Manager, actual, alleged or deemed control or ability to influence the Company or any  
      48  

of its Subsidiaries or Portfolio Companies or actual or alleged act or omission in connection with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the direct or indirect Investments or prospective
Investments or other business, activities, operations or affairs of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any such liabilities in respect of any act or omission constituting fraud, willful misconduct or recklessness), including with
respect to any criminal action or proceeding, any act or omission taken by such Indemnified Party without reasonable cause to believe such conduct was unlawful. For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Section 10.06(e) shall not
relieve any Indemnified Party for such Indemnified Party s contractual obligations to the Company as set forth in this Agreement or such Indemnified Party s contractual obligations to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any
Shareholder set forth in any other agreement to which any Indemnified Party may now be or in the future become party to with the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any Shareholder.  
 (f) To the extent that, at law or in equity, any Indemnified Party has duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities relating thereto to
the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the Shareholders, none of the Manager, the ManagementCo Shareholder or any other Manager Indemnified Party acting in connection with the business or affairs of the Company or its Subsidiaries shall be liable
to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any Shareholder for its good faith reliance on the provisions of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of any Manager Indemnified
Party otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Shareholders to replace such other duties and liabilities of such Manager Indemnified Party.  
 (g) The rights of any Indemnified Party to indemnification, exculpation and advancement of expenses hereunder will be in addition to any other
rights any such Person may have under any other agreement or instrument to which such Indemnified Party is or becomes a party or is or otherwise becomes a beneficiary or under Applicable Law or under the Memorandum and Articles of Association or the
certificate of incorporation or bylaws or other organizational documents of any of the Subsidiaries of the Company or any other Person. The provisions of this Section 10.06 shall continue to afford protection to each Indemnified Party in
respect of any act or omissions occurring while such Indemnified Party occupied the position or had the capacity pursuant to which such Indemnified Party became entitled to indemnification, exculpation and advancement of expenses under this
Section 10.06 regardless of whether such Indemnified Party remains in such position or capacity and regardless of any subsequent amendment to this Agreement. No amendment to this Agreement shall reduce or restrict the extent to which these
indemnification, exculpation and advancement provisions apply to actions or omissions occurring prior to the date of such amendment. The provisions of this Section 10.06 shall inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, heirs and personal
representatives of the Indemnified Parties, and the provisions of and rights under this Section 10.06 shall survive the winding up and termination of the Company.  
 (h) Each of the Indemnified Parties shall be a third party beneficiary of the rights conferred to such Indemnified Party in this
Section 10.06.  
      49  

(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing provisions of this
Section 10.06, a present or former partner, stockholder, member, director, officer, fiduciary, manager, controlling Person, employee and agent of the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any Affiliate of the Manager or ManagementCo Shareholder
shall not be entitled to indemnification, exculpation or advancement of expenses in respect of any controversy relating to any employment or similar service relationship or the termination of any such relationship or in respect of any claim or cause
of action brought against the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Company or any other Affiliate of the Manager or ManagementCo Shareholder, other than a claim or cause of action for indemnification, exculpation or advancement of expenses to
which any such Person is otherwise entitled under the provisions of this Section 10.06 or under any other agreement or instrument to which such Person is or becomes a party or is or otherwise becomes a beneficiary or under Applicable Law or
under the Memorandum and Articles of Association or the certificate of incorporation or bylaws or other organizational documents of any of the Subsidiaries of the Company or any other Person.  
 Section 10.07.  Co-Investors .  
 (a) If the Manager determines that it would be advisable to include any co-investors in connection with any Investment (including, for the
avoidance of doubt, any equity investment in a Portfolio Company after the Company s initial Investment in such Portfolio Company) (any such co-investment opportunity, a   Co-Investment Opportunity  ), it shall offer such
Co-Investment Opportunity to Comcast Shareholder or an Affiliate of Comcast Shareholder designated by Comcast Shareholder prior to offering such Co-Investment Opportunity to any other Person;  provided ,  however , that in the event the
Manager determines that it would be advisable to include in respect of any Co-Investment Opportunity one or more strategic co-investors, it may offer up to 50% of any such Co-Investment Opportunity to such strategic co-investor(s), with the balance
of such Co-Investment Opportunity offered to Comcast Shareholder or its designated Affiliate;  provided, further , that (i) in no event shall the Manager offer all or any portion of any Co-Investment Opportunity in the United States to any
person set forth on  Schedule IV  (each Person set forth on  Schedule IV , a   Prohibited Co-Investor  ), regardless of whether such Co-Investment Opportunity is first offered to Comcast Shareholder or its designated
Affiliate and (ii) the Manager shall only offer all or any portion of any Co-Investment Opportunity not in the United States to a Prohibited Co-Investor if such Co-Investment Opportunity is first offered to Comcast Shareholder or its designated
Affiliate and such Persons decline to accept any portion of such Co-Investment Opportunity.    (b) Notwithstanding Section 10.07(a),
prior to offering all or any portion of a Co-Investment Opportunity to Comcast Shareholder (or any permissible strategic co-investor), the Manager may offer such Co-Investment Opportunity to (i) rollover investors, (ii) management
investors and (iii) bona fide sources of financing;  provided  that, in the case of this clause (iii), (A) such financing source customarily provides financing of the type comprising such Co-Investment Opportunity, (B) the type
of financing being provided by such financing source and comprising such Co-Investment Opportunity customarily includes an equity component and (C) such financing source is not a Prohibited Co-Investor.  
      50  

(c) The procedures set forth in Section 9.01 shall apply,  mutatis mutandis , to any
offer of a Co-Investment Opportunity to Comcast Shareholder;  provided  that, in the event that it is not commercially practicable under the circumstances for Comcast Shareholder to have 30 days to accept such offer, then Comcast Shareholder
shall have such amount of time to accept such offer as determined by the Manager and set forth in the offer notice, but not less than 10 Business Days.  
 Section 10.08.  Additional Comcast Rights.  In the event that Comcast determines, in its good faith judgment, that (i) the
Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries will be consolidated in Comcast s statement of financial position and (ii) such consolidation is resulting or would be reasonably likely to result in significant adverse consequences to Comcast
(including, by way of example, adverse impacts on Comcast s credit rating or borrowing terms):    (a) if the Company is not then and is
not reasonably likely to become an  investment company  under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (as determined in good faith by the Manager), (x) Comcast will be permitted to effect a spinoff of its interest in the Company to Comcast
shareholders provided that the spinoff entity has the financial wherewithal to meet its obligations under this Agreement, it being understood that (A) ManagementCo Shareholder will not be obligated to agree to changes to its governance or
economic rights set forth in this Agreement and the Manager will not be obligated to agree to changes to its governance or economic rights set forth in the Management Agreement, (B) the rights of Comcast Shareholder pursuant to Article 9 shall
be retained by Comcast Shareholder post-spinoff but shall apply only to assets held by the Company at the time of the spinoff and not to subsequently acquired assets and (C) Comcast will not be permitted to effect a spinoff if the consummation
of the spinoff would, or would be reasonably likely to, result in any significant adverse consequences to the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager (with the sole fact of the creation of the new public company itself not constituting such
a significant adverse effect), and (y) the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder and the Manager will cooperate with Comcast to facilitate such a spinoff;  
 (b) if the Company is then such an  investment company  or is reasonably likely to become such an  investment company  (as
determined in good faith by the Manager), ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager and the Company will use their good faith efforts (in collaboration with Comcast) to determine whether there are reasonable available actions that can be taken to
address the adverse consequences affecting Comcast (but, for the avoidance of doubt, in such circumstances, it shall not be considered reasonable to effect a spinoff of the type referenced in clause (a) or any alternative public offering unless
other reasonable actions are available so that, in the good faith judgment of the Manager, the Company will not, at the time of any such spinoff or alternative public offering, be or be reasonably likely to become an  investment company )
and, if such available actions are determined to exist and Comcast wishes to pursue such course of action, ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager and the Company will take such actions;  provided  that, in connection with the taking of any such
action, ManagementCo Shareholder will not be obligated to agree to any changes to its governance or economic rights set forth in this Agreement, the  
      51  

Manager will not be obligated to agree to any changes to its governance or economic rights set forth in the Management Agreement and neither ManagementCo Shareholder nor the Manager will be
obligated to pursue any action that would, or would be reasonably likely to, result in any other significant adverse consequences to the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager; and  
 (c) if Comcast elects to pursue the action described below in this clause (c) in preference to any available action under clause
(a) or clause (b) or if there is no such other available action, Comcast will be permitted to Transfer up to 40% of the Comcast Rights and Obligations to a third party, with the transferee subject to the Board s consent (not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed);  provided  that, except as specified below, the Board shall not be entitled to withhold or delay its consent if the proposed transferee is a bona fide financial institution or investment firm or fund of
national standing with the financial wherewithal to meet its related financial obligations ( i.e. , Capital Commitment, Capital Contributions and Management Fee);  provided ,  further , that in all cases, the Board shall be entitled
to withhold its consent if the transfer would result in, or be reasonably likely to result in, significant adverse consequences to the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager with respect to regulatory, legal, tax or similar matters. Any
Person to whom Comcast Transfers Comcast Rights and Obligations as permitted by this Section 10.08(c) shall be deemed to be (i) a  Shareholder  for all purposes hereof and (ii)  Comcast Shareholder , a  holder
of Class I Shares  and a  holder of Class I-A Shares to the extent of the transfer of Comcast Rights and Obligations pursuant to this Section 10.08(c), and shall execute a joinder to this Agreement in a form to be reasonably agreed by
Comcast and the Company.    Section 10.09.  Advisory Board.  In the event the Company forms an advisory board in the future (the
  Advisory Board  ), such Advisory Board will advise the Company and consult with the Manager on such matters relating to the business of the Company and the Portfolio Companies or this Agreement as the Manager may determine from time
to time or any member of the Advisory Board may reasonably propose to the Manager;  provided  that any actions taken by the Advisory Board shall be advisory only, and neither the Company nor the Manager shall be required or otherwise bound to
act in accordance with any such actions. The Comcast Chief Executive Officer (or a designee acceptable to the Manager) will be entitled to serve on any such Advisory Board. The Advisory Board shall otherwise consist of individuals selected by the
Manager, in its reasonable discretion.    Section 10.10.  Comcast Executive Committee.  The Initial CEO, in his capacity as a
representative of the Manager, will be allocated time at relevant Comcast Executive Management Committee meetings to discuss potential Investments, opportunities and initiatives under consideration by the Company.  
 Section 10.11.  Administrative Services.  Comcast will provide or cause to be provided certain (to be mutually agreed)
administrative services to the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder and the Manager on arm s-length terms pursuant to an administrative services agreement to be entered into among Comcast, the Management Shareholder and the Manager.  
      52  

Section 10.12.  Non-solicitation; Non-hire.  Each of the Company, ManagementCo
Shareholder and the Manager agrees that, without Comcast Shareholder s prior written consent, it will not, and will cause its Affiliates (and, in the case of the Company, its controlled Portfolio Companies and their respective Subsidiaries
solely to the extent any such Portfolio Company or Subsidiary of a Portfolio Company is acting in concert with the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager) not to, solicit for employment or employ any current or former senior employee of
Comcast or any of its Affiliates;  provided  that this Section 10.12 shall not prohibit any such Person from (i) conducting a general solicitation or advertisement that is not directed at employees of Comcast or any of its Affiliates;
 provided  that this clause (i) shall not permit the employment of any individuals who respond to such solicitation or advertisement; (ii) soliciting for employment or employing any individuals who have not been employed by Comcast or
any of its Affiliates for a period of six months prior to the date such individuals were first solicited for employment; (iii) soliciting for employment or employing any individuals whose employment with Comcast or any of its Affiliates is
terminated by Comcast or any of its Affiliates without cause; or (iv) responding to unsolicited inquiries regarding employment;  provided  that this clause (iv) shall not permit the employment of any individuals making such
unsolicited inquiries.    Section 10.13.  Accountants.  The Company agrees that Deloitte   Touche LLP will be appointed
as initial independent certified public accountant for the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries;  provided  that the Manager may thereafter appoint as independent certified public accountant for the Company and its consolidated
Subsidiaries another of the  big four  nationally recognized independent public accounting firms if the Manager determines in its reasonable discretion that the pricing or services provided by Deloitte   Touche LLP are not
satisfactory.    Section 10.14.  FCC Order; DOJ Order . The Company acknowledges that it has received and reviewed that certain
Memorandum Opinion and Order of the Federal Communications Commission (In the Matter of Applications of Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company and NBC Universal, Inc.) as adopted on January 18, 2011 (the   FCC Order  ) and
that certain Stipulation and Order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia with respect to the January 18, 2011 [Proposed] Final Judgment of the Department of Justice and Certain States in the matter United States of
America, et al., as Plaintiffs, v. Comcast Corporation, et al., as Defendants (the   DOJ Order   and together with the FCC Order, the   Orders  ), has had the opportunity to discuss the Orders with counsel, and
understands that the each of the Orders may subject the Company, its Subsidiaries and Portfolio Companies, and their respective businesses to certain conditions or requirements. The Company (i) shall comply with any and all applicable
conditions or requirements set forth in the Orders, and (ii) shall cause each of its Covered Subsidiaries to contractually agree to comply with, and to comply with, any and all applicable conditions or requirements set forth in the Orders.
  Covered Subsidiaries   means each of the Company s Subsidiaries and Portfolio Companies that (A) in the case of the FCC Order, is an Affiliate (as defined in the FCC Order) of Comcast or NBCUniversal Media LLC or
(B) in the case of DOJ Order, in which Comcast or one of its Affiliates owns a 25% or greater interest or which Comcast or one of its Affiliates otherwise controls, and that, by the terms of an Order is subject to any conditions or requirements
of such Order.  
      53  

Section 10.15.  Non-Affiliation of Comcast and the Company . Each of the parties
acknowledges that Comcast Shareholder does not possess, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the Company or any of its Affiliates and that, accordingly, where the term
 affiliate  is based on the existence of a control relationship, (i) neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates is an  affiliate  of Comcast Shareholder or any of its Affiliates or has the authority to bind Comcast
Shareholder or any of its Affiliates and (ii) neither Comcast Shareholder nor any of its Affiliates is an  affiliate  of the Company or any of its Affiliates or has the authority to bind the Company or any of its Affiliates. Comcast
Shareholder, on the one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, will at all times act (and cause their Affiliates to act) in a manner consistent with the foregoing principle, and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause any
controlled Portfolio Companies to act in a manner consistent with the foregoing principle.    Section 10.16.  HSR Filings.  The
Company agrees that any filing by the Company pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (as in effect from time to time) shall include a cover letter explaining the relationship of Comcast and the Company in a form to be
mutually agreed by the Company and Comcast Shareholder.    Section 10.17.  Manager and ManagementCo Shareholder Actions Requiring
Consent .    (a) Each of the Manager and ManagementCo Shareholder, as applicable, agrees that it shall not take any of the following
actions without the approval of Comcast Shareholder:    (i) the admission of investors other than employees of the Manager in the Manager
or ManagementCo Shareholder (other than trusts, estate planning vehicles or similar entities established as contemplated by the partnership agreement of the Manager or the ManagementCo Shareholder Partnership Agreement);  
 (ii) the pledge by ManagementCo Shareholder of its interest in the Class II Shares; and  
 (iii) the public offering of securities issued by the Manager or ManagementCo Shareholder.  
 (b) In the event that Comcast Shareholder determines not to grant its consent to a proposed action pursuant to Section 10.17(a), the
Manager and Comcast Shareholder shall discuss the reasons for such withholding of consent and will consider in good faith whether there are alternative approaches that might address Comcast Shareholder s concerns while permitting (a possibly
modified version of) the proposed action to go forward.  
      54  

Section 10.18.  Exclusivity . The Manager agrees that, for the term of the Management
Agreement, the Manager will not have investment advisory or similar arrangements with any Persons other than the Company.  
 Section 10.19.  Certain Tax Matters .  
 (a)    (i) The Manager shall cause
to be prepared and timely filed all tax returns required to be filed for each Company Entity;  provided, however , that prior to the filing of any federal income tax return of any Company Entity (including such Company Entity s Internal
Revenue Service Form 1065, if applicable), any material foreign, state or local income tax return of a Company Entity, or any material franchise tax return of a Company Entity, Comcast Shareholder shall be entitled to review and consult with the
applicable Company Entity, as appropriate, with respect to such tax returns, which shall be provided to Comcast Shareholder no less than 60 days prior to the applicable due date. Comcast Shareholder shall have the right to dispute any such tax
return provided to Comcast Shareholder with respect to any significant issue or item. If Comcast Shareholder disputes any such tax return by delivering a written notice thereof to the Manager, within 30 days following receipt of such tax return, the
Comcast Shareholder, the Company and the Manager shall, and the Manager shall cause the relevant Company Entity to, use commercially reasonable efforts to resolve the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved within 10 days following receipt of a
written notice of a dispute from Comcast Shareholder, the dispute shall be referred to a firm of independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing and with relevant expertise, mutually acceptable to the applicable Company Entity and
Comcast Shareholder. Such accounting firm shall use commercially reasonable effort to resolve the dispute prior to the due date of the disputed tax return, and such accounting firm s conclusions shall be binding on the relevant Company Entity
and the Comcast Shareholder. If such accounting firm cannot resolve the dispute prior to the due date of the disputed tax return, such tax return will be filed as originally proposed by the relevant Company Entity, and the applicable Company Entity
shall file an amended tax return, within 10 days of such accounting firm s resolution, reflecting the conclusion of such accounting firm. Any incremental out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Company Entity or the Manager relating to Comcast
Shareholder s dispute of any tax return, including the fees and expenses of the accounting firm s review of any dispute with respect to a tax return, shall be reimbursed by the Comcast Shareholder. The Company, the Manager and Comcast
Shareholder shall work together in good faith to procure that any such expenses (and any other incremental out-of-pocket expenses that are to be reimbursed by Comcast Shareholder pursuant to any provision of this Section 10.19) are reasonable
in amount.    (ii) At the request of Comcast Shareholder, the Manager shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide information
reasonably requested by Comcast Shareholder for purposes of determining whether a Controlled Portfolio Company is required by Applicable Law to be included with Comcast or any of its Affiliates in a combined, consolidated or unitary tax return (for
the avoidance of doubt, other than by reason of an allocation of items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit on a  pass  
      55  

through  basis for income tax purposes) (any such tax return, a   Comcast Group Tax Return  ) for any taxable period. Any incremental out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
Company, the Manager, or the Controlled Portfolio Company as a result of Comcast Shareholder s request pursuant to this Section 10.19(a)(ii) shall be reimbursed by the Comcast Shareholder.  
 (iii) In the event that Comcast or any of its Affiliates is required by Applicable Law to include any Company Entity in a combined,
consolidated or unitary tax return (for the avoidance of doubt, other than by reason of an allocation of items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit on a  pass through  basis for income tax purposes) (any such tax return, a
  Comcast Group Tax Return  ) for any taxable period, the tax liability of such Company Entity and its Subsidiaries for each such taxable period will be determined on a hypothetical separate tax return basis as if such Company Entity
and its Subsidiaries had never been included in any such Comcast Group Tax Return (such tax liability of such Company Entity and its Subsidiaries, the   Company Entity Hypothetical Tax Liability  ). If the Company Entity Hypothetical
Tax Liability with respect to a taxable period is positive, Comcast shall pay such amount on behalf of such Company Entity, and the Manager shall cause such Company Entity to reimburse Comcast for such amount within 10 days of Comcast s
payment. If the Company Entity Hypothetical Tax Liability with respect to a taxable period is negative, such amount shall carry forward to successive taxable periods and shall reduce the Company Entity Hypothetical Tax Liability for such taxable
periods;  provided, however , if the aggregate amount of Company Entity Hypothetical Tax Liabilities of such Company Entity for prior taxable periods is positive, Comcast shall pay to such Company Entity an amount equal to the reduction in the
tax liability of Comcast or its Affiliates attributable to any Tax Attribute of such Company Entity (  Tax Loss Payment    provided further  that (I) the amount of Tax Loss Payment Comcast is required to make to such
Company Entity shall not exceed the aggregate amount of Company Entity Hypothetical Tax Liabilities paid by such Company Entity to Comcast for prior taxable periods, (II) Comcast is required to make a Tax Loss Payment only if, and to the extent
that, the actual tax liability of such Company Entity on a hypothetical separate tax return basis would have been reduced due to such Tax Attribute and (III) the Company Entity Hypothetical Tax Liabilities for prior taxable periods shall be reduced
to reflect any Tax Loss Payment made by Comcast. In no event shall Comcast be required to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes) to such Company Entity.  
 (b) The Manager may cause any Company Entity to make, or refrain from making, any tax elections as it determines in its reasonable discretion,
including, without limitation, the election under Section 754 of the Code;  provided, however , that (i) prior to making any material election with respect to any Company Entity, the Manager shall consult with the Comcast Shareholder
in good faith and the Manager shall cause any Company Entity not to make any material election that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on Comcast Shareholder relative to any other Shareholder without the consent of Comcast
Shareholder, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; (ii) at the request of Comcast Shareholder and to the extent available under Applicable Law, the Manager shall cause a Company Entity to make an election so that
 
      56  

such Company Entity would not be included in a combined, consolidated or unitary tax return with Comcast or any of its Affiliates or under a group relief regime with Comcast or any of its
Affiliates; (iii) the Manager shall not make an election under Section 1101(g)(4) of the  Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015  to apply the Partnership Audit Reform Rules prior to its effective date provided under
Section 1101(g)(1) of the  Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015  (iv) on or after the effective date of the Partnership Audit Reform Rules and to the extent permissible under Applicable Law, at the request of Comcast Shareholder,
Manager shall cause any applicable Company Entity to file an election pursuant to Section 6221(b), as promulgated under the  Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015;  and (v) the Manager shall cause the Company to elect to be treated as a
partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes by timely filing Internal Revenue Service Form 8832 and any comparable tax form under applicable provisions of state or local law, and shall refrain from taking any actions inconsistent with its
treatment as a partnership for federal, state and local income tax purposes.    (c)  
 (i) The Company shall, and the Manager shall cause each Comcast Investment Vehicle to, deliver, no later than five Business Days after the
filing of the appropriate income tax returns by the Company or applicable Comcast Investment Vehicle, to each Shareholder a Schedule K-1 showing such Shareholder s share of income, loss, deductions, gain and credits;  provided  that the
Company shall, and the Manager shall cause each Comcast Investment Vehicle to, use commercially reasonable efforts to provide estimates of the information to be set forth on such Schedule K-1 no later than 60 days after the end of each Tax Year but
in no event later than 90 days after the end of each Tax Year. Each Shareholder agrees that such Shareholder shall not treat any item of income, gain, loss or any other Company or Alternative Investment Vehicle item on such Shareholder s tax
return in a manner which is inconsistent with the treatment of such item on the Company s or applicable Alternative Investment Vehicle s tax return (for the avoidance of doubt, as amended to reflect the resolution of an accounting firm
pursuant to Section 10.19(a)(i)). The Company shall, and the Manager shall cause each Comcast Investment Vehicle to, deliver to the Comcast Shareholder estimates of the information necessary for Comcast to determine its estimated taxes payable
with respect to a Tax Quarter attributable to Comcast Shareholder s interest in the Company or a Comcast Investment Vehicle, no later than 30 days after the end of such Tax Quarter;  provided, however , that the Company and the Manager
shall only be required to provide such information with respect to a tax year for which the aggregate amount of income, or aggregate amount of loss, allocated to Comcast Shareholder is expected to be significant;  provided  further that any
incremental out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Company Entity or the Manager in connection with the preparation of information for the Comcast Shareholder pursuant to this sentence shall be reimbursed by the Comcast Shareholder. For the
avoidance of doubt, any expenses with respect to the preparation and filing of the tax returns for the Company or Comcast Investment Vehicle, including Schedule K-1 provided to the Shareholders, are Manager Expenses pursuant to Section 7.01.
 
      57  

(ii) The Manager and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver, at the
reasonable request of a Shareholder, such other information as is required for the preparation of its tax returns, including, if requested, state apportionment information. At the request of any Shareholder, the Manager and the Company shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to such Shareholder such information as may be necessary for such Shareholder to file its Schedule UTP and similar other statements or returns that are required to be filed by such Shareholder as a result
of its holding of Company Securities. Any incremental   out-of-pocket   expenses incurred by the Manager, the Company, a Comcast Investment Vehicle, or their Subsidiaries or
any Portfolio Company as a result of a request from a Shareholder pursuant to this Section 10.19(c)(ii) shall be reimbursed by such Shareholder.  
 (iii) The Manager agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to promptly notify a Shareholder in writing upon becoming aware of any
tax filing, reporting or withholding obligations (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any amounts withheld or paid with respect to the Shareholder) and the availability of any refunds or exemptions from withholding, in each case with respect to
the Shareholder s interest in the Company. In the event of any imposition by any governmental authority within the jurisdictions in which the Company makes its investments of any income tax liability on a Shareholder s share of the
Company s income or of any tax liability arising out of a Shareholder s interest in the Company, in each case, on a net income basis, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide the Shareholder with sufficient
information so as to permit the Shareholder to claim any deduction or credit with respect to such taxes and to complete all requisite tax forms, reports or filings. In addition, if requested in writing by a Shareholder, the Company shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to obtain on behalf of the Shareholder, or to assist the Shareholder in obtaining, any available tax refunds or exemptions from withholding tax arising out of the Shareholder s interest in the Company. Any
incremental out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Company Entity, Portfolio Company or the Manager as a result of a request from a Shareholder pursuant to this Section 10.19(c)(iii) shall be reimbursed by such Shareholder.  
 (d) ManagementCo Shareholder is hereby designated as the Company s  tax matters partner  under Section 6231(a)(7) of the
Code or any comparable law (the   Tax Matters Partner  ), with all powers and responsibilities of a  tax matters partner  as defined in Section 6231(a)(7)(A) of the Code or any comparable law, and is granted the
corresponding designation under any similar provisions of state, local or non-U.S. law. The Tax Matters Partner shall act in good faith in fulfilling its responsibilities. In the event that the Tax Matters Partner or the relevant Company Entity is
notified (in writing) by a taxing authority that the relevant Company Entity is the subject of an audit or examination by a taxing authority of any federal income, material foreign, state or local income, or material franchise tax return (a
  Tax Contest  ), the Tax Matters Partner shall promptly provide to the Shareholders a written notice informing the Shareholders that the applicable Company Entity is the subject of a Tax Contest, shall keep the Shareholders
reasonably informed of material developments relating to such audit or examination and shall permit the Comcast Shareholder to participate in the conduct and settlement of any  
      58  

proceeding with respect to any Tax Contest (it being understood that ManagementCo Shareholder shall retain control of the conduct and settlement of any such Tax Contest except to the extent of
the consent right of Comcast Shareholder specified in the immediately succeeding sentence). The Tax Matters Partner shall not agree to any settlement, resolution or closing or other agreement with respect to a Tax Contest involving any significant
issue or item without the consent of Comcast Shareholder, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Expenses of any administrative proceedings undertaken by the Tax Matters Partner shall be Company Expenses other than incremental
out-of-pocket expenses of Manager or any Company Entity relating to Comcast Shareholder s exercise of its consent right hereunder, which expenses shall be reimbursed by Comcast Shareholder, and the expenses of Comcast Shareholder in exercising
its participation rights hereunder, which shall be borne by Comcast Shareholder.    (e) The Manager shall not cause the
Company, any Comcast Investment Vehicle and their Subsidiaries to engage, and the Manager shall not knowingly cause any other Company Entity to engage, directly or indirectly, in a transaction that, as of the date the Company Entity enters into a
binding contract to engage in such transaction, is a  listed transaction  as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4(b)(2). The Manager will undertake reasonable due diligence to determine whether any transaction to be
engaged in by any Company Entity is a  listed transaction  or a  prohibited reportable transaction  as defined in Section 4965(e)(1)(C) of the Code. If the Manager has knowledge that any Company Entity has engaged directly
or indirectly in a transaction that is a  listed transaction  or a  prohibited reportable transaction , it shall (i) promptly notify the Shareholders of such determination and (ii) provide each Shareholder with any
requested information needed by such Shareholder to fulfill its reporting or disclosure obligations in respect of such transaction.    (f)
The Manager may, in its reasonable discretion, take any steps that it deems necessary or advisable to cause the Company to comply with the tax laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions.  
 Section 10.20.  Tax Year . The Company shall elect the calendar year as its taxable year (  Tax Year  ), unless
otherwise required by Applicable Law.    Section 10.21.  Portfolio Company Debt.  The Company will not permit any controlled
Portfolio Companies to incur, create, issue, assume or guarantee any Debt unless such Debt is Non-Recourse to Comcast, and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts in structuring any such Debt to minimize the amount of any income
inclusion by a Shareholder relating to such Debt pursuant to Section 956 of the Code.    Section 10.22.  Comcast Securities .
The Company agrees that it will not acquire, directly or through any Alternative Investment Vehicle or controlled Portfolio Company, any equity securities or equity-related securities (including preferred equity, convertible debt or similar
securities) or debt securities issued by Comcast or any of its Affiliates or Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee or any of its Affiliates.  
      59  

ARTICLE 11  
 W INDING -U P   AND  D ISSOLUTION   OF   THE 
C OMPANY     Section 11.01.  Winding-Up of the Company.    
 (a) Subject to Applicable Law, the Company s affairs shall be wound up upon the earliest of:  
 (i) the unanimous agreement of the Shareholders;  
 (ii) the termination of the Commitment Period (other than by early termination pursuant to Section 6.01(c));  
 (iii) at Comcast Shareholder s election, the third anniversary of the occurrence of an Initial CEO Event ( provided  that, if at
any time during such three year period, neither Alexander D. Evans nor David L. Caplan is serving in a senior management role with respect to the Company with responsibilities at least comparable to their responsibilities on the Commencement Date,
the Comcast Shareholder may elect to require that the Company be wound up commencing at such time as neither of such individuals is serving in such capacity); and  
 (iv) at Comcast Shareholder s election, the occurrence of a Cause Event (each of clauses (i) through (iv), a   Wind-Up
Event  ).    (b) Subject to Article 9, upon the occurrence of a Wind-Up Event, the Manager shall be the liquidator to wind-up the
affairs of the Company and shall conduct an orderly disposition of the assets of the Company, including Portfolio Company Securities (collectively,   Company Assets  ), in a manner consistent with the best interests of the Company,
taking into account market conditions and legal and contractual considerations. The Manager shall determine in its reasonable discretion which Company Assets shall be sold and which Company Assets shall be retained for distribution in kind to the
Shareholders. The Manager shall consider in good faith tax efficient structuring among other relevant factors in connection with the disposition or distribution of Company Assets pursuant to this Section 11.01(b). Subject to Applicable Law,
after all liabilities of the Company have been satisfied or duly provided for, the remaining Company Assets shall be distributed to the Shareholders in accordance with Article 8 and this Article 11.  
 (c) In the discretion of the liquidator, and subject to Applicable Law, a portion of the distributions that would otherwise be made to the
Shareholders pursuant to this Section 11.01 may be:    (i) distributed to a trust established for the benefit of the Shareholders for
purposes of liquidating Shareholder assets, collecting amounts owed to the Shareholders, and paying any liabilities or obligations of the Company arising out of, or in connection with, this Agreement or the Company s affairs; or  
      60  

(ii) withheld, with respect to any Shareholder, to provide a reserve for the payment of such
Shareholder s share of future Company Expenses;  provided  that such withheld amounts shall be distributed to the Shareholders as soon as the liquidator determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it is no longer necessary to retain
such amounts.    The assets of any trust established in connection with clause (i) above shall be distributed to the Shareholders from time to time, in
the discretion of the liquidator, in the same proportions as the amount distributed to such trust by the Company would otherwise have been distributed to the Shareholder pursuant to this Agreement.  
 (d) Each Shareholder shall look solely to the assets of the Company for the return of such Shareholder s aggregate Capital Contributions,
and no Shareholder shall have priority over any other Shareholder as to the return of such Capital Contributions.    (e) After the
liquidator has distributed the assets of the Company in accordance with this Section 11.01, the liquidator shall do all such acts required to wind up the Company in accordance with the Companies Law (2013 Revision) of the Cayman Islands.  
 Section 11.02.  Clawback.    
 (a) ManagementCo Shareholder acknowledges and agrees that the aggregate amount of Class II Distributions that it is entitled to receive in its
capacity as the Class II Shareholder (the   Class II Maximum Amount  ) shall not exceed the lesser of (i) 12.5% of the excess, if any, of (A) the aggregate amount of distributions pursuant to Sections 8.02 and 11.01 over
(B) the aggregate amount of Capital Contributions made by all Shareholders; and (ii) the excess, if any, of (A) the aggregate amount of distributions pursuant to Sections 8.02 and 11.01 over (B) the amount necessary to be
distributed to the Class I Shareholders pursuant to Sections 8.02 and 11.01 such that each Class I Shareholder shall have received a Priority Return in respect of each Capital Contribution made by such Shareholder.  
 (b) Upon the occurrence of a Wind-Up Event (the date of the occurrence of a Wind-Up Event, the   Interim Clawback Date  ), the
Manager shall calculate the Class II Maximum Amount and determine the amount, if any, the Class II Shareholder would be required to return pursuant to Section 11.02(c), in each case based upon a hypothetical liquidation of the Company as if all
of the Company Assets were sold at the Quarterly Value thereof and the net assets of the Company were distributed as of such Interim Clawback Date in accordance with Section 11.01 after giving effect to such hypothetical liquidation (the
  Interim Clawback Amount  ). If there is an Interim Clawback Amount, the Class II Shareholder shall repay to the Company, for distribution (subject to Applicable Law) to the Class I Shareholders ( pro rata  in accordance with
Section 8.02 or Section 11.01), an amount of cash equal to the Interim Clawback Amount;  provided  that in no event shall the Class II Shareholder be obligated to repay an amount that is greater than the aggregate Class II
Distributions previously received by the Class II Shareholder less the excess of the deemed income tax liability (calculated based on the Tax Rate) on  
      61  

the income allocated to the Class II Shareholder over the amount of any corresponding deemed tax benefit (calculated based on the Tax Rate) arising out of the payment described in this paragraph
in the taxable year in which such payment is made, in each case determined without reference to any item of income, gain, expense, loss or credit other than such items arising out of the Class II Shareholder s activities as a Shareholder of the
Company. To the extent that there have been any distributions in kind of Marketable Securities or other non-cash Company Assets to the Class II Shareholder, the amount of the deemed income tax liability associated with such distributions shall be
the value of such distributed Marketable Securities and Company Assets (as determined for purposes of making the applicable distribution under Section 8.02 or Section 11.01) multiplied by the applicable Tax Rate. Any amount that the Class
II Shareholder pays to the Company pursuant to this Section 11.02(b) shall not be treated as a Capital Contribution. The amount of any distribution to a Class I Shareholder pursuant to this Section 11.02(b) shall, for purposes of applying
Section 8.02 and Section 11.01, be treated as having been made pursuant to Section 8.02 or Section 11.01 and shall be taken into account in determining the amounts that are distributable thereafter to such Class I Shareholder
pursuant to Section 8.02 and Section 11.01.    (c) If, after giving effect to (i) any payments pursuant to
Section 11.02(b) and (ii) the final allocations and distributions pursuant to Section 11.01, the Class II Shareholder shall have received aggregate Class II Distributions in excess of the Class II Maximum Amount, the Class II
Shareholder shall repay to the Company, for distribution (subject to Applicable Law) to the Class I Shareholders ( pro rata  in accordance with Section 8.02 or Section 11.01) an amount of cash equal to the excess of the aggregate
Class II Distributions over the Class II Maximum Amount;  provided  that in no event shall the Class II Shareholder be obligated to repay an amount that is greater than the aggregate Class II Distributions previously received by the Class II
Shareholder less the excess of the deemed income tax liability (calculated based on the Tax Rate) on the income allocated to the Class II Shareholder over the amount of any corresponding deemed tax benefit (calculated based on the Tax Rate) arising
out of the payment described in this paragraph in the taxable year in which such payment is made, in each case determined without reference to any item of income, gain, expense, loss or credit other than such items arising out of the Class II
Shareholder s activities as a Shareholder of the Company. Any amount that the Class II Shareholder pays to the Company pursuant to this Section 11.02(c) shall not be treated as a Capital Contribution. The amount of any distribution to a
Class I Shareholder pursuant to this Section 11.02(c) shall, for purposes of applying Section 8.02 and Section 11.01, be treated as having been made pursuant to Section 8.02 or Section 11.01 and shall be taken into account
in determining the amounts that are distributable thereafter to such Class I Shareholder pursuant to Section 8.02 and Section 11.01.  
 (d) In the event that the Class II Shareholder is obligated under Section 11.02(b) or Section 11.02(c) to return to the Company a
portion of the Class II Distributions received from the Company, to the extent the Class II Shareholder has insufficient funds to meet such obligations, (i) each limited partner or former limited partner of the Class II Shareholder shall be
severally obligated to return its  pro rata  share  
      62  

of such amounts (based on the amounts paid to or for the account of such limited partner relating to Class II Distributions). Each limited partner of the Class II Shareholder shall execute and
deliver a guarantee, for the benefit of the Company and the Shareholders, of the performance of his or her obligation to return up to his or her  pro rata  share of any amount required to be returned by the Class II Shareholder to the Company
pursuant to Section 11.02(b) or (c).    ARTICLE 12  
 M ISCELLANEOUS   
 Section 12.01.  Binding Effect; Assignability; Benefit .  
 (a) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, successors, legal
representatives and permitted assigns.    (b) Neither this Agreement nor any right or obligation arising hereunder or by reason hereof shall
be assignable, delegable or otherwise transferable by any party hereto pursuant to any Transfer of Company Securities or otherwise, except that (i) Comcast Shareholder may assign its rights or obligations arising hereunder to the extent
contemplated by Section 5.03 and Section 10.08 and (ii) ManagementCo Shareholder may assign its rights or obligations hereunder to the extent contemplated by Section 5.03;  provided  that no such assignment shall relieve
ManagementCo Shareholder of any of its obligations hereunder.    (c) Except as provided in Section 10.06(e), nothing in this Agreement,
expressed or implied, is intended to confer on any Person other than the parties hereto, and their respective heirs, successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns, any rights or obligations under or by reason of this Agreement.  
 Section 12.02.  Notices . All notices, requests and other communications to any party shall be in writing and shall be delivered in
person, by reputable overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or sent by electronic mail:  
 if to the Company to:    Atairos
Group, Inc.    40 Morris Avenue  
 Bryn Mawr, PA 19010    Attention:
                Michael J. Angelakis    E-mail:
                    m.angelakis@atairos.com  
 Atairos Group, Inc.    620 Fifth
Avenue    New York, NY 10020  
 Attention:                 David L. Caplan  
 E-mail:
                    d.caplan@atairos.com  
      63  

with copies to Comcast and the Manager at the addresses listed below;  
 if to Comcast Shareholder, to:  
 Comcast AG Holdings, LLC    c/o
Comcast Corporation    One Comcast Center  
 1701 John F. Kennedy Boulevard  
 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103  
 Attention:                 Arthur R. Block  
 E-mail:
                    art_block@comcast.com  
 with a copy to:    Davis
Polk   Wardwell LLP    450 Lexington Avenue  
 New York, New York 10017  
 Attention:                 Thomas J. Reid  
 E-mail:
                    tom.reid@davispolk.com  
 Attention:                 William H. Aaronson  
 E-mail:
                    william.aaronson@davispolk.com  
 if to ManagementCo Shareholder, to:  
 Atairos Partners, L.P.    40
Morris Avenue    Bryn Mawr, PA 19010  
 Attention:                 Michael J. Angelakis  
 E-mail:
                    m.angelakis@atairos.com  
 Atairos Partners, L.P.    620
Fifth Avenue    New York, NY 10020  
 Attention:                 David L. Caplan  
 E-mail:
                    d.caplan@atairos.com  
 with a copy to:  
 Ropes   Gray LLP  
 Prudential Tower    800 Boylston
Street    Boston, Massachusetts 02199-3600  
 Attention:                 John B. Ayer  
 E-mail:
                    john.ayer@ropesgray.com  
      64  

if to the Manager, to:  
 Atairos Management, L.P.    40
Morris Avenue    Bryn Mawr, PA 19010  
 Attention:                 Michael J. Angelakis  
 E-mail:
                    m.angelakis@atairos.com  
 Atairos Management, L.P.    620
Fifth Avenue    New York, NY 10020  
 Attention:                 David L. Caplan  
 E-mail:
                    d.caplan@atairos.com  
 with a copy to:  
 Ropes   Gray LLP  
 Prudential Tower    800 Boylston
Street    Boston, Massachusetts 02199-3600  
 Attention:                 John B. Ayer  
 E-mail:
                    john.ayer@ropesgray.com  
 if to Comcast, to:    Comcast
Corporation    One Comcast Center  
 1701 John F. Kennedy Boulevard  
 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103  
 Attention:                 Arthur R. Block  
 E-mail:
                    art_block@comcast.com  
 with a copy to:    Davis
Polk   Wardwell LLP    450 Lexington Avenue  
 New York, New York 10017  
 Attention:                 Thomas J. Reid  
 E-mail:
                    tom.reid@davispolk.com  
 Attention:                 William H. Aaronson  
 E-mail:
                    william.aaronson@davispolk.com    or
such other address or electronic mail address as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the other parties hereto.  
      65  

All notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by
the recipient thereof if received (evidenced, in the case of electronic mail, by electronic confirmation of receipt) prior to 5:00 p.m. in the place of receipt and such day is a Business Day in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice,
request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. Any notice, request or other written communication sent by electronic mail transmission shall be confirmed by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, posted within one Business Day, or by personal delivery, whether courier or otherwise, made within two Business Days after the date of such electronic mail transmissions.  
 Section 12.03.  Amendment; Waiver .  
 (a) Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case
of an amendment, by each party to this agreement, or in the case of a waiver, by the party against whom the waiver is to be effective.  
 (b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any
single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege.  
 (c) The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Applicable Law.  
 Section 12.04.  Fees and Expenses . Subject to Article 7, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation of this
Agreement, or any amendment or waiver hereof, and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such costs or expenses.  
 Section 12.05.  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New
York, without regard to the conflict of laws rules of such state.    Section 12.06.  Jurisdiction . The parties agree that any
suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York or any New York State court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in New York, New York, so long as one of such courts shall have subject matter jurisdiction over such suit, action or proceeding, and that any cause of action
arising out of this Agreement shall be deemed to have arisen from a transaction of business in the State of New York, and each of the parties hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts
therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or
 
      66  

proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be
served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 12.02 shall be deemed
effective service of process on such party.    Section 12.07.  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY
IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.  
 Section 12.08.  Specific Performance.  The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur if any provision of this Agreement were
not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this agreement or to enforce specifically the performance of the terms and provisions hereof, in addition
to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.    Section 12.09.  Counterparts; Effectiveness . This
Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each
party hereto shall have received counterparts hereof signed by all of the other parties hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto, this Agreement shall have no effect and no party shall
have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication).  
 Section 12.10.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement, the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the ManagementCo Shareholder
Partnership Agreement, the Management Agreement and the Letter Agreement constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and
understandings, both oral and written, among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof. Without limiting the foregoing, upon the effectiveness of this Agreement, the New Company   Binding Agreement dated as of
March 31, 2015 by and between Comcast and the Initial CEO is hereby terminated and of no further force and effect.  
 Section 12.11.  Severability . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated
so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such a determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to
effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.  
      67  

Section 12.12.  Guarantee .  
 (a) Subject to Section 12.12(b), Comcast hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees (the   Comcast Guarantee  ) to
the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder and the Manager the prompt and full discharge by Comcast Shareholder of all of Comcast Shareholder s covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities under this Agreement including the due and punctual
payment of all amounts which are or may become due and payable by Comcast Shareholder hereunder when and as the same shall become due and payable (collectively, the   Comcast Shareholder Obligations  ), in accordance with the terms
hereof. Comcast acknowledges and agrees that, with respect to all Comcast Shareholder Obligations to pay money, such guaranty shall be a guaranty of payment and performance and not of collection and shall not be conditioned or contingent upon the
pursuit of any remedies against Comcast Shareholder. If Comcast Shareholder shall default in the due and punctual performance of any Comcast Shareholder Obligation, including the full and timely payment of any amount due and payable pursuant to any
Comcast Shareholder Obligation, Comcast will forthwith perform or cause to be performed such Comcast Shareholder Obligation and will forthwith make full payment of any amount due with respect thereto. Upon performance by Comcast of any Comcast
Shareholder Obligation, Comcast shall be subrogated to the rights of Comcast Shareholder against the Company, ManagementCo Shareholder or the Manager, as the case may be, with respect to such Comcast Shareholder Obligation.  
 (b) Notwithstanding Section 12.12(a), upon the Transfer of any Comcast Shareholder Obligations in accordance with this Agreement to any
Person that is not an Affiliate of Comcast (including any obligations of Comcast Shareholder that are indirectly allocated to a Comcast Permitted Spin Transferee pursuant to Section 5.03(c)(ii)), the Comcast Guarantee shall automatically be
revoked and cease to be in effect with respect to such Comcast Shareholder Obligations first arising after the effective date of the relevant Transfer (and otherwise the Comcast Guarantee shall remain in effect).  
 Section 12.13.  Representations.    
 (a) Each of Comcast Shareholder, ManagementCo Shareholder, the Manager and Comcast, severally but not jointly, for itself and not for any other
party to this Agreement, represents and warrants to the Company and to each of the others as of the date hereof that:    (i)  Existence
and Power . Such Person is an entity duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation and has all powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, permits, consents and approvals required to
carry on its business as now conducted, except for those licenses, authorizations, permits, consents and approvals the absence of which would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have an effect that is adverse and
material to such Person s ability to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.  
      68  

(ii)  Authorization . The execution, delivery and performance by such Person of this
Agreement and the consummation by such Person of the transactions contemplated hereby are within such Person s powers and, if applicable, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of such Person. This Agreement
constitutes a valid and binding agreement of such Person, enforceable in accordance with its respective terms, except to the extent enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other similar Applicable Laws
affecting the enforcement of creditor s rights generally and by general principles of equity.    (iii)
 Noncontravention . The execution, delivery and performance by such Person of this Agreement and the consummation by such Person of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not (A) violate the organizational documents of
such Person, (B) violate any Applicable Law or (C) require any consent or other action by any Person under, constitute a default under, or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation of
such Person or to a loss of any benefit to which such Person is entitled under, any provision of any agreement or other instrument binding upon such Person with such exceptions, in the case of clause (B) and (C), as would not, individually or
in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have an effect that is adverse and material to such Person s ability to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.  
 (b) Each of Comcast Shareholder and ManagementCo Shareholder, severally but not jointly, for itself and not for the other, represents and
warrants to the Company and to the other as of the date hereof and as of each date on which Company Securities are issued to such Person pursuant to Section 2.04(b), that:  
 (i)  Purchase for Investment . Such Person is acquiring the Company Securities for investment for its own account and not with a view
to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution thereof and such Person (either alone or together with its advisors) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and
risks of its investment in the Company Securities, and such Person is capable of bearing the economic risks of such investment for an indefinite period of time and is aware that Transfer of the Company Securities may not be possible because
(A) such Transfer will be subject to contractual restrictions on Transfer set forth in this Agreement and (B) the issuance of the Company Securities has not been registered under the Securities Act or any applicable state securities laws
and, therefore, the Company Securities cannot be sold unless such sale is registered under the Securities Act and such applicable state securities laws or an exemption from such registration is available.  
 (ii)  Not a Registered Offering . Such Person understands that the Company Securities have not been registered either with the SEC
or with the securities commission of any state and are being offered and sold pursuant to private offering  
      69  

exemptions therefrom, and that no Governmental Authority has recommended or endorsed the Company Securities or made any finding or determination relating to the adequacy or accuracy of
information provided to such Person or to the fairness for public investment of interests in the Company.    (iii)  Source of
Funds . Such Person has sufficient cash, available lines of credit or other sources of immediately available funds to enable it to make payment of such Purchaser s Available Capital Commitment.  
 Section 12.14.  Safe Harbor Rules . The ManagementCo Shareholder is authorized and directed to elect to have the  Safe
Harbor  described in the proposed Revenue Procedure set forth in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-43 (the   Notice  ) apply to any interest in the Company transferred to a service provider by the Company on or after the
effective date of such Revenue Procedure in connection with services provided to the Company. Under the Safe Harbor, the value of an interest that is transferred in connection with the performance of services (a   Safe Harbor
Interest  ) is treated as being equal to the liquidation value of that interest. For purposes of making such Safe Harbor election, the ManagementCo Shareholder is designated as the  partner who has responsibility for federal income tax
reporting  by the ManagementCo Shareholder and, accordingly, execution of such Safe Harbor election by the ManagementCo Shareholder constitutes execution of a  Safe Harbor Election  in accordance with Section 3.03(1) of the
Notice. The Company and each Shareholder agree to comply with all requirements of the Safe Harbor described in the Notice, including, without limitation, the requirement that each Shareholder prepare and file all federal income tax returns (to the
extent it is required to file such returns) reporting the income tax effects of each Safe Harbor Interest issued by the Company in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Notice. Each Shareholder s obligations to comply with the
requirements of this Section 12.14 shall survive the Shareholder s ceasing to be a Shareholder of the Company and/or the winding up and/or termination of the Company, and for purposes of this Section 12.14, the Company shall be
treated as continuing in existence. The ManagementCo Shareholder is authorized to amend the provisions in this Agreement to the extent necessary to achieve substantially the same tax treatment with respect to any interest in the Company transferred
to a service provider by the Company in connection with services provided to the Company as set forth in Section 4 of the Notice ( e.g. , to reflect changes from the rules set forth in the Notice in subsequent Internal Revenue Service
guidance), provided that such amendment is not adverse to any Shareholder (as compared with the after-tax consequences that would result if the provisions of the Notice applied to all interests in the Company transferred to a service provider by the
Company in connection with services provided to the Company).    Section 12.15.  Advisers Act . Each Shareholder agrees that it is
not an advisory client of the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates for purposes of the Advisers Act in connection with the decision to invest in, or otherwise in connection with its investment in, the Company. The
Board may, in its sole discretion, grant on behalf of the Company any approvals or consents required to be given by clients of the Manager or its Affiliates under the Advisers Act with respect to the Company in respect of (a) any and all
disclosures and approvals required under  
      70  

Section 206(3) thereof, and (b) any consent to a transaction that would result in the  assignment  (within the meaning of the Advisers Act) of the Management Agreement. Such
approval or consent of the Board shall constitute all necessary disclosures to and approvals or consents of a client for purposes of the Advisers Act. This Section 12.15 shall not prevent or restrict any vote, consent or approval of any
Shareholder otherwise expressly required under the terms of this Agreement, including Sections 4.01(k) and 5.03, or the Letter Agreement in order for the Company, the Manager, ManagementCo Shareholder or any of their respective Affiliates to take or
refrain from taking any specified action. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall constitute a waiver by any Shareholder of any of its legal rights under applicable federal securities laws or any other Applicable Law whose applicability is not
permitted to be contractually waived.     [Remainder of page is intentionally blank.]   
      71  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their
respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.       

COMPANY :  

ATAIROS GROUP, INC.  

By: 
   
   /s/ Michael J. Angelakis   
 
 Name: 
   
 Michael J. Angelakis  
 
 Title: 
   
 Chief Executive Officer  

SHAREHOLDERS:   

COMCAST AG HOLDINGS, LLC  

By: 
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   
 
 Name: 
   
 Arthur R. Block  
 
 Title: 
   
 Executive Vice President  

ATAIROS PARTNERS, L.P.  

By: Atairos Partners GP, Inc., its general partner  

By: 
   
   /s/ Michael J. Angelakis   
 
 Name: 
   
 Michael J. Angelakis  
 
 Title: 
   
 Chief Executive Officer  

72  

MANAGER:   

ATAIROS MANAGEMENT, L.P.  

By: Atairos Family GP, Inc., its general partner  

By: 
   
   /s/ Michael J. Angelakis   
 
 Name: 
   
 Michael J. Angelakis  
 
 Title: 
   
 Chief Executive Officer  

COMCAST :  

(solely for purposes of the Comcast Provisions)  

COMCAST CORPORATION  

By: 
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   
 
 Name: 
   
 Arthur R. Block  
 
 Title: 
   
 Executive Vice President  

73  

</EX-10.66>

<EX-10.67>
 8
 d49239dex1067.htm
 EX-10.67

EX-10.67 

Exhibit 10.67   
  ADVISOR AGREEMENT     This
ADVISOR AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ) dated November 24, 2015 is effective as of January 1, 2016 (the  Effective Date ) between Comcast Corporation ( Company ) and Michael J. Angelakis ( Senior
Advisor ).     BACKGROUND     WHEREAS,
Company desires that Senior Advisor provide certain advice to Company;    NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as
follows:    1.  Services.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, Company hereby retains Senior Advisor, and Senior Advisor
hereby agrees to be retained by Company, to provide business and strategic advice to the Company s senior management from time to time as reasonably requested (the  Services ).  
 2.  Term; Termination.     (a) The term of
this Agreement (the  Term ) shall run from the Effective Date until the earlier of (i) Senior Advisor ceasing to serve as chief executive officer of Atairos Group, Inc. or lead investment professional of Atairos Management, L.P. and
(ii) the occurrence of a  Wind-Up Event  (as defined in the Shareholders Agreement, dated as of the date hereof and effective as of January 1, 2016, among Atairos Group, Inc., the Company and the other parties thereto); provided,
however, that either party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement in the event of a breach by the other party, which if capable of being cured, is not cured by the breaching party within ten (10) business days of receipt of notice of
such breach.    (b) Upon termination of this Agreement (whether by expiration of the Term or termination by either party for breach),
neither party shall have any obligation or liability hereunder except with respect to any accrued rights under this Agreement. Company s rights in and to any Deliverables, as defined below, as well as the provisions of Sections 3 through 8,
shall survive the termination of this Agreement.    3.  Fee; Expenses.   
 (a) As consideration for the Services, Company shall pay to Senior Advisor a fee of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) per calendar year,
payable in equal monthly installments in arrears.    (b) Senior Advisor shall be entitled to reimbursement for Senior Advisor s
reasonable travel and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the performance of the Services. Company shall make such reimbursements upon submission to and approval of reasonable supporting documentation of such expenses, in accordance with
Company policy.  

4.  Independent Contractor.  This Agreement is intended to create an independent contractor relationship
between the parties for purposes of Federal, state and local law. Senior Advisor is not entitled to any benefits to which employees of Company may be entitled. Company will not withhold any taxes from any amounts payable to Senior Advisor under this
Agreement and will not make any contributions on behalf of or for the benefit of Senior Advisor. Nothing in this Agreement will be construed or implied to create a relationship of agency, partner, affiliate, joint employer or joint venturer. Neither
Company nor Senior Advisor will have the power or authority to act for the other in any manner or to create obligations or debts which would be binding on the other. Neither Company nor Senior Advisor will be responsible for any obligation of the
other or be responsible for any act or omission of the other.    5.  Confidential Information.   
 (a) Confidential Information shall mean confidential or proprietary information relating to the Company and its businesses, that is disclosed
by Company to Senior Advisor, including without limitation, information regarding Company s strategy, business plans, reports, studies, financial condition, intellectual property, operations, work products, identity of suppliers, subscribers,
employees and agents, and other information. Confidential Information shall not including information which: (i) is or becomes public knowledge without any action by, or involvement of, Senior Advisor; (ii) is disclosed by Senior Advisor
with the prior written approval of Company; or (iii) is disclosed pursuant to or as required by applicable law or regulation, including pursuant to any judicial or governmental order, provided that Senior Advisor gives Company sufficient prior
notice to contest such order. Senior Advisor agrees not to use the Confidential Information other than in connection with providing the Services. Senior Advisor further agrees to maintain the confidentiality of Confidential Information and not to
disclose, or permit any third party or entity access to, the Confidential Information (or any portion thereof) without prior written permission of Company (except such disclosure or access which is required to perform any obligations under this
Agreement or which is required by applicable law or regulation).    (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Senior
Advisor acknowledges that nothing in this Agreement prohibits Senior Advisor from reporting possible violations of law or regulation to any governmental agency or entity under any whistleblower protection provision of U.S. federal or state law or
regulation (including Section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or Section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002) or requires Senior Advisor to notify Company or any of its affiliates of any such report.  
 6.  Intellectual Property Rights.  Senior Advisor hereby agrees that, as between Company and Senior Advisor, Company will own all intellectual property
rights in any deliverables, materials or inventions prepared in connection with the Services (the  Deliverables ) and Confidential Information, including without limitation, all corrections, modifications and derivative works to such
Deliverables. Senior Advisor hereby acknowledges that the Deliverables are specially ordered or commissioned by Company and shall be considered works made for hire as such term is defined in the United States Copyright Act of 1976. Company shall be
considered the author for purposes of copyright and shall own all copyright rights in the  
      2  

Deliverables. To the extent that any copyrights or other intellectual property rights in the Deliverables do not vest in Company as a work made for hire, Senior Advisor hereby assigns to Company
all intellectual property rights he may now or hereafter possess in the Deliverables and agrees to execute all documents consistent with this Agreement, and take all reasonable actions that may be necessary to confirm such intellectual property
rights. Senior Advisor agrees that Company shall have the right to sue or exploit and edit the Deliverables in whole or in part in any and all media known or hereafter devised throughout the world in perpetuity without restriction and including the
right to license or assign such rights to any third party in Company s sole discretion.    7.  Representations and Warranties; Indemnifications. 
   (a) Each party hereby represents and warrants that it or he (as applicable) has the right to enter into and perform this Agreement.  
 (b) To the fullest extent permitted by law, each party shall, at its own expense, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the other party
(including in the case of Company, its controlled affiliates and their successors and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and licensees) from and against any and all allegations asserted in any claim, investigation, demand, suit,
cause of action, or proceeding to the extent arising from, in connection with or related to any breach of this Agreement by the indemnifying party (including in the case of Senior Advisor, any failure to comply with the provisions of
Section 5(a)) or any failure by the indemnifying party to comply with any applicable law.    (c) To the fullest extent permitted by
law, Company shall indemnify, and provide for advancement of expenses to, Senior Advisor as contemplated by Article 7 of the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Comcast Corporation dated as of May 13, 2009 (the  Bylaws ) as though Senior
Advisor were an  Indemnitee  (as defined in the Bylaws) and Senior Advisor s service as Senior Advisor were a  Covered Capacity  (as defined in the Bylaws).  
 8.  Miscellaneous.     (a)  Governing
Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without regard to conflict of laws principles. Any claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this
Agreement shall be brought exclusively in federal or state court located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the parties hereby consent to personal jurisdiction and venue in such court.  
 (b)  Waiver.  No failure or delay on the part of any party in exercising any right hereunder will operate as a waiver of, or impair, any
such right. No single or partial exercise of any right hereunder shall preclude any other or further exercise of any other right. No waiver of any right hereunder will be effective unless given in writing.  
 (c)  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter
herein and merges all prior discussions between them. No modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing signed by the parties.  
      3  

(d)  Notices.  All notices, demands, requests or other communications given under this
Agreement shall be in writing and be given by personal delivery, certified mail, return receipt requested, or nationally recognized overnight courier service to the address set forth below or as may subsequently in writing be requested.  

If to Senior Advisor:  
    
   If to Company:   

Michael J. Angelakis 
    
 Comcast Corporation  
 
 40 Morris Avenue 
    
 One Comcast Center  
 
 Bryn Mawr, PA 19010 
    
 Philadelphia, PA 19103  

Attention: General Counsel  
   (e)  Subcontractors; Assignment.  Senior Advisor shall not subcontract any of the Services to be
performed hereunder without Company s prior written consent. Senior Advisor shall not assign this Agreement without the prior written consent of Company. Company shall not assign this Agreement without the prior written consent of Senior
Advisor, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.    (f)  Publicity.  Senior Advisor shall not use any trademarks, service marks,
trade names, or other names or logos of Company in any advertising or publicity and, subject to the provisions of Section 5(a)(iii), shall not issue any public statement concerning this Agreement or the Services without the prior written
consent of Company. Neither party shall issue any press releases or, subject to the provisions of Section 5(a)(iii), approve any publicity related to this Agreement without the prior approval of the other party.  
 (g)  Company Property.  All files, records, documents, and other materials relating to the business of Company, whether prepared by
Senior Advisor during the term of this Agreement or otherwise coming into his possession during the term of this Agreement, in either case in relation to the performance of the Services or the matters contemplated by this Agreement, shall remain the
property of Company during the term of this Agreement and thereafter. Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, Senior Advisor shall promptly return to Company all such materials and all copies thereof to Company.  
 [ Remainder of page is intentionally blank .]  
      4  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have entered into this Advisor Agreement effective as of the
Effective Date.      

Comcast Corporation 

Michael J. Angelakis  

By: 
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block  

/s/ Michael J. Angelakis   
 
 Name: 
   
 Arthur R. Block 

Title: 
   
 Executive Vice President 

Signature Page to
Advisor Agreement   

</EX-10.67>

<EX-10.68>
 9
 d49239dex1068.htm
 EX-10.68

EX-10.68 

Exhibit 10.68   
 Comcast Corporation    One Comcast
Center    1701 John F. Kennedy Boulevard  
 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103  
 November 24, 2015    Michael J. Angelakis  
 c/o Comcast Corporation    One Comcast Center  
 1701 John F. Kennedy Boulevard    Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
   Dear Michael:    This letter agreement (this
  Letter Agreement  ) is entered into by and between Michael J. Angelakis (the   Employee  ) and Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (  Comcast   and, together with its subsidiaries, the
  Company  ).    Reference is made to (i) the Employment Agreement dated as of November 22, 2011, as amended (the
  Employment Agreement  ), by and between the Employee and Comcast, (ii) the Advisor Agreement dated as of the date hereof and effective as of January 1, 2016 (as may be amended from time to time, the   Advisor
Agreement  ) by and between the Employee and Comcast, (iii) the Shareholders Agreement dated as of the date hereof and effective as of January 1, 2016 (as may be amended from time to time, the   Shareholders
Agreement  ) by and among Comcast, Atairos Group, Inc., a Cayman Islands exempted company (  Atairos  ), Comcast AG Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (  Comcast Shareholder  ), Atairos
Partners, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership (  ManagementCo Shareholder  ), and Atairos Management, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the   Manager  ) and (iv) the Letter Agreement dated as of
the date hereof and effective as of January 1, 2016 (as may be amended from time to time, the   Side Letter  ) by and among the Employee, Comcast, Atairos, Comcast Shareholder, ManagementCo Shareholder and the Manager.
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein will have the meanings ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement.    For good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      

1. 
    Termination of Employment . The Employee s employment with the Company shall terminate by mutual agreement of the Employee and Comcast
effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2015 (the   Separation Date  ). For the avoidance of doubt, the parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the Employee ceased being an executive officer of the Company as of
June 30, 2015 and that the termination of the Employee s employment with the Company in accordance with this Section 1 shall not constitute a Termination Without Cause by the Company or

a Termination with Good Reason by the Employee under Section 6(d) of the Employment Agreement. From the date hereof through the Separation Date, the Employee will continue to receive his
Base Salary, in accordance with Section 3(a) of the Employment Agreement, will continue to be entitled to participate in the Company s Benefit Plans, in accordance with Section 4 of the Employment Agreement, and will continue to be
eligible for payment or reimbursement of business expenses, in accordance with Section 5 of the Employment Agreement.        

2. 
  Severance . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, the Employee shall not be entitled to receive any severance or similar payments or benefits in connection with the termination of
the Employee s employment in accordance with Section 1 above, including, for the avoidance of doubt, any payment or benefit under Section 7 of the Employment Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in connection with the termination
of his employment, the Employee will be entitled to payment of the Employee s then-current Base Salary, in accordance with Section 3(a) of the Employment Agreement, through the Separation Date, payment for any accrued but unused vacation
time, any amounts payable for any unreimbursed business expenses and any vested rights under any compensation or benefit plans or programs.        

3. 
  2015 Cash Incentive Compensation . Notwithstanding the termination of his employment, the Employee shall be eligible to receive his annual cash bonus in respect of the 2015 fiscal year under the Company s
Cash Bonus Plan in accordance with Section 3(d)(ii) of the Employment Agreement, which such bonus shall be payable on or before March 15, 2016 in accordance with the Company s ordinary course practices.    

4. 
  Equity Incentive Compensation . The parties agree and acknowledge that, effective as of June 30, 2015, the Employee ceased to be eligible to receive any equity incentive awards under the Company s
Restricted Stock Plan, Stock Option Plan or any other annual (or other) equity-based compensation plan maintained by the Company (collectively, the   Equity Incentive Plans  ). Any outstanding Equity Incentive Plan awards held by the
Employee as of the Separation Date shall continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement and Equity Incentive Plan as if the Employee s employment with the Company had continued following the Separation Date;
 provided ,  however , that, notwithstanding the terms of any award agreement or Equity Incentive Plan, upon the occurrence of an Initial CEO Event or Cause Event (in each case, as defined in the Shareholders Agreement), any unvested or
unexercised portion of such equity-incentive awards shall be forfeited or cease to be exercisable, as applicable, without the payment of any consideration therefor. For the avoidance of doubt, the Employee s termination of employment with the
Company shall not be treated as a termination for  Cause  under any of the Equity Incentive Plans.        

5. 
    Deferred Compensation . Prior to the Separation Date, the Employee shall remain eligible to re-defer amounts under the Company s deferred
compensation plans and     
      -2-  

programs in accordance with Section 3(e) of the Employment Agreement. The Company shall credit $1,914,422 to the Employee s account under the Company s 2005 Deferred Compensation
Plan as of January 1, 2016. The Employee s deferred compensation amounts will be credited under the Company s 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan at the Applicable Interest Rate (as defined therein) for active employees through
June 30, 2016. Following June 30, 2016, the Employee shall be treated as a non-employee for all purposes under the Company s deferred compensation plans or programs (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the Company s 2005
Deferred Compensation Plan).        

6. 
  Restrictive Covenants . Without limiting the covenants and agreements set forth in Section 5 (non-solicitation and non-competition) of the Side Letter, the Company agrees, as of the Separation Date, to waive
the covenants and agreements set forth in Section 8(a) (non-solicitation), Sections 8(b) and (c) (non-competition) and Section 8(h) (notification) of the Employment Agreement. Section 8(d) (confidentiality) of the Employment
Agreement is incorporated herein by reference as if such provision was set forth herein in full. For the avoidance of doubt, the Employee shall continue to be subject to the obligations under Section 8(d) of the Employment Agreement at all
times prior to and following the Separation Date in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement with respect to Confidential Information that he obtains, creates or otherwise has access to prior to the Separation Date,  provided ,
that notwithstanding the terms of Section 8(d) of the Employment Agreement, the Employee shall not be required to notify the Company of his disclosure of Confidential Information where such disclosure is a result of reporting a possible
violation of law to a governmental entity or law enforcement, making a disclosure that is protected under the whistleblower protections of applicable law and/or participating in a governmental investigation. The parties hereto agree that, in the
event the Employee fails to comply with his obligations under Section 8(d) of the Employment Agreement, the Company shall have all of the rights and remedies available to it pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Employment Agreement, including
for the avoidance of doubt, the right to seek preliminary or permanent injunctive relief against the Employee.        

7. 
  Notices . All notices, demands, requests or other communications given under this Letter Agreement to any party shall be in writing and be given by personal delivery, certified mail, return receipt requested, or
nationally recognized overnight courier service, in each case, to the address specified on the first page of this Letter Agreement or as may subsequently in writing provided to the other party.    

8. 
  Withholding/Deductions; Section 409A; Successors; Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury; Limitation on Damages; Jurisdiction; Governing Law; Severability; Amendment and Waiver; Assignment . Sections 12
(withholding/deductions), 13 (Section 409A), 14 (successors), 15 (waiver of right to trial by jury), 16 (limitation on damages), 17 (jurisdiction), 18 (governing law), 21 (invalidity or unenforceability), 22 (amendment and waivers) and 23 (binding
effect; no assignment) of the Employment Agreement are incorporated herein by reference as if such provisions were set forth herein in full.    
      -3-  

9. 
  Counterparts; Effectiveness . This Letter Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were
upon the same instrument.        

10. 
  Entire Agreement . This Letter Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and, as of the Separation Date, supersedes and replaces in its entirety the
Employment Agreement (other than Sections 8(d), 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22 and 23 of the Employment Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect),  provided  that any accrued rights and obligations of the parties thereunder as
of the Separation Date shall be unaffected by the execution of this Letter Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Letter Agreement and the terms of any plans or policies of the Company (including the Employee Handbook),
the terms of this Letter Agreement shall control.    
      -4-  

Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing a copy of this letter where indicated
below and returning the same to the undersigned.       

Sincerely yours,  

COMCAST CORPORATION   

By: 
   
   /s/ Arthur R. Block   
 
 Name: 
   
 Arthur R. Block  
 
 Title: 
   
 Executive Vice President  

ACCEPTED AND AGREED:  

MICHAEL J. ANGELAKIS   

/s/ Michael J. Angelakis   
 
       Signature Page to
Letter Agreement   

</EX-10.68>

<EX-12.1>
 10
 d49239dex121.htm
 EX-12.1

EX-12.1 

Exhibit 12.1   
 Comcast Corporation    Statement Regarding Computation of Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends      

(a) 
 For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings is the amount resulting from (1) adding (a) pretax income from continuing operations before adjustment for noncontrolling interests in
consolidated subsidiaries or income or loss from equity investees, (b) fixed charges, (c) amortization of capitalized interest, (d) distributed income of equity investees and (e) our share of pretax losses of equity investees for which charges
arising from guarantees are included in fixed charges and (2) subtracting (i) interest capitalized, (ii) preference security dividend requirements of consolidated subsidiaries and (iii) the noncontrolling interest in pretax income of subsidiaries
that have not incurred fixed charges. Fixed charges is the sum of (w) interest expensed and capitalized, (x) amortized premiums, discounts and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness, (y) an estimate of the interest within rental expense and
(z) preference security dividend requirements of our consolidated subsidiaries. Preferred security dividend is the amount of pretax earnings that is required to pay the dividends on outstanding preference securities. Interest associated with our
uncertain tax positions is a component of income tax expense.    

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 11
 d49239dex211.htm
 EX-21.1

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1       

Legal Name   
    
    State/  
  Country of Organization    

Bravo Media LLC 
    
 NY  
 
 Centaur Funding Corporation 
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
 CNBC LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast ABB Note Consolidation, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Broadband Security, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Business Communications, LLC 
    
 PA  
 
 Comcast Cable Communications Management, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Cable Communications, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Cable Funding I, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Funding I, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Holdings Corporation 
    
 PA  
 
 Comcast IP Phone II, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast IP Phone, LLC 
    
 PA  
 
 Comcast Navy Acquisition, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Arkansas/Florida/Louisiana/Minnesota/Mississippi/Tennessee, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Boston, Inc. 
    
 NY  
 
 Comcast of California II, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of California III, Inc. 
    
 CA  
 
 Comcast of California IX, Inc. 
    
 CA  
 
 Comcast of California/Colorado, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of California/Colorado/Florida/Oregon, Inc. 
    
 GA  
 
 Comcast of California/Colorado/Illinois/Indiana/Michigan, LP 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of California/Maryland/Pennsylvania/Virginia/West Virginia, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of California/Massachusetts/Michigan/Utah, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Colorado IX, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Colorado/Florida/Michigan/New Mexico/Pennsylvania/Washington, LLC 
    
 CO  
 
 Comcast of Colorado/Pennsylvania/West Virginia, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Connecticut, Inc. 
    
 OK  
 
   Comcast of Connecticut/Georgia/Massachusetts/New Hampshire/New York/North Carolina/Virginia/Vermont, LLC  
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Florida/Georgia/Illinois/Michigan, LLC 
    
 FL  
 
 Comcast of Florida/Georgia/Pennsylvania, LP 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Garden State, L.P. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Houston, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Illinois/Indiana/Ohio, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Maine/New Hampshire, Inc. 
    
 NH  
 
 Comcast of Maryland, LLC 
    
 CO  
 
 Comcast of Massachusetts I, Inc. 
    
 MA  
 
 Comcast of Massachusetts II, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Massachusetts III, Inc. 
    
 DE   

Legal Name   
    
    State/  
  Country of Organization    

Comcast of Massachusetts/New Hampshire, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of New Jersey II, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Oregon II, Inc. 
    
 OR  
 
 Comcast of Philadelphia II, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Potomac, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of South Jersey, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of Southeast Pennsylvania, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast of the South 
    
 CO  
 
 Comcast of Utah II, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Programming Ventures V, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast QVC, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Shared Services, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast SportsNet Chicago, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Comcast Spotlight, LP 
    
 DE  
 
 CTI Towers, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 E! Entertainment Television, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Mile Hi Cable Partners, LP 
    
 CO  
 
 MSNBC Cable L.L.C. 
    
 DE  
 
 NBC Facilities, LLC 
    
 NY  
 
 NBCU New Site Holdings LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. 
    
 DE  
 
 NBCUniversal Media, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 NBCUniversal, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Open 4 Business Productions LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 TGC, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 United Artists Holdings, LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Universal Cable Productions LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. 
    
 FL  
 
 Universal City Studios Productions LLLP 
    
 DE  
 
 Universal Studios International B.V. 
    
 The Netherlands  
 
 Universal Studios Limited 
    
 United Kingdom  
 
 Universal Studios LLC 
    
 DE  
 
 Universal Television LLC 
    
 NY  
 
 Universal Television Networks 
    
 NY  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 12
 d49239dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Exhibit 23.1   
                   We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-101645, 333-101295, 333-104385, 333-121082, 333-123059, 333-130844, 333-130845, 333-130847, 333-150976, 333-161468,
333-174416, 333-174417, 333-179638, 333-183008, and 333-193903) and Form S-3 (No. 333-191239) of our reports dated February 5, 2016, relating to the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule of Comcast
Corporation, and the effectiveness of Comcast Corporation s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2015.   

/ S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE 
LLP    
 
    Philadelphia, Pennsylvania     February 5, 2016    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 13
 d49239dex232.htm
 EX-23.2

EX-23.2 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Exhibit 23.2   
                   We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-177681) and Form S-3 (No. 333-191239-05) of our reports dated February 5, 2016, relating to the consolidated
financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule of NBCUniversal Media, LLC and subsidiaries appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of NBCUniversal Media, LLC and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2015.

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 14
 d49239dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

I, Brian L. Roberts, certify that:       

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation;      

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      

c)  
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)  
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an Annual Report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

a)  
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.          

Date: February 5, 2016    

/ S / B RIAN  L. R OBERTS     
 
  Name: Brian L. Roberts   
 
  Title: Chief Executive Officer   

I, Michael J. Cavanagh, certify that:   

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation;      

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      

c)  
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)  
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an Annual Report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

a)  
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.              

Date: February 5, 2016    

/ S / M ICHAEL  J. C AVANAGH     
 
  Name: Michael J. Cavanagh   
 
  Title: Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 15
 d49239dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

I, Brian L. Roberts, certify that:       

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of NBCUniversal Media, LLC;      

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      

c)  
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)  
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an Annual Report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

a)  
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.          

Date: February 5, 2016    

/ S / B RIAN  L. R OBERTS     
 
  Name: Brian L. Roberts   
 
  Title: Principal Executive Officer   

I, Michael J. Cavanagh, certify that:   

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of NBCUniversal Media, LLC;      

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

a)  
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

b)  
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      

c)  
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)  
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an Annual Report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

a)  
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)  
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.          

Date: February 5, 2016    

/ S / M ICHAEL  J. C AVANAGH     
 
  Name: Michael J. Cavanagh   
 
  Title: Principal Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 16
 d49239dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

Certification Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act  

Exhibit 32.1   
                   February 5, 2016      Securities and Exchange Commission   
  100 F Street, N.E.      Washington, D.C.
20549      Ladies and Gentlemen:      The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation (the  Report ) for the purpose of complying with Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule
15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code.      Brian L. Roberts, the Chief Executive Officer and Michael J. Cavanagh, the Chief Financial Officer of Comcast Corporation, each certifies that, to the best of his knowledge:   

1.  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and      

2.  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Comcast Corporation.

/ S / B RIAN  L. R OBERTS    

Name: Brian L. Roberts     Title: Chief Executive Officer    

/ S / M ICHAEL  J. C AVANAGH    

Name: Michael J. Cavanagh     Title: Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 17
 d49239dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

Certification Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act  
     
   Exhibit 32.2              February 5, 2016      Securities and Exchange Commission   
  100 F Street, N.E.      Washington, D.C.
20549      Ladies and Gentlemen:      The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NBCUniversal Media, LLC (the  Report ) for the purpose of complying with Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule
15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code.      Brian L. Roberts, the Principal Executive Officer and Michael J. Cavanagh, the Principal Financial Officer of NBCUniversal Media, LLC, each certifies that, to the best of his knowledge:   

1.  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and      

2.  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of NBCUniversal Media,
LLC.           

/ S / B RIAN  L. R OBERTS     
 
    Name: Brian L. Roberts     Title: Principal Executive Officer    

/ S / M ICHAEL  J. C AVANAGH     
 
    Name: Michael J. Cavanagh     Title: Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 18
 cmcsa-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 19
 cmcsa-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 20
 cmcsa-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 21
 cmcsa-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 22
 cmcsa-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 23
 cmcsa-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

