<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090302_10-K_edgar_data_5272_0000950123-09-003734_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>7675876</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1662420</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>78564</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4293151</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>243</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>23</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-003734.hdr.sgml : 20090302
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090302061740
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-003734
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		28
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090302
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090302

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000005272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				132592361
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08787
		FILM NUMBER:		09645297

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		70 PINE ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10270
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127707000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		70 PINE STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10270

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700507

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Tc76agAtKOOh8An+llKpOj61+jZfYVLoNQZreq2/ZhsJJWJw3FxO8dyxMvcaTHY9
 xd9ku4YodYV3Z3EYeYdR2w==

 0000950123-09-003734.txt : 20090302

10-K
 1
 y74794e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file
     number 1-8787  

American International Group,
    Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

13-2592361 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    

70 Pine Street, New York, New York 

10270 

(Address of principal executive
    offices)  

(Zip
    Code)   

Registrant s
    telephone number, including area code
     (212) 770-7000   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, Par Value $2.50 Per Share

New York Stock Exchange

5.75%
     Series A-2 
    Junior Subordinated Debentures

New York Stock Exchange

4.875%
     Series A-3 
    Junior Subordinated Debentures

New York Stock Exchange

6.45%
     Series A-4 
    Junior Subordinated Debentures

New York Stock Exchange

7.70%
     Series A-5 
    Junior Subordinated Debentures

New York Stock Exchange

Corporate Units (composed of stock purchase contracts and junior
    subordinated debentures)

New York Stock Exchange

NIKKEI
    225   

    Index Market Index Target-Term
    Securities    

    due January 5, 2011

NYSE Arca

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Act.

Large
    accelerated
    filer    

Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer    

Smaller reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common
    equity held by nonaffiliates of the registrant computed by
    reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold
    of $26.46 as of June 30, 2008 (the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
    quarter), was approximately $61,753,000,000.

As of January 30, 2009, there were outstanding
    2,690,747,320 shares of Common Stock, $2.50 par value
    per share, of the registrant.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Table of
    Contents  

Index 

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

3

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

21

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

32

Item 2. 

Properties 

33

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

33

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

33

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

34

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

36

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

38

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

190

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

190

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

324

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

324

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

326

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

326

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

326

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

326

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

326

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

326

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

326

Signatures 

327

EX-3.I.F: FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS    
     EX-10.6: AMENDED AND RESTATED 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.49: 2005 SENIORS PARTNERS PLAN    
     EX-10.50: 2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN FOR SENIOR PARTNERS    
     EX-10.51: 2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN FOR PARTNERS    
     EX-10.52: 2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.53: SUMMARY OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION    
     EX-10.59: SENIOR PARTNERS PLAN    
     EX-10.60: PARTNERS PLAN    
     EX-10.62: AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.64: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF PERFORMANCE RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.65: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF TIME-VESTED RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.67: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF TIME-VESTED RSU AWARD AGREEMENT WITH THREE-YEAR PRO RATA VESTING    
     EX-10.68: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF TIME-VESTED RSU AWARD AGREEMENT WITH THREE-YEAR PRO RATA VESTING AND WITH EARLY RETIREMENT    
     EX-10.69: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR DEFERRED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.91: SERIES C PERPETUAL, CONVERTIBLE, PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.92: LETTER AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.93: SUPPORT AGREEMENT    
     EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23: CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP    
     EX-31: CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-32: CERTIFICATIONS    

2    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Part I  

Item 1.      

Business   

American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a Delaware
    corporation, is a holding company which, through its
    subsidiaries, is engaged in a broad range of insurance and
    insurance-related activities in the United States and abroad.
    AIG s primary activities include both General Insurance and
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services operations. Other
    significant activities include Financial Services and Asset
    Management.

Liquidity
    Events and Transactions with the NY Fed and the United
    States Department of the Treasury   

Liquidity
    Entering the Third Quarter of 2008   

AIG parent entered the third quarter of 2008 with
    $17.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents, including the
    remaining proceeds from the issuance of $20 billion of
    common stock, equity units, and junior subordinated debt
    securities in May 2008. In addition, AIG s securities
    lending collateral pool held $10.4 billion of cash and
    other short-term investments. On August 18, 2008, AIG
    raised $3.25 billion through the issuance of
    8.25% Notes Due 2018.

Strategic
    Review and Proposed Liquidity Measures   

From mid-July and throughout August 2008, AIG s then Chief
    Executive Officer, Robert Willumstad, was engaged in a strategic
    review of AIG s businesses.

During this time period, AIG was engaged in a review of measures
    to address the liquidity concerns in AIG s securities
    lending portfolio and to address the ongoing collateral calls
    with respect to the AIG Financial Products Corp. and  AIG
    Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries
    (collectively, AIGFP) super senior multi-sector credit default
    swap portfolio, which at July 31, 2008 totaled
    $16.1 billion. To facilitate this process, AIG asked a
    number of investment banking firms to discuss possible solutions
    to these issues. In late August, AIG engaged J.P. Morgan
    Securities, Inc. (J.P. Morgan) to assist in developing
    alternatives, including a potential additional capital raise.

Continuing
    Liquidity Pressures   

Historically, under AIG s securities lending program, cash
    collateral was received from borrowers and invested by AIG
    primarily in fixed maturity securities to earn a spread. AIG had
    received cash collateral from borrowers of 100 to
    102 percent of the value of the loaned securities. In light
    of more favorable terms offered by other lenders of securities,
    AIG accepted cash advanced by borrowers of less than the
    102 percent historically required by insurance regulators.
    Under an agreement with its insurance company subsidiaries
    participating in the securities lending program, AIG parent
    deposited collateral in an amount sufficient to address the
    deficit. AIG parent also deposited amounts into the collateral
    pool to offset losses realized by the pool in connection with
    sales of impaired securities. Aggregate deposits by AIG parent
    to or for the benefit of the securities lending collateral pool
    through August 31, 2008 totaled $3.3 billion.

In addition, from July 1, 2008 to August 31, 2008, the
    continuing decline in value of the super senior collateralized
    debt obligation (CDO) securities protected by AIGFP s super
    senior credit default swap portfolio, together with ratings
    downgrades of such CDO securities, resulted in AIGFP posting
    additional collateral in an aggregate net amount of
    $5.9 billion.

By the beginning of September 2008, these collateral postings
    and securities lending requirements were placing increasing
    stress on AIG parent s liquidity.

Rating
    Agencies   

In early September 2008, AIG met with the representatives of the
    principal rating agencies to discuss
     Mr. Willumstad s 
    strategic review as well as the liquidity issues arising from
    AIG s securities lending program and AIGFP s super
    senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio. On
    Friday, September 12, 2008, Standard  
    Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
    (S P), placed AIG on CreditWatch with negative

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    3 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

implications and noted that upon completion of its review, the
    agency could affirm AIG parent s current rating of AA- or
    lower the rating by one to three notches. AIG understood that
    both S P and Moody s Investors Service (Moody s)
    would re-evaluate AIG s ratings early in the week of
    September 15, 2008. Also on Friday, September 12,
    2008, AIG s subsidiaries, International Lease Finance
    Corporation (ILFC) and American General Finance, Inc. (AGF),
    were unable to replace all of their maturing commercial paper
    with new issuances of commercial paper. As a result, AIG
    advanced loans to these subsidiaries to meet their commercial
    paper obligations.

The
    Accelerated Capital Raise Attempt   

As a result of S P s action, AIG accelerated the
    process of attempting to raise additional capital and over the
    weekend of September 13 and 14, 2008 discussed potential capital
    injections and other liquidity measures with private equity
    firms, sovereign wealth funds and other potential investors. AIG
    kept the United States Department of the Treasury and the NY Fed
    informed of these efforts. AIG also engaged Blackstone Advisory
    Services LP to assist in developing alternatives, including a
    potential additional capital raise. Despite offering a number of
    different structures through this process, AIG did not receive a
    proposal it could act upon in a timely fashion. AIG s
    difficulty in this regard resulted in part from the dramatic
    decline in its common stock price from $22.76 on
    September 8, 2008 to $12.14 on September 12, 2008.
    This decrease in stock price made it unlikely that AIG would be
    able to raise the large amounts of capital that would be
    necessary if AIG s long-term debt ratings were downgraded.

AIG
    Attempts to Enter into a Syndicated Secured Lending
    Facility   

On Monday, September 15, 2008, AIG was again unable to
    access the commercial paper market for its primary commercial
    paper programs, AIG Funding, ILFC and AGF. Payments under the
    programs totaled $2.2 billion for the day, and AIG advanced
    loans to ILFC and AGF to meet their funding obligations. In
    addition, AIG experienced returns under its securities lending
    programs which led to cash payments of $5.2 billion to
    securities lending counterparts on that day.

On Monday morning, September 15, 2008, AIG met with
    representatives of Goldman, Sachs   Co.,
    J.P. Morgan and the NY Fed to discuss the creation of a
    $75 billion secured lending facility to be syndicated among
    a number of large financial institutions. The facility was
    intended to act as a bridge loan to meet AIG parent s
    liquidity needs until AIG could sell sufficient assets to
    stabilize and enhance its liquidity position. Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. and J.P. Morgan immediately commenced
    syndication efforts.

The
    Rating Agencies Downgrade AIG s Long-Term Debt
    Rating   

In the late afternoon of September 15, 2008, S P
    downgraded AIG s long-term debt rating by three notches,
    Moody s downgraded AIG s long-term debt rating by two
    notches and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded AIG s
    long-term debt rating by two notches. As a consequence of the
    rating actions, AIGFP estimated that it would need in excess of
    $20 billion in order to fund additional collateral demands
    and transaction termination payments in a short period of time.
    Subsequently, in a period of approximately 15 days
    following the rating actions, AIGFP was required to fund
    approximately $32 billion, reflecting not only the effect
    of the rating actions but also changes in market values and
    other factors.

The
    Private Sector Solution Fails   

By Tuesday morning, September 16, 2008, it had become
    apparent that Goldman, Sachs   Co. and
    J.P. Morgan were unable to syndicate a lending facility.
    Moreover, the downgrades, combined with a steep drop in
    AIG s common stock price to $4.76 on September 15,
    2008, had resulted in counterparties withholding payments from
    AIG and refusing to transact with AIG even on a secured
    short-term basis. As a result, AIG was unable to borrow in the
    short-term lending markets. To provide liquidity, on Tuesday,
    September 16, 2008 both ILFC and AGF drew down on their
    existing revolving credit facilities, resulting in borrowings of
    approximately $6.5 billion and $4.6 billion,
    respectively.

Also, on September 16, 2008, AIG was notified by its
    insurance regulators that it would no longer be permitted to
    borrow funds from its insurance company subsidiaries under a
    revolving credit facility that AIG maintained with certain of
    its insurance subsidiaries acting as lenders. Subsequently, the
    insurance regulators required AIG to repay

4    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

any outstanding loans under that facility and to terminate it.
    The intercompany facility was terminated effective
    September 22, 2008.

Fed
    Credit Agreement   

By early Tuesday afternoon on September 16, 2008, it was
    clear that AIG had no viable private sector solution to its
    liquidity issues. At this point, AIG received the terms of a
    secured lending agreement that the NY Fed was prepared to
    provide. AIG estimated that it had an immediate need for cash in
    excess of its available liquid resources. That night, AIG s
    Board of Directors approved borrowing from the NY Fed based on a
    term sheet that set forth the terms of the secured credit
    agreement and related equity participation. Over the next six
    days, AIG elected Edward M. Liddy Director, Chairman and CEO,
    replacing Robert Willumstad in those positions, and negotiated a
    definitive credit agreement with the NY Fed and borrowed, on a
    secured basis, approximately $37 billion from the NY Fed
    before formally entering into the Credit Agreement, dated as of
    September 22, 2008 (as amended, the Fed Credit Agreement)
    between AIG and the NY Fed, which established the credit
    facility (Fed Facility).

On September 22, 2008, AIG entered into the Fed Credit
    Agreement in the form of a two-year secured loan and a Guarantee
    and Pledge Agreement (the Pledge Agreement) with the NY Fed. See
    Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
    information regarding the terms of and borrowings under the Fed
    Credit Agreement and subsequent amendments thereto.

AIG s
    Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of the Fed
    Facility   

In October 2008, AIG announced a restructuring of its
    operations, which contemplated retaining its U.S. property
    and casualty and foreign general insurance businesses and a
    continuing ownership interest in certain of its foreign life
    insurance operations while exploring disposition opportunities
    for its remaining businesses. Proceeds from sales of these
    assets are contractually required to be applied as mandatory
    prepayments pursuant to the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement.
    Also in October 2008, AIGFP began unwinding its businesses and
    portfolios. AIGFP is now entering into new derivative
    transactions only to maintain its current portfolio, reduce risk
    and hedge the currency and interest rate risks associated with
    its affiliated businesses. As part of its orderly wind-down,
    AIGFP is also opportunistically terminating contracts. Due to
    the long-term duration of AIGFP s derivative contracts and
    the complexity of AIGFP s portfolio, AIG expects that an
    orderly wind-down of AIGFP will take a substantial period of
    time.

On November 9, 2008, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury announced a set of transactions that
    were implemented during the fourth quarter of 2008 pursuant to
    which, among other actions, AIG issued $40 billion of
    fixed-rate cumulative perpetual serial preferred stock
    (Series D Preferred Stock) to the United States Department
    of the Treasury, terminated $62 billion of credit default
    swaps written by AIGFP and resolved and terminated its
    U.S. securities lending program.

On March 2, 2009, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury announced agreements in principle to
    modify the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement and the
    Series D Preferred Stock and to provide a $30 billion
    equity capital commitment facility. The parties also announced
    their intention to take a number of other actions intended to
    strengthen AIG s capital position, enhance its liquidity,
    reduce its borrowing costs and facilitate AIG s asset
    disposition program.

See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
    further discussion of this strategy.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    5 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Principal
    Business Units   

The principal business units in each of AIG s operating
    segments during 2008 are shown below. For information on
    AIG s business segments, see Note 3 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

General
    Insurance   

American Home Assurance Company (American Home)

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.
    (National Union)

New Hampshire Insurance Company (New Hampshire)

Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington)

The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company
    (HSB) 1 

Transatlantic Reinsurance Company

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company

American International Underwriters Overseas, Ltd. (AIUO)

AIU Insurance Company (AIUI)

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services   

Domestic:

Foreign:

American General Life Insurance Company (AIG American General)

American Life Insurance Company (ALICO)

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA)

AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star Life)

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York
    (USLIFE)

AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison Life)

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC)

American International Assurance Company, Limited, together with
    American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited (AIA)

AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity)

American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO)

AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company (AIG SunAmerica)

Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan)

The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company
    (Philamlife)

Financial
    Services   

International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC)

AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and
    their respective subsidiaries

American General Finance, Inc. (AGF)

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. (AIGCFG)

Imperial A.I. Credit Companies (A.I. Credit)

Asset
    Management   

AIG SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. (SAAMCo)

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp. and its subsidiaries
    and affiliated companies (collectively, AIG Investments)

AIG Private Bank Ltd. (AIG Private
    Bank) 2 

AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp. (AIG Global Real Estate)

1  On

    December 22, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell HSB
    Group, Inc., the parent company of HSB, to Munich Re Group for
    $742 million. Subject to satisfaction of certain closing
    conditions, including regulatory approvals, AIG expects the sale
    to close by the end of the first quarter of 2009.

2  On

    December 1, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell AIG
    Private Bank to Aabar Investments PJSC for $328 million.
    Subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including
    regulatory approvals, AIG expects the sale to close by the end
    of the first quarter of 2009.

6    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

At December 31, 2008, AIG and its subsidiaries had
    approximately 116,000 employees.

AIG s Internet address for its corporate website is
     www.aigcorporate.com.  AIG makes available free of charge,
    through the Investor Information section of AIG s corporate
    website, Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to
    those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a), 14(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). AIG also makes
    available on its corporate website copies of the charters for
    its Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Compensation
    and Management Resources Committees, as well as its Corporate
    Governance Guidelines (which include Director Independence
    Standards), Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial
    Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Employee Code of
    Conduct and Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy. Except
    for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    information contained on AIG s website or that can be
    accessed through its website is not incorporated by reference
    into this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Throughout this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    AIG presents its operations in the way it believes will be most
    meaningful, as well as most transparent. Certain of the
    measurements used by AIG management are  non-GAAP financial
    measures  under SEC rules and regulations. Statutory
    underwriting profit (loss) is determined in accordance with
    accounting principles prescribed by insurance regulatory
    authorities. For an explanation of why AIG management considers
    this  non-GAAP measure  useful to investors, see
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations. 

General
    Insurance Operations  

AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries are multiple line
    companies writing substantially all lines of property and
    casualty insurance and various personal lines both domestically
    and abroad and constitute the AIG Property Casualty Group
    (formerly known as Domestic General Insurance) and the Foreign
    General Insurance Group.

AIG Property Casualty Group is comprised of Commercial
    Insurance, Transatlantic, Personal Lines and Mortgage Guaranty
    businesses.

AIG is diversified both in terms of classes of business and
    geographic locations. In General Insurance, workers 
    compensation business is the largest class of business written
    and represented approximately 11 percent of net premiums
    written for the year ended December 31, 2008. During 2008,
    9 percent, 5 percent and 5 percent of the direct
    General Insurance premiums written (gross premiums less return
    premiums and cancellations, excluding reinsurance assumed and
    before deducting reinsurance ceded) were written in California,
    New York and Texas, respectively. No other state or foreign
    country accounted for more than five percent of such premiums.

The majority of AIG s General Insurance business is in the
    casualty classes, which tend to involve longer periods of time
    for the reporting and settling of claims. This may increase the
    risk and uncertainty with respect to AIG s loss reserve
    development.

Commercial
    Insurance   

AIG s primary property casualty division is Commercial
    Insurance. Commercial Insurance s business in the United
    States and Canada is conducted through American Home, National
    Union, Lexington, HSB and certain other General Insurance
    company subsidiaries of AIG. During 2008, Commercial Insurance
    accounted for 47 percent of AIG s General Insurance
    net premiums written.

Commercial Insurance writes substantially all classes of
    business insurance, accepting such business mainly from
    insurance brokers. This provides Commercial Insurance the
    opportunity to select specialized markets and retain
    underwriting control. Any licensed broker is able to submit
    business to Commercial Insurance without the traditional
    agent-company contractual relationship, but such broker usually
    has no authority to commit Commercial Insurance to accept a risk.

In addition to writing substantially all classes of business
    insurance, including large commercial or industrial property
    insurance, excess liability, inland marine, environmental,
    workers  compensation and excess and umbrella coverages,
    Commercial Insurance offers many specialized forms of insurance
    such as aviation, accident and health,

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    7 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

equipment breakdown, directors and officers liability
    (D O),
     difference-in-conditions, 
    kidnap-ransom, export credit and political risk, and various
    types of professional errors and omissions coverages. Also
    included in Commercial Insurance are the operations of AIG Risk
    Management, which provides insurance and risk management
    programs for large corporate customers and is a leading provider
    of customized structured insurance products, and AIG
    Environmental, which focuses specifically on providing specialty
    products to clients with environmental exposures. Lexington
    writes surplus lines for risks on which conventional insurance
    companies do not readily provide insurance coverage, either
    because of complexity or because the coverage does not lend
    itself to conventional contracts. The AIG Worldsource Division
    introduces and coordinates AIG s products and services to
     U.S.-based 
    multinational clients and foreign corporations doing business in
    the U.S.

Transatlantic   

Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic) subsidiaries offer
    reinsurance capacity on both a treaty and facultative basis both
    in the United States and abroad. Transatlantic structures
    programs for a full range of property and casualty products with
    an emphasis on specialty risk. Transatlantic is a public company
    owned 58.9 percent by AIG and therefore is included in
    AIG s consolidated financial statements.

Personal
    Lines   

AIG s Personal Lines operations provide automobile
    insurance through 21st Century Insurance, its direct
    marketing distribution channel, and the Agency Auto Division,
    its independent agent/broker distribution channel. It also
    provides a broad range of coverages for high net worth
    individuals through the AIG Private Client Group (Private Client
    Group). Coverages for the Personal Lines operations are written
    predominantly in the United States.

Mortgage
    Guaranty   

The main business of the subsidiaries of United Guaranty
    Corporation (UGC) is the issuance of residential mortgage
    guaranty insurance, both domestically and internationally, that
    covers the first loss for credit defaults on high loan-to-value
    conventional first-lien mortgages for the purchase or refinance
    of one to four family residences.

On October 13, 2008, United Guaranty Residential Insurance
    Company (UGRIC) and United Guaranty Mortgage Indemnity Company
    (UGMIC) were downgraded from A+ to A- and placed on CreditWatch
    negative by S P, and on February 13, 2009, UGRIC was
    downgraded from Aa3 to A3 and placed under review for possible
    downgrade by Moody s. All U.S-based mortgage insurers are
    currently subject to a Government Sponsored Enterprise (GSE)
    remediation plan as a result of industry-wide rating agency
    downgrades. UGRIC and UGMIC continue to write new domestic
    first-lien mortgage insurance and remain eligible mortgage
    insurers with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

Foreign
    General Insurance   

AIG s Foreign General Insurance group writes both
    commercial and consumer lines of insurance which is primarily
    underwritten through American International Underwriters (AIU),
    a marketing unit consisting of wholly owned agencies and
    insurance companies. The Foreign General Insurance group also
    includes business written by AIG s foreign-based insurance
    subsidiaries. The Foreign General Insurance group uses various
    marketing methods and multiple distribution channels to write
    both commercial and consumer lines insurance with certain
    refinements for local laws, customs and needs. AIU operates in
    Asia, the Pacific Rim, Europe, the U.K., Africa, the Middle East
    and Latin America. During 2008, the Foreign General Insurance
    group accounted for 32 percent of AIG s General
    Insurance net premiums written.

Discussion
    and Analysis of Consolidated Net Losses and Loss Expense Reserve
    Development  

The reserve for net losses and loss expenses represents the
    accumulation of estimates for reported losses (case basis
    reserves) and provisions for losses incurred but not reported
    (IBNR), both reduced by applicable reinsurance recoverable and
    the discount for future investment income, where permitted. Net
    losses and loss expenses are charged to income as incurred.

8    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense
    (loss reserves) established with respect to foreign business are
    set and monitored in terms of the currency in which payment is
    expected to be made. Therefore, no assumption is included for
    changes in currency rates. See also Note 1(dd) to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Management reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves
    utilizing a number of analytical reserve development techniques.
    Through the use of these techniques, management is able to
    monitor the adequacy of AIG s established reserves and
    determine appropriate assumptions for inflation. Also, analysis
    of emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve
    redundancies or deficiencies and IBNR emergence, allows
    management to determine any required adjustments.

The  Analysis of Consolidated Losses and Loss Expense
    Reserve Development  table presents the development of net
    losses and loss expense reserves for calendar years 1998 through
    2008. Immediately following this table is a second table that
    presents all data on a basis that excludes asbestos and
    environmental net losses and loss expense reserve development.
    The opening reserves held are shown at the top of the table for
    each year-end date. The amount of loss reserve discount included
    in the opening reserve at each date is shown immediately below
    the reserves held for each year. The undiscounted reserve at
    each date is thus the sum of the discount and the reserve held.

The upper half of the table presents the cumulative amounts paid
    during successive years related to the undiscounted opening loss
    reserves. For example, in the table that excludes asbestos and
    environmental losses, with respect to the net losses and loss
    expense reserve of $25.29 billion at December 31,
    2001, by the end of 2008 (seven years later) $36.35 billion
    had actually been paid in settlement of these net loss reserves.
    In addition, as reflected in the lower section of the table, the
    original undiscounted reserve of $26.71 billion was
    reestimated to be $46.69 billion at December 31, 2008.
    This increase from the original estimate generally results from
    a combination of a number of factors, including reserves being
    settled for larger amounts than originally estimated. The
    original estimates will also be increased or decreased as more
    information becomes known about the individual claims and
    overall claim frequency and severity patterns. The redundancy
    (deficiency) depicted in the table, for any particular calendar
    year, presents the aggregate change in estimates over the period
    of years subsequent to the calendar year reflected at the top of
    the respective column heading. For example, the deficiency of
    $107 million at December 31, 2008 related to
    December 31, 2007 net losses and loss expense reserves
    of $70.03 billion represents the cumulative amount by which
    reserves in 2007 and prior years have developed unfavorably
    during 2008.

The bottom of each table below presents the remaining
    undiscounted and discounted net loss reserve for each year. For
    example, in the table that excludes asbestos and environmental
    losses, for the 2003 year-end, the remaining undiscounted
    reserves held at December 31, 2008 are $15.40 billion,
    with a corresponding discounted net reserve of
    $14.36 billion.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    9 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Analysis
    of Consolidated Losses and Loss Expense Reserve
    Development  

The following table presents for each calendar year the
    losses and loss expense reserves and the development thereof
    including those with respect to asbestos and environmental
    claims. See also Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Operating Review   General Insurance
    Operations   Liability for unpaid claims and claims
    adjustment expense. 

10    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following table presents the gross liability (before
    discount), reinsurance recoverable and net liability recorded at
    each year-end and the reestimation of these amounts as of
    December 31, 2008: 

Analysis
    of Consolidated Losses and Loss Expense Reserve Development
    Excluding Asbestos and Environmental Losses and Loss Expense
    Reserve Development  

The following table presents for each calendar year the
    losses and loss expense reserves and the development thereof
    excluding those with respect to asbestos and environmental
    claims. See also Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Operating Review   General Insurance
    Operations   Liability for unpaid claims and claims
    adjustment expense. 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    11 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following table presents the gross liability (before
    discount), reinsurance recoverable and net liability recorded at
    each year-end and the reestimation of these amounts as of
    December 31, 2008: 

The liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense as
    reported in AIG s consolidated balance sheet at
    December 31, 2008 differs from the total reserve reported
    in the Annual Statements filed with state insurance departments
    and, where appropriate, with foreign regulatory authorities. The
    differences at December 31, 2008 relate primarily to
    reserves for certain foreign operations not required to be
    reported in the United States for statutory reporting purposes.
    Further, statutory practices in the United States require
    reserves to be shown net of applicable reinsurance recoverable.

The reserve for gross losses and loss expenses is prior to
    reinsurance and represents the accumulation for reported losses
    and IBNR. Management reviews the adequacy of established gross
    loss reserves in the manner previously described for net loss
    reserves.

For further discussion regarding net reserves for losses and
    loss expenses, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Results of Operations   Segment Results  
    General Insurance Operations   Liability for unpaid
    claims and claims adjustment expense.

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services Operations  

AIG s Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    operations provide insurance, financial and investment-oriented
    products throughout the world. Insurance-oriented products
    consist of individual and group life, payout annuities
    (including structured settlements), endowment and accident and
    health policies. Retirement savings products consist generally
    of fixed and variable annuities.

12    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Foreign
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services   

In its Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    businesses, AIG operates principally through ALICO, AIG Star
    Life, AIG Edison Life, AIA, Nan Shan and Philamlife. ALICO is
    incorporated in Delaware and all of its business is written
    outside the United States. ALICO has operations either directly
    or through subsidiaries in Europe, including the U.K., Latin
    America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, South Asia and the Far
    East, with Japan being the largest territory. AIA operates
    primarily in China (including Hong Kong), Singapore, Malaysia,
    Thailand, Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam, Indonesia and
    India. The operations in India are conducted through a joint
    venture, Tata AIG Life Insurance Company Limited. Nan Shan
    operates in Taiwan. Philamlife is the largest life insurer in
    the Philippines. AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life operate in
    Japan. Operations in foreign countries comprised 80 percent
    of Life Insurance   Retirement Services premiums and
    other considerations in 2008.

The Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    companies have over 350,000 full and part-time agents, as well
    as independent producers, and sell their products largely to
    indigenous persons in local and foreign currencies. In addition
    to the agency outlets, these companies also distribute their
    products through direct marketing channels, such as mass
    marketing, and through brokers and other distribution outlets,
    such as financial institutions in 2008.

Domestic
    Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement
    Services    

AIG s principal  Domestic Life Insurance and
    Domestic  Retirement Services  operations include AGLA, AIG
    American General, AIG Annuity, USLIFE, VALIC and AIG SunAmerica.
    These companies utilize multiple distribution channels including
    independent producers, brokerage, career agents and financial
    institutions to offer life insurance, annuity and accident and
    health products and services, as well as financial and other
    investment products. The  Domestic Life Insurance and
    Domestic Retirement Services  operations comprised
    20 percent of total Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services premiums and other considerations.

Reinsurance  

AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries worldwide operate
    primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct
    account and securing reinsurance on that portion of the risk in
    excess of the limit which they wish to retain. This operating
    policy differs from that of many insurance companies that will
    underwrite only up to their net retention limit, thereby
    requiring the broker or agent to secure commitments from other
    underwriters for the remainder of the gross risk amount.

Various AIG profit centers, including Commercial Insurance, AIU
    and AIG Risk Finance, as well as certain Life Insurance
    subsidiaries, use AIRCO as a reinsurer for certain of their
    businesses. In Bermuda, AIRCO discounts reserves attributable to
    certain classes of business assumed from other AIG subsidiaries.

For a further discussion of reinsurance, see Item 1A. Risk
    Factors   Reinsurance; Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Risk Management   Insurance
    Risk Management   Reinsurance; and Note 1 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    13 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Insurance
    Investment Operations  

A significant portion of AIG s General Insurance and Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services revenues are derived
    from AIG s insurance investment operations. The following
    table summarizes the investment results of the insurance
    operations:

(a)   

Including investment income due and accrued and real estate.
    Also, includes collateral assets invested under the securities
    lending program.  

(b)   

Net investment income divided by the annual average sum of
    cash and invested assets.  

(c)   

Net investment income divided by the annual average invested
    assets.  

AIG s worldwide insurance investment policy places primary
    emphasis on investments in government and fixed income
    securities in all of its portfolios and, to a lesser extent,
    investments in high-yield bonds, common stocks, real estate,
    hedge funds and other alternative investments, in order to
    enhance returns on policyholders  funds and generate net
    investment income. The ability to implement this policy is
    somewhat limited in certain territories as there may be a lack
    of attractive long-term investment opportunities or investment
    restrictions may be imposed by the local regulatory authorities.

Financial
    Services Operations  

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
    activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, consumer
    finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft
    Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations
    generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial
    Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial
    Services results principally by providing insurance premium
    financing for both AIG s policyholders and those of other
    insurers.

Aircraft
    Leasing   

AIG s Aircraft Leasing operations are the operations of
    ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new
    and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic
    airlines. Revenues also result from the remarketing of
    commercial jet aircraft for ILFC s own account, and
    remarketing and fleet management services for airlines and
    financial institutions. See also Note 3 to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Capital
    Markets   

Capital Markets is comprised of the operations of AIGFP, which
    engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial
    transactions, including standard and customized financial
    products involving commodities, credit,

14    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

currencies, energy, equities and interest rates. AIGFP also
    invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and principal
    investments and engages in borrowing activities that involve
    issuing standard and structured notes and other securities and
    entering into guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs). Due to
    the extreme market conditions experienced in 2008, the
    downgrades of AIG s credit ratings by the rating agencies,
    as well as AIG s intent to refocus on its core businesses,
    AIGFP has begun to unwind its businesses and portfolios
    including those associated with credit protection written
    through credit default swaps on super senior risk tranches of
    diversified pools of loans and debt securities. See
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations   Outlook  
    Financial Services.

Consumer
    Finance   

AIG s Consumer Finance operations in North America are
    principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its
    revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans,
    secured and unsecured non-real estate loans and retail sales
    finance receivables. In the second quarter of 2008, AGF ceased
    its wholesale originations (originations through mortgage
    brokers). In light of severe stress in the U.S. housing sector,
    AGF also closed 179 branch offices and reduced new loan
    originations in the fourth quarter of 2008.

AIG s foreign consumer finance operations are principally
    conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging
    and developing markets. AIGCFG has operations in Argentina,
    China, Brazil, Hong Kong, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland,
    Taiwan, Thailand, India and Colombia. Through February 18,
    2009, AIGCFG had entered into contracts to sell certain of its
    operations in Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines.

Asset
    Management Operations  

AIG s Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety
    of investment-related services and investment products. These
    services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds
    and institutions (including AIG subsidiaries) globally through
    AIG s Spread-Based Investment business, Institutional Asset
    Management, and Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds business.
    Also included in Asset Management operations are the results of
    certain SunAmerica sponsored partnership investments.

Revenues and operating income (loss) for Asset Management are
    affected by the general conditions in the equity and credit
    markets. In addition, net realized gains (losses) and
    performance fee (carried interest) revenues are contingent upon
    various fund closings, maturity levels, investment management
    performance and market conditions.

Spread-Based
    Investment Business   

AIG s Spread-Based Investment business includes the results
    of AIG s proprietary spread-based investment operations,
    the Matched Investment Program (MIP) and the Guaranteed
    Investment Contracts (GIC), which the MIP replaced. Due to the
    extreme market conditions experienced in 2008 and the downgrades
    of AIG s credit ratings, the MIP is currently in run-off.
    As previously disclosed, the GIC has been in run-off since the
    inception of the MIP in 2006. No additional debt issuances are
    expected for either the MIP or GIC for the foreseeable future.

Institutional
    Asset Management   

AIG s Institutional Asset Management business, conducted
    through AIG Investments, provides an array of investment
    products and services globally to institutional investors,
    pension funds, AIG subsidiaries, AIG affiliates and high net
    worth investors. These products include traditional equity and
    fixed maturity securities, and a wide range of real estate,
    private banking and alternative asset classes. Services include
    investment advisory and sub-advisory services, investment
    monitoring and transaction structuring. Within the equity and
    fixed maturity asset classes, AIG Investments offers various
    forms of structured investments. Within the alternative asset
    class, AIG Investments offers hedge and private equity funds and
    fund-of-funds, direct investments and distressed debt
    investments. AIG Global Real Estate provides a wide range of
    real estate investment, development and management services for
    AIG subsidiaries, as well as for third-party institutional
    investors, pension funds and high net worth investors. AIG
    Global Real Estate also maintains a proprietary real estate
    investment portfolio through various joint venture platforms.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    15 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG expects to divest its Institutional Asset Management
    businesses consisting of investment services that are offered to
    third-party clients. The businesses offered for sale exclude
    those investment services providing traditional fixed income and
    shorter duration asset and liability management for AIG s
    insurance company subsidiaries. AIG expects to continue
    relationships with the divested businesses for other investment
    management services used by those subsidiaries.

AIG Investments previously acquired alternative investments,
    primarily consisting of direct private equity and private equity
    fund investments, with the intention of  warehousing 
    such investments until the investment or economic benefit
    thereof could be transferred to a fund or other AIG-managed
    investment product. However, AIG Investments  intended
    launch of such new products and funds has been indefinitely
    postponed. As a result of this decision, AIG will retain these
    investments with a net asset value of $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2008 as proprietary investments until they can
    be divested. Unaffiliated investment commitments associated with
    these investments were approximately $720 million at
    December 31, 2008 and are expected to be funded over the
    next five years. AIG accounts for these investments based on the
    attributes of the investment using consolidation, equity or cost
    accounting methods, as appropriate.

Other
    Operations  

AIG s Other operations include interest expense,
    restructuring costs, expenses of corporate staff not
    attributable to specific business segments, expenses related to
    efforts to improve internal controls, corporate initiatives,
    certain compensation plan expenses and the settlement costs more
    fully described in Note 14(a) to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Certain AIG subsidiaries provide insurance-related services such
    as adjusting claims and marketing specialized products. Several
    wholly owned foreign subsidiaries of AIG operating in countries
    or jurisdictions such as Ireland, Bermuda, Barbados and
    Gibraltar provide insurance and related administrative and back
    office services to affiliated and unaffiliated insurance and
    reinsurance companies, including captive insurance companies
    unaffiliated with AIG.

For additional information regarding the business of AIG on a
    consolidated basis, the contributions made to AIG s
    consolidated revenues and operating income and the assets held
    by its General Insurance, Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services, Financial Services and Asset Management operations and
    Other operations, see Selected Financial Data, Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations and Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Locations
    of Certain Assets  

As of December 31, 2008, approximately 39 percent of
    the consolidated assets of AIG were located in foreign countries
    (other than Canada), including $7.7 billion of cash and
    securities on deposit with foreign regulatory authorities.
    Foreign operations and assets held abroad may be adversely
    affected by political developments in foreign countries,
    including tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory
    policy, as well as by consequence of hostilities and unrest. The
    risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon AIG vary
    from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. If
    expropriation or nationalization does occur, AIG s policy
    is to take all appropriate measures to seek recovery of such
    assets. Certain of the countries in which AIG s business is
    conducted have currency restrictions which generally cause a
    delay in a company s ability to repatriate assets and
    profits. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Foreign
    Operations and Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Regulation  

AIG s operations around the world are subject to regulation
    by many different types of regulatory authorities, including
    insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift
    regulators in the United States and abroad. AIG s
    operations have become more diverse and consumer-oriented,
    increasing the scope of regulatory supervision and the
    possibility of intervention. In light of AIG s liquidity
    problems in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, AIG and its
    regulated subsidiaries have been subject to intense review and
    supervision around the world. Regulators have taken significant
    steps to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate.
    These steps have included:

restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG;

16    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG;

requesting additional capital contributions by AIG;

requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by
    assets locally;

restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may engage;

requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the
    regulated subsidiaries and AIG or any with affiliates; and

requiring more frequent reporting, including with respect to
    capital and liquidity positions.

These and other actions have made it challenging for AIG to
    continue to engage in business in the ordinary course. AIG does
    not expect these conditions to change until its financial
    situation stabilizes.

In 1999, AIG became a unitary thrift holding company within the
    meaning of the Home Owners  Loan Act (HOLA) when the Office
    of Thrift Supervision (OTS) granted AIG approval to organize AIG
    Federal Savings Bank. AIG is subject to OTS regulation,
    examination, supervision and reporting requirements. In
    addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over AIG and its
    subsidiaries. Among other things, this permits the OTS to
    restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a
    serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of
    AIG s subsidiary savings association, AIG Federal Savings
    Bank.

Under prior law, a unitary savings and loan holding company,
    such as AIG, was not restricted as to the types of business in
    which it could engage, provided that its savings association
    subsidiary continued to be a qualified thrift lender. The
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) provides that no company
    may acquire control of an OTS regulated institution after
    May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial
    activities permitted for financial holding companies under the
    law or for multiple savings and loan holding companies. The
    GLBA, however, grandfathered the unrestricted authority for
    activities with respect to a unitary savings and loan holding
    company existing prior to May 4, 1999, so long as its
    savings association subsidiary continues to be a qualified
    thrift lender under the HOLA. As a unitary savings and loan
    holding company whose application was pending as of May 4,
    1999, AIG is grandfathered under the GLBA and generally is not
    restricted under existing laws as to the types of business
    activities in which it may engage, provided that AIG Federal
    Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender under the
    HOLA.

Certain states require registration and periodic reporting by
    insurance companies that are licensed in such states and are
    controlled by other corporations. Applicable legislation
    typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the
    corporation that controls the registered insurer and the other
    companies in the holding company system and prior approval of
    intercorporate services and transfers of assets (including in
    some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary)
    within the holding company system. AIG s subsidiaries are
    registered under such legislation in those states that have such
    requirements.

AIG s insurance subsidiaries, in common with other
    insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the
    states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business.
    Within the United States, the method of such regulation varies
    but generally has its source in statutes that delegate
    regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The
    regulation and supervision relate primarily to approval of
    policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be
    met and maintained, including risk-based capital, the licensing
    of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on
    investments, restrictions on the size of risks that may be
    insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the
    benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of
    reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance
    companies, the form and content of reports of financial
    condition required to be filed, and reserves for unearned
    premiums, losses and other purposes. In general, such regulation
    is for the protection of policyholders rather than the equity
    owners of these companies.

AIG has taken various steps to enhance the capital positions of
    the AIG Property Casualty Group companies. AIG entered into
    capital maintenance agreements with these companies that set
    forth procedures through which AIG will provide ongoing capital
    support. Also, in order to allow the AIG Property Casualty Group
    companies to record as an admitted asset at December 31,
    2008 certain reinsurance ceded to non-U.S. reinsurers
    (which has the effect of maintaining the level of the statutory
    surplus of such companies), AIG obtained and entered into
    reimbursement agreements for approximately $1.6 billion of
    letters of credit issued

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    17 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

by several commercial banks in favor of certain AIG Property
    Casualty Group companies and funded trusts totalling
    $2.9 billion. Finally, AIG has agreed to contribute capital
    to the AIG Property Casualty Group companies that hold shares of
    Transatlantic if, upon selling their Transatlantic shares they
    receive less than the shares  statutory book value. The
    amount of the capital contribution would equal the difference
    between the aggregate statutory book value of the shares they
    sold and the aggregate cash proceeds they received in respect to
    those shares.

In the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed to
    measure the adequacy of an insurer s statutory surplus in
    relation to the risks inherent in its business. Thus,
    inadequately capitalized general and life insurance companies
    may be identified. The U.S. RBC formula develops a
    risk-adjusted target level of statutory surplus by applying
    certain factors to various asset, premium and reserve items.
    Higher factors are applied to more risky items and lower factors
    are applied to less risky items. Thus, the target level of
    statutory surplus varies not only as a result of the
    insurer s size, but also based on the risk profile of the
    insurer s operations.

The RBC Model Law provides for four incremental levels of
    regulatory attention for insurers whose surplus is below the
    calculated RBC target. These levels of attention range in
    severity from requiring the insurer to submit a plan for
    corrective action to placing the insurer under regulatory
    control.

The statutory surplus of each of AIG s AIG Property
    Casualty Group and U.S.-based Life Insurance subsidiaries
    exceeded their RBC minimum required levels as of
    December 31, 2008.

To the extent that any of AIG s insurance entities would
    fall below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be
    AIG s intention to provide appropriate capital or other
    types of support to that entity.

A substantial portion of AIG s General Insurance business
    and a majority of its Life Insurance business is conducted in
    foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in
    foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the
    underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must
    satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by
    foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to
    modification or revocation by such authorities, and these
    subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in
    certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. A
    change in control of AIG, such as that resulting from the
    issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock (described in
    Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), or
    changes in the ownership of a regulated subsidiary that may
    result from a disposition of the subsidiary or the repayment of
    outstanding amounts under the Fed Facility with subsidiary
    preferred equity, may also trigger change of control
    requirements in jurisdictions around the world and result in
    other regulatory actions.

In addition to licensing requirements, AIG s foreign
    operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with
    respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising,
    amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of
    reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type
    of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to
    policyholders on participating policies. Some foreign countries
    regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries
    have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially
    owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers are
    obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may
    not always allow foreign insurers, including AIG subsidiaries,
    full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing
    constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may
    hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.

See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Capital
    Resources and Liquidity   Regulation and Supervision
    and Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition  

AIG s businesses operate in highly competitive
    environments, both domestically and overseas. Principal sources
    of competition are insurance companies, banks, investment banks
    and other non-bank financial institutions.

The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive.
    Within the United States, AIG s General Insurance
    subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,400 other stock
    companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual companies
    and other underwriting organizations. AIG s Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services subsidiaries compete
    in the United States with approximately 2,100 life insurance
    companies and other participants in related financial services
    fields. Overseas, AIG s subsidiaries compete for business
    with the foreign insurance operations of large
    U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local
    companies in particular areas in which they are active.

18    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

As a result of the reduction of the credit ratings of AIG and
    its subsidiaries, uncertainty relating to AIG s financial
    condition and AIG s asset disposition plan, AIG s
    businesses have faced and continue to face intense competition
    to retain existing customers and to maintain business with
    existing customers and counterparties at historical levels.
    Further, AIG has been and continues to be at a significant
    disadvantage in soliciting new customers. AIG expects these
    difficult conditions to continue for the foreseeable future.

Competition is also intense for key employees. The announced
    asset dispositions, decline in AIG s common stock price and
    uncertainty surrounding AIG s financial condition have
    adversely affected AIG s ability to retain key employees
    and to attract new employees. While AIG has granted retention
    awards and taken other steps to retain its key employees, no
    assurance can be given that these actions will be successful.

For a further discussion of the risks of AIG s disadvantage
    in soliciting new customers and losing key employees, see
    item 1A. Risk Factors   Employees.

Directors
    and Executive Officers of AIG  

All directors of AIG are elected for one-year terms at the
    annual meeting of shareholders. All executive officers are
    elected to one-year terms, but serve at the pleasure of the
    Board of Directors.

Except as hereinafter noted, each of the executive officers has,
    for more than five years, occupied an executive position with
    AIG or companies that are now its subsidiaries. There are no
    arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and
    any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was
    elected to such position. Prior to joining AIG in September
    2008, Mr. Liddy served at the private equity investment
    firm of Clayton, Dubilier   Rice, Inc. during 2008.
    From January 1999 until his retirement in April 2008,
    Mr. Liddy served as Chairman of the Board of The Allstate
    Corporation (Allstate), the parent of Allstate Insurance
    Company. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of Allstate
    from January 1999 to December 2006 and President from January
    1995 to May 2005. Ms. Reynolds was President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation from January 2006 to
    September 2008 and Chairman from May 2008 to September 2008.
    Previously, Ms. Reynolds served as President and Chief
    Executive Officer of AGL Resources, an Atlanta-based energy
    holding company, from 2000 to 2005 and Chairman from 2002 to
    2005. From January 2000 until joining AIG in May 2004,
    Dr. Frenkel served as Chairman of Merrill Lynch
    International, Inc. Prior to joining AIG in September 2006,
    Ms. Kelly served as Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel of MCI/WorldCom. Previously, she was Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Sears, Roebuck and Co. from
    1999 to 2003. From June 2004 until joining AIG in May 2007,
    Mr. Kaslow was a managing partner of QuanStar Group, LLC
    (an advisory services firm), and, from January 2002 until May
    2004, Mr. Kaslow was Senior Executive Vice President of
    Human Resources for Vivendi Universal (an entertainment and
    telecommunications company).

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    19 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Set forth below is information concerning the directors and
    executive officers of AIG as of February 18, 2009. 

20    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

AIG has been significantly and adversely affected by recent
    events in the marketplace as well as in its businesses, and is
    subject to significant risks, as discussed below. Many of these
    risks are interrelated and occur under similar business and
    economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may
    in turn cause the emergence, or exacerbate the effect, of
    others. Such a combination could materially increase the
    severity of the impact on AIG. As a result, should certain of
    these risks emerge, AIG may need additional support from the
    U.S. government. Without additional support from the
    U.S. government, in the future there could exist
    substantial doubt about AIG s ability to continue as a
    going concern. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Consideration of AIG s Ability to Continue as a Going
    Concern and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a further discussion.

Proposed
    Transactions with the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury    

No assurance can be given that the NY Fed and the
    United States Department of the Treasury will complete the
    proposed transactions with AIG.   AIG has entered
    into certain agreements in principle and announced intentions to
    enter into transactions with the NY Fed and the
    United States Department of the Treasury described below
    and in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
    These proposed transactions are designed to promote AIG s
    restructuring. Neither agreements in principle nor the
    intentions are legally binding, and neither the NY Fed nor the
    United States Department of the Treasury is bound to
    proceed with the transactions or complete them on the terms
    currently contemplated. AIG, however, expects to be able to
    complete these transactions and others necessary to enable an
    orderly restructuring and understands that the NY Fed and
    the United States Department of the Treasury remain committed to
    providing AIG with continued support. If AIG is unable to
    complete one or more of the proposed transactions, AIG s
    credit ratings may be downgraded and AIG may not be able to
    complete its restructuring plan. See Credit and Financial
    Strength Ratings for a discussion of the impact of a downgrade
    in AIG s credit ratings.

The proposed repayment of outstanding amounts under the Fed
    Facility with subsidiary preferred equity in holding companies
    for AIA and ALICO is complex and may need to be
    restructured.   The NY Fed s proposed
    investment in two new holding companies for AIA and ALICO is
    unprecedented and it is possible that the terms of the exchange
    may change, perhaps materially.

Business
    and Credit Environment    

AIG s businesses, results of operations and financial
    condition have been materially and adversely affected by market
    conditions and will be materially affected by these conditions
    for the foreseeable future.   During 2008,
    worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated and the
    United States economy and most other major economies entered
    into a recession. It is difficult to predict how long global
    recessionary conditions will exist or the manner in which
    AIG s markets, products, financial condition and businesses
    will be negatively affected in the future.

The global financial crisis has resulted in a lack of liquidity,
    highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset values
    across all classes, an erosion of investor confidence, a
    widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency in many
    markets and the collapse or merger of several prominent
    financial institutions. Difficult economic conditions also
    resulted in increased unemployment and a severe decline in
    business activity across a wide range of industries and regions.
    Global regulators, governments and central banks have taken a
    number of unprecedented steps to address these issues but these
    steps have so far failed to prevent financial markets from
    declining by a very substantial amount, both in percentage terms
    and in absolute terms. It is unclear whether these measures will
    be effective or, if effective, when markets will stabilize.

AIG has been materially and adversely affected by these
    conditions and events in a number of ways, including:

the need to enter into transactions with the NY Fed and the
    United States Department of the Treasury, and to
    participate in generally available governmental programs
    addressing disruptions in financial markets;

severe and continued declines in the valuation and performance
    of its investment portfolio across all asset classes, leading to
    decreased investment income, material unrealized and realized
    losses, including other-

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    21 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

than-temporary impairments, both of which decreased AIG s
    shareholders  equity and, to a lesser extent, the
    regulatory capital of its subsidiaries;

significant credit losses due to the failure of, or governmental
    intervention with respect to, several prominent institutions;

impairment of goodwill in its insurance and financial services
    businesses; and

a general decline in business activity leading to reduced
    premium volume, increases in surrenders or cancellations of
    policies and increased competition from other insurers.

The consequences of these conditions have been more severe for
    AIG than for other insurers. Since the third quarter of 2008,
    AIG s principal sources of liquidity have been the Fed
    Facility and issuances of commercial paper under the Commercial
    Paper Funding Facility established by the NY Fed (CPFF).
    Authorization for the CPFF to accept new issuances of commercial
    paper is set to expire on October 30, 2009, with all
    outstanding issuances under the program maturing by January
    2010. Since mid-September 2008, AIG has had no access to funding
    in public markets.

Certain of AIG s in-force and new business products in its
    life insurance businesses provide minimum benefit guarantees and
    crediting rates. Low interest rates driven by recessionary or
    deflationary environments could result in a negative spread
    between the yield produced by AIG s investment portfolios
    and the underlying costs of these products. While potentially
    providing short-term benefits, long-term profitability of the
    business could be negatively affected by this negative spread
    and the volume and value of new business could be adversely
    affected by low interest rate environments.

Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings    

Adverse ratings actions regarding AIG s long-term debt
    ratings by the major rating agencies would require AIG to post a
    substantial amount of additional collateral payments pursuant
    to,  and/or 
    permit the termination of, derivative transactions to which
    AIGFP is a party, which could further adversely affect
    AIG s business and its consolidated results of operations,
    financial condition and liquidity. Additional obligations to
    post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or
    obtaining alternative credit could exceed the amounts then
    available under the Fed Facility.   In the third
    quarter of 2008, S P, Moody s, Fitch and
    A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best) each downgraded the
    credit ratings of AIG Inc. and most of the Insurer Financial
    Strength Ratings of AIG s insurance operating subsidiaries.
    In particular, S P downgraded AIG s long-term debt
    rating by three notches, Moody s downgraded AIG s
    long-term debt rating by two notches, Fitch downgraded
    AIG s long-term debt rating by two notches and A.M. Best
    downgraded AIG s issuer credit rating from a+ to bbb and
    most of AIG s Insurer Financial Strength Ratings from A+ to
    A.

Subsequent to the rating actions referred to above, the
    following rating actions were taken:

Moody s lowered AIG s Senior Unsecured Debt rating to
    A3 from A2 and ILFC s and American General Finance
    Corporation s (AGF Corp.) Senior Unsecured Debt ratings to
    Baa1 from A3. Most ratings remain under review for possible
    downgrade with ILFC revised to under review with direction
    uncertain.

S P revised the CreditWatch status on AIG s and AGF
    Corp. s ratings from CreditWatch Developing to CreditWatch
    Negative in October 2008. Subsequently, S P lowered its
    long-term debt rating on ILFC from A  to BBB+, and its
    short-term debt rating from A 1 to A 2. The ratings
    remain on Credit Watch Developing. S P lowered its
    long-term debt rating on AGF Corp. from BBB to BB+, and its
    short-term debt rating from A 3 to B. The long-term debt
    ratings were assigned a Negative Outlook. S P also revised
    the credit watch status of AIG s property and casualty
    subsidiaries from Credit Watch Developing to Credit Watch
    Negative.

Fitch lowered its long-term debt ratings on AGF Corp. from A to
    BBB. The ratings remain on Rating Watch Evolving. Fitch also
    removed the ratings of AIG, Inc. and its property and casualty
    subsidiaries from Rating Watch Evolving and assigned them a
    Stable Outlook.

22    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

A.M. Best affirmed the Insurer Financial Strength Ratings and
    Issuer Credit Ratings of the insurance subsidiaries of AIG, Inc.
    In addition A.M. Best affirmed the Issuer Credit Rating of AIG,
    Inc. These ratings were removed from Under Review with Negative
    Implications and assigned a Negative Outlook.

Credit ratings estimate a company s ability to meet its
    obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability to
    that company of unsecured financing and its eligibility for
    certain government sponsored funding programs such as the CPFF,
    as discussed below. In the event of a further downgrade of
    AIG s long-term senior debt ratings, AIGFP would be
    required to post additional collateral and AIG or certain of
    AIGFP s counterparties would be permitted to elect early
    termination of contracts.

It is estimated that as of the close of business on
    February 18, 2009, based on AIGFP s outstanding
    municipal GIAs, secured funding arrangements and financial
    derivative transactions (including AIGFP s super senior
    credit default swap portfolio) at that date, a one-notch
    downgrade of AIG s long-term senior debt ratings to Baa1 by
    Moody s and BBB+ by S P would permit counterparties to
    make additional collateral calls and permit either AIGFP or the
    counterparties to elect early termination of contracts,
    resulting in up to approximately $8 billion of
    corresponding collateral postings and termination payments, a
    two-notch downgrade to Baa2 by Moody s and BBB by S P
    would result in approximately $2 billion in additional
    collateral postings and termination payments, and a three-notch
    downgrade to Baa3 by Moody s and BBB- by S P would
    result in approximately $1 billion in additional collateral
    and termination payments.

The actual amount of collateral that AIGFP would be required to
    post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the
    aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make,
    would depend on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding
    affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time
    of the downgrade. If AIG is unable to secure sufficient
    additional funding through the Fed Facility or otherwise, AIG
    could become insolvent.

ILFC is a party to two Export Credit Agency (ECA) facilities
    that require ILFC to segregate security deposits and maintenance
    reserves related to aircraft financed under these facilities
    into separate accounts in the event of a downgrade in
    ILFC s credit ratings. In October 2008, Moody s
    downgraded ILFC s debt ratings, and ILFC was subsequently
    notified by the trustees under its ECA facilities that it would
    be required to segregate security deposits and maintenance
    reserves totaling approximately $260 million in separate
    accounts. Further downgrades would impose additional
    restrictions under these facilities, including the requirement
    to segregate rental payments and would require prior consent to
    withdraw funds from the segregated account.

For a further discussion of AIG s liquidity, see
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations   Capital Resources and
    Liquidity   Liquidity.

A downgrade in the short-term credit ratings of the
    commercial paper programs of certain AIG affiliates could make
    these issuers ineligible for participation in the
    CPFF.   AIG Funding and affiliates Curzon Funding
    LLC and Nightingale Finance LLC currently obtain financing
    through participation in the CPFF. As of February 18, 2009,
    AIG Funding, Curzon Funding LLC and Nightingale Finance LLC had
    $6.1 billion, $6.8 billion and $1.1 billion,
    respectively, outstanding under the CPFF. However, in the event
    of a downgrade of the short-term credit ratings applicable to
    the commercial paper programs of these issuers, they may no
    longer qualify for participation in the CPFF and would likely
    have significant difficulty obtaining access to alternative
    sources of liquidity. AIG s subsidiary, ILFC, participated
    in the CPFF at December 31, 2008, but on January 21,
    2009, S P downgraded ILFC s short-term debt rating
    and, as a result, ILFC lost access to the CPFF. The CPFF
    purchases only U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper
    (including asset-backed commercial paper) that is rated at least
     A-1/P-1/F1 
    by a major nationally recognized statistical rating organization
    (NRSRO) or, if rated by multiple major NRSROs, is rated at least
     A-1/P-1/F1 
    by two or more major NRSROs. Accordingly, these AIG entities
    will lose access to the CPFF if:

AIG Funding s short-term rating is downgraded by any two of
    S P, Moody s or Fitch;

Curzon Funding LLC s short-term rating is downgraded by
    either S P or Moody  or

Nightingale Finance LLC s short-term rating is downgraded
    by either S P or Moody s.

Adverse rating actions could result in further reductions in
    credit limits extended to AIG and in a decline in the number of
    counterparties willing to transact with AIG or its
    affiliates.   To appropriately manage risk, AIG
    needs trading counterparties willing to extend sufficient credit
    limits to purchase and sell securities, commodities and

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    23 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

other assets, as well as to conduct hedging activities. To the
    extent that counterparties are unwilling to trade with or to
    extend adequate credit limits to AIG or its subsidiaries, AIG
    could be exposed to open positions or other unhedged risks,
    resulting in increased volatility of results and increased
    losses.

A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of
    AIG s insurance companies could prevent the companies from
    writing new business and retaining customers and
    business.   Insurer Financial Strength ratings are
    an important factor in establishing the competitive position of
    insurance companies. Insurer Financial Strength ratings measure
    an insurance company s ability to meet its obligations to
    contract holders and policyholders, help maintain public
    confidence in a company s products, facilitate marketing of
    products and enhance a company s competitive position.

Further downgrades of the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of
    AIG s insurance companies may prevent these companies from
    offering products and services or result in increased policy
    cancellations or termination of assumed reinsurance contracts.
    Moreover, a downgrade in AIG s credit ratings may, under
    credit rating agency policies concerning the relationship
    between parent and subsidiary ratings, result in a downgrade of
    the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of AIG s insurance
    subsidiaries.

Liquidity    

AIG parent s ability to access funds from its
    subsidiaries is severely limited.   As a holding
    company, AIG parent depends significantly on dividends,
    distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund
    payments due on AIG s obligations, including its debt
    securities. Further, the majority of AIG s investments are
    held by its regulated subsidiaries. In light of AIG s
    current financial situation, many of AIG s regulated
    subsidiaries have been significantly restricted from making
    dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG, and AIG expects
    these restrictions to continue. AIG s subsidiaries also are
    limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance
    funds to AIG because of the need to retain funds to conduct
    their own operations. These factors may hinder AIG s
    ability to access funds that AIG may need to make payments on
    its obligations, including those arising from day-to-day
    business activities.

AIG parent s ability to support its subsidiaries is
    limited.   Historically, AIG has provided capital
    and liquidity to its subsidiaries to maintain regulatory capital
    ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet
    unexpected cash flow obligations. AIG s current limited
    access to liquidity may reduce or prevent AIG from providing
    support to its subsidiaries. If AIG is unable to provide support
    to a subsidiary having an immediate capital need, the subsidiary
    could become insolvent or, in the case of an insurance
    subsidiary or other regulated entity, could be seized by its
    regulator.

A significant portion of AIG s investments are illiquid
    and are difficult to sell, or to sell in significant amounts at
    acceptable prices, to generate cash to meet AIG s
    needs.   AIG s investments in certain
    securities, including certain fixed income securities and
    certain structured securities, direct private equities, limited
    partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans, flight equipment,
    finance receivables and real estate are illiquid. These asset
    classes represented approximately 31 percent of the
    carrying value of AIG s total cash and invested assets at
    December 31, 2008. In addition, the steep decline in the
    U.S. real estate market and the current disruption in the
    credit markets have materially adversely affected the liquidity
    of other AIG securities portfolios, including its residential
    and commercial mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If AIG
    requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess
    of anticipated cash requirements or is required to post or
    return collateral in connection with AIGFP s derivative
    transactions, then AIG may have difficulty selling these
    investments or terminating these transactions in a timely manner
    or may be forced to sell or terminate them at unfavorable values.

If AIG fails to maintain compliance with the continued
    listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the
    NYSE may initiate suspension and de-listing procedures, which
    will have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of
    AIG s common stock.   AIG s common stock
    and other securities are listed on the NYSE. AIG is subject to
    the NYSE s continued listing requirements, including, among
    other things, the requirement that AIG maintain an average
    closing price equal to at least $1.00 over each consecutive
     30-day 
    trading period. The share price of AIG s common stock has
    declined significantly since the third quarter of 2008, and
    recently has begun to close below $1.00. AIG has not been
    informed of any non-compliance by the NYSE, but there is no
    assurance that AIG will be able to maintain compliance with the
    NYSE s continued listing standards or that, in the event of
    non-compliance, the NYSE will not take action to suspend and
    de-list AIG s securities from trading. A de-listing would

24    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

have a significant adverse effect on the liquidity of AIG s
    common stock, making it more difficult and expensive for AIG to
    raise additional capital.

Fed
    Facility and Series D Preferred Stock    

The Fed Credit Agreement and the Series D Preferred
    Stock require AIG to devote significant resources to debt
    repayment and preferred stock dividends for the foreseeable
    future, thereby significantly reducing capital available for
    other purposes.   AIG is required to repay the
    five-year Fed Facility primarily from the proceeds of sales of
    assets, including businesses. The amount available under the Fed
    Facility is permanently reduced by the amount of such repayments
    as they are made. In addition, the $40 billion liquidation
    preference of the Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock (Series D Preferred Stock) issued to the
    United States Department of the Treasury accumulates
    dividends at 10 percent per year. These dividends, and the
    dividends on any other series of preferred stock issued by AIG,
    are not deductible for tax purposes.

AIG s significant obligations require it to dedicate all of
    its proceeds from asset dispositions and a considerable portion
    of its cash flows from operations to the repayment of the Fed
    Facility, thereby reducing the funds available for investment in
    its businesses. Moreover, because AIG s debt service and
    preferred stock dividend obligations are very high, AIG may be
    more vulnerable to competitive pressures and have less
    flexibility to plan for or respond to changing business and
    economic conditions.

A further inability to effect asset sales in accordance with its
    asset disposition plan or to do so at acceptable prices could
    result in AIG not being able to repay its borrowings under the
    Fed Facility. See Capital Resources and Liquidity
    Requirements   Asset Disposition Plan for a discussion
    of AIG s asset disposition plan.

Borrowings available to AIG under the Fed Facility may not be
    sufficient to meet AIG s funding needs and additional
    financing may not be available or could be prohibitively
    expensive.   Additional collateral calls, continued
    high surrenders of annuity and other policies, further
    downgrades in AIG s credit ratings or a further
    deterioration in AIGFP s remaining super senior credit
    default swap portfolio could cause AIG to require additional
    funding in excess of the borrowings available under the Fed
    Facility. In that event, AIG would be required to find
    additional financing and new financing sources. In the current
    business environment such financing could be difficult, if not
    impossible, to obtain and, if available, very expensive, and
    additional funding from the NY Fed, United States Department of
    the Treasury or other government sources may not be available.
    If AIG is unable to obtain sufficient financing to meet its
    capital needs, AIG could become insolvent.

Borrowings under the Fed Facility are subject to the NY Fed
    being satisfied with the collateral pledged by
    AIG.   A condition to borrowing under the Fed
    Facility is that the NY Fed be satisfied with the collateral
    pledged by AIG (including its value). It is possible that the NY
    Fed may determine that AIG s collateral is insufficient to
    permit a borrowing for many reasons including:

a decline in the value of AIG s businesses;

poor performance in one or more of AIG s
    businesses; and

low prices received by AIG in its asset disposition plan.

Such a determination could limit AIG s ability to borrow
    under the Fed Facility.

AIG must sell or otherwise dispose of significant assets to
    service the debt under the Fed Facility.   AIG must
    make asset dispositions to repay the borrowings under the Fed
    Facility. A continued delay or inability to effect these
    dispositions at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms could
    result in AIG being unable to repay the Fed Facility by its
    maturity date.

While AIG has adopted an asset disposition plan, as discussed in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations   Liquidity  
    Asset Disposition Plan, this plan may not be successfully
    executed due to, among other things:

an inability of purchasers to obtain funding due to the
    deterioration in the credit markets;

a general unwillingness of potential buyers to commit capital in
    the difficult current market environment;

an adverse change in interest rates and borrowing costs; and

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    25 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

continued declines in AIG asset values and deterioration in its
    businesses.

Further, AIG may be unable to negotiate favorable terms in
    connection with asset sales, including with respect to price. As
    a result, AIG may need to modify its asset disposition plan to
    sell additional or different assets.

If AIG is not able to repay the Fed Facility from the proceeds
    of asset dispositions and cannot otherwise repay the Fed
    Facility in accordance with its terms, an event of default would
    result. In such an event, the NY Fed could enforce its security
    interest in AIG s pledged collateral. In addition, an event
    of default or declaration of acceleration under the Fed Credit
    Agreement could also result in an event of default under other
    agreements. In such an event, AIG would likely not have
    sufficient liquid assets to meet its obligations under such
    agreements.

The Fed Credit Agreement includes financial and other
    covenants that impose restrictions on AIG s financial and
    business operations.   The Fed Credit Agreement
    requires AIG to maintain a minimum aggregate liquidity level and
    restricts AIG s ability to make certain capital
    expenditures. The Fed Credit Agreement also restricts AIG s
    and its restricted subsidiaries  ability to incur
    additional indebtedness, incur liens, merge, consolidate, sell
    assets, enter into hedging transactions outside the normal
    course of business, or pay dividends. These covenants could
    restrict AIG s business and thereby adversely affect
    AIG s results of operations.

Moreover, if AIG fails to comply with the covenants in the Fed
    Credit Agreement and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment,
    an event of default would result. If an event of default were to
    occur, the NY Fed could, among other things, declare outstanding
    borrowings under the Fed Credit Agreement immediately due and
    payable and enforce its security interest in AIG s pledged
    collateral. In addition, an event of default or declaration of
    acceleration under the Fed Credit Agreement could also result in
    an event of default under AIG s other agreements.

AIG s results of operations and cash flows will be
    materially and adversely affected by a significant increase in
    interest expense and preferred stock dividends
    paid.   AIG expects its results of operations in
    2009 and in future periods to be significantly adversely
    affected by the recognition of interest expense on borrowings
    under the Fed Facility and by the payment of significant
    preferred stock dividends. In addition, the prepaid commitment
    fee asset of $23 billion associated with the Series C
    Preferred Stock (described below) was capitalized and is being
    amortized through interest expense over the term of the Fed
    Facility, which is five years.

The Series D Preferred Stock accrues dividends, payable if,
    as and when declared, at a rate of 10 percent per annum, or
    $4 billion, on the $40 billion of liquidation
    preference, which are not tax deductible.

Controlling
    Shareholder    

Following the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock
    to the AIG Credit Facility Trust, a trust for the sole benefit
    of the United States Treasury, the Trust, which is overseen by
    three independent trustees, will hold a controlling interest in
    AIG. AIG s interests and those of AIG s minority
    shareholders may not be the same as those of the Trust or the
    United States Treasury.   In accordance with the
    Fed Credit Agreement, in early March 2009, AIG expects to issue
    100,000 shares of Series C Perpetual, Convertible,
    Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share and at
    an initial liquidation preference of $5.00 per share (the
    Series C Preferred Stock), to the AIG Credit Facility
    Trust, a trust for the sole benefit of the United States
    Treasury (together with its trustees, the Trust) established
    under the AIG Credit Facility Trust Agreement dated as of
    January 16, 2009 (as it may be amended from time to time,
    the Trust Agreement). The Trust will hold the Series C
    Preferred Stock for the sole benefit of the United States
    Treasury. The Series C Preferred Stock is entitled to:

participate in any dividends paid on the common stock, with the
    payments attributable to the Series C Preferred Stock being
    approximately 77.9 percent of the aggregate dividends paid
    on common stock, treating the Series C Preferred Stock as
    converted; and

to the extent permitted by law, vote with AIG s common
    stock on all matters submitted to AIG s shareholders and
    hold approximately 77.9 percent of the aggregate voting
    power of common stock, treating the Series C Preferred
    Stock as converted.

The dividends payable on and the total voting power of
    (i) the shares of common stock underlying the Series C
    Preferred Stock, (ii) the 53,798,766 shares of common
    stock underlying the warrants issued to the United States
    Department of the Treasury on November 25, 2008 and
    (iii) the shares of common stock underlying the warrants to
    be issued to the United States Department of the Treasury in
    connection with the capital commitment facility will

26    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

not exceed 79.9 percent of the aggregate dividends payable on
    and the voting power of the outstanding shares of common stock,
    treating the Series C Preferred Stock as converted.

The Series C Preferred Stock will remain outstanding even
    if the Fed Facility is repaid in full or otherwise terminates.
    In addition, upon shareholder approval and the filing with the
    Delaware Secretary of State of certain amendments to AIG s
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Trust can convert at
    its option all or a portion of the Series C Preferred Stock
    into common stock.

As a result of its ownership of the Series C Preferred
    Stock, the Trust will be able, subject to the terms of the Trust
    Agreement and the Series C Preferred Stock, to elect all of
    AIG s directors and will be able, to the extent permitted
    by law, to control the vote on substantially all matters,
    including:

approval of mergers or other business combinations;

a sale of all or substantially all of AIG s assets;

issuance of any additional common stock or other equity
    securities;

the selection and tenure of AIG s Chief Executive Officer
    and other executive officers; and

other matters that might be favorable to the United States
    Treasury.

Moreover, the Trust s ability to prevent any change in
    control of AIG could also have an adverse effect on the market
    price of the common stock.

The Trust may also, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement
    and applicable securities laws, transfer all, or a portion of,
    the Series C Preferred Stock to another person or entity
    and, in the event of such a transfer, that person or entity
    could become the controlling shareholder.

Possible future sales of Series C Preferred Stock or
    common stock by the Trust could adversely affect the market for
    AIG common stock.   Pursuant to the Series C
    Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 1,
    2009, between the Trust and AIG (the Series C Preferred
    Stock Purchase Agreement), AIG has agreed to file a shelf
    registration statement that will allow the Trust to publicly
    sell Series C Preferred Stock or any shares of common stock
    it receives upon conversion of the Series C Preferred
    Stock. In addition, the Trust could sell Series C Preferred
    Stock or shares of common stock without registration under
    certain circumstances, such as in a private transaction.
    Although AIG can make no prediction as to the effect, if any,
    that such sales would have on the market price of common stock,
    sales of substantial amounts of Series C Preferred Stock or
    common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur,
    could adversely affect the market price of common stock. If the
    Trust sells or transfers shares of Series C Preferred Stock
    or common stock as a block, another person or entity could
    become AIG s controlling shareholder.

Change
    of Control    

The issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock may have
    adverse consequences for AIG and its subsidiaries with
    regulators and contract counterparties.   The
    issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock will result in a
    change of control of AIG. A change of control of AIG triggers
    notice, approval and/or other regulatory requirements in many of
    the more than 130 countries and jurisdictions in which AIG and
    its subsidiaries operate. AIG has undertaken a worldwide review
    of the regulatory requirements arising in connection with the
    issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, and has worked to
    achieve material compliance with applicable regulatory
    requirements. In this connection, AIG has submitted notices to
    regulators in the jurisdictions where its principal businesses
    are located, and currently has no knowledge that any regulator
    intends to impose any penalties or take any other actions as a
    result of the change in control of AIG in a manner that would be
    adverse in any material respect to AIG. However, in light of the
    large number of jurisdictions in which AIG and its subsidiaries
    operate and the complexity of assessing and addressing the
    regulatory requirements in each of the relevant jurisdictions,
    AIG has not been able to obtain all regulatory consents or
    approvals that may be required in connection with the issuance
    of the Series C Preferred Stock. Accordingly, no assurances
    can be provided that the failure to obtain all required consents
    or approvals will not have a material adverse effect on
    AIG s consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

AIG and its subsidiaries are also parties to various contracts
    and other agreements that may be affected by a change of control
    of AIG. Although AIG believes the change of control arising from
    the issuance of the Series C

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    27 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Preferred Stock will not result in a breach of any material
    contract or agreement, no assurances can be given that
    AIG s counterparties to such contracts and agreements will
    not claim that breaches have occurred. If AIG were to be found
    to have breached any material contract or agreement, its
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows could be materially adversely affected.

Concentration
    of Investments and Exposures    

Concentration of AIG s investment portfolios in any
    particular segment of the economy may have adverse
    effects.   AIG results of operations have been
    adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by
    a concentration in residential mortgage-backed, commercial
    mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. AIG also has
    significant exposures to financial institutions and, in
    particular, to money center and global banks. These types of
    concentrations in AIG s investment portfolios could have an
    adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on
    AIG s consolidated results of operations or financial
    condition. While AIG seeks to mitigate this risk by having a
    broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have
    a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group
    of related industries or geographic region may have a greater
    adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that
    the portfolios are concentrated. Furthermore, AIG s ability
    to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related
    assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking
    to sell at the same time.

Concentration of AIG s insurance and other risk
    exposures may have adverse effects.   AIG seeks to
    manage the risks to which it is exposed as a result of the
    insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that it
    undertakes to customers and counterparties by monitoring the
    diversification of its exposures by exposure type, industry,
    geographic region, counterparty and otherwise and by using
    reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset
    exposures that exceed the limits it wishes to retain. In certain
    circumstances, or with respect to certain exposures, such risk
    management arrangements may not be available on acceptable
    terms, or AIG s exposure in absolute terms may be so large
    that even slightly adverse experience compared to AIG s
    expectations may cause a material adverse effect on AIG s
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Casualty
    Insurance Underwriting and Reserves    

Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and
    may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss
    expenses.   AIG has announced that it intends to
    focus its resources on its core property and casualty insurance
    businesses while selling other businesses to repay the borrowing
    under the Fed Credit Agreement. As a result, AIG expects to
    become more reliant on these businesses.

Although AIG annually reviews the adequacy of the established
    liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there
    can be no assurance that AIG s loss reserves will not
    develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on
    AIG s results of operations. Estimation of ultimate net
    losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process for
    long-tail casualty lines of business, which include excess and
    umbrella liability, D O, professional liability, medical
    malpractice, workers  compensation, general liability,
    products liability and related classes, as well as for asbestos
    and environmental exposures. Generally, actual historical loss
    development factors are used to project future loss development.
    However, there can be no assurance that future loss development
    patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any
    deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors
    might not be discernible for an extended period of time
    subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve
    estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential
    for reserves with respect to a number of years to be
    significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss
    development factors that were relied upon in setting the
    reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development
    factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the
    judicial environment, or in other social or economic phenomena
    affecting claims, such as the effects that the recent disruption
    in the credit markets could have on reported claims under
    D O or professional liability coverages. For a further
    discussion of AIG s loss reserves see also
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations   Segment
    Results   General Insurance Operations  
    Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense.

28    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Catastrophe
    Exposures    

The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect
    AIG s consolidated financial condition or results of
    operations.   The occurrence of events such as
    hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and
    other catastrophes could adversely affect AIG s
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations,
    including by exposing AIG s businesses to the following:

widespread claim costs associated with property, workers 
    compensation, mortality and morbidity claims;

loss resulting from the value of invested assets declining to
    below the amount required to meet policy and contract
    liabilities; and

loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely
    in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing
    related to mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses.

Reinsurance    

Reinsurance may not be available or
    affordable.   AIG subsidiaries are major purchasers
    of reinsurance and utilize reinsurance as part of AIG s
    overall risk management strategy. Reinsurance is an important
    risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line
    risk retention and to mitigate losses that may arise from
    catastrophes. Market conditions beyond AIG s control
    determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance purchased
    by AIG subsidiaries. For example, reinsurance may be more
    difficult to obtain after a year with a large number of major
    catastrophes. Accordingly, AIG may be forced to incur additional
    expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient
    reinsurance on acceptable terms, in which case AIG would have to
    accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of
    business written by its subsidiaries or seek alternatives.

Reinsurance subjects AIG to the credit risk of its reinsurers
    and may not be adequate to protect AIG against
    losses.   Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer
    liable to the AIG subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded, it
    does not relieve the AIG subsidiary of the primary liability to
    its policyholders. Accordingly, AIG bears credit risk with
    respect to its subsidiaries  reinsurers to the extent not
    mitigated by collateral or other credit enhancements. A
    reinsurer s insolvency or inability or refusal to make
    timely payments under the terms of its agreements with the AIG
    subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on AIG s
    results of operations and liquidity. For additional information
    on AIG s reinsurance, see Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Risk Management   Reinsurance.

Policyholder
    Behavior    

AIG s policyholders, agents and other distributors of
    AIG s insurance products have expressed significant
    concerns in the wake of announcements by AIG of adverse
    financial results. AIG expects that these concerns will be
    exacerbated by the announcement of AIG s 2008
    results.   Many of AIG s businesses depend
    upon the financial stability (both actual and perceived) of
    AIG s parent company. Concerns that AIG or its subsidiaries
    may not be able to meet their obligations have negatively
    affected AIG s businesses in many ways, including:

requests by customers to withdraw funds from AIG under annuity
    and certain life insurance contracts;

a refusal by independent agents, brokers and banks to continue
    to offer AIG products and services;

a refusal of counterparties, customers or vendors to continue to
    do business with AIG; and

requests by customers and other parties to terminate existing
    contractual relationships.

Continued economic uncertainty, additional adverse results or a
    lack of confidence in AIG and AIG s businesses may cause
    AIG customers, agents and other distributors to cease or reduce
    their dealings with AIG, turn to competitors or shift to
    products that generate less income for AIG. Although AIG has
    announced its intent to refocus its business and certain AIG
    subsidiaries are rebranding themselves in an attempt to overcome
    a perception of instability, AIG cannot be sure that such
    efforts will be successful in attracting or maintaining clients.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    29 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Foreign
    Operations    

Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its
    operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.   AIG provides insurance, investment and
    other financial products and services to both businesses and
    individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. A
    substantial portion of AIG s General Insurance business and
    a majority of its Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    business is conducted outside the United States. Operations
    outside the United States, particularly those in developing
    nations, may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval,
    nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which
    could also affect other AIG operations.

The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign
    jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as its
    subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local
    regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities
    to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation.
    Thus, AIG s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
    conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where
    they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country
    could adversely affect AIG s results of operations,
    liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of
    the event and AIG s net financial exposure at that time in
    that country.

Employees    

Because of the decline in the value of equity awards
    previously granted to employees and the uncertainty surrounding
    AIG s asset disposition program, AIG may be unable to
    retain key employees, including individuals critical to the
    execution of its disposition plan.   AIG relies
    upon the knowledge and talent of its employees to successfully
    conduct business. The decline in AIG s common stock price
    has dramatically reduced the value of equity awards previously
    granted to its key employees. Also, the announcement of proposed
    asset dispositions has resulted in competitors seeking to hire
    AIG s key employees. AIG has implemented retention programs
    to seek to keep its key employees, but there can be no assurance
    that the programs will be effective. A loss of key employees
    could reduce the value of AIG s businesses and impair its
    ability to effect a successful asset disposition plan.

A loss of key employees in AIG s financial reporting
    process could prevent AIG from making required filings,
    preparing financial statements and otherwise adversely affect
    its internal controls.   AIG relies upon the
    knowledge and experience of the employees involved in these
    functions for the effective and timely preparation of required
    filings and financial statements and operation of internal
    controls. If these employees depart, AIG may not be able to
    replace them with individuals having comparable knowledge and
    experience.

The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 may
    adversely affect AIG s ability to retain its highest
    performing employees.   On February 17, 2009,
    the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery
    Act) was signed into law. The Recovery Act contains restrictions
    on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five
    executives named in a company s proxy statement and the
    next twenty highest paid employees of companies receiving TARP
    funds. Historically, AIG has embraced a pay-for-performance
    philosophy. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive
    compensation by the final regulations issued under the Recovery
    Act, it is possible that AIG may be unable to create a
    compensation structure that permits AIG to retain its highest
    performing employees. If this were to occur, AIG s asset
    disposition plan, businesses and results of operations would be
    adversely affected, perhaps materially.

Conflicts of interest may arise as AIG implements its asset
    disposition plan.   AIG relies on certain key
    employees to operate its businesses during the asset disposition
    period, to provide information to prospective buyers and to
    maximize the value of businesses to be divested. The successful
    completion of the asset disposition plan could be adversely
    affected by any conflict of interests between AIG and its
    employees arising as a result of the asset disposition process.

Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and
    prevent and may result in significant
    losses.   Losses may result from, among other
    things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly
    or to obtain proper internal authorization or failure to comply
    with regulatory requirements, both generally, and during the
    asset disposition process. There have been a number of highly
    publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by
    employees in the financial services industry in recent years,
    and AIG runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It
    is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct
    and the controls that AIG has in place to prevent and detect
    this activity may not be effective in all cases.

30    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Regulation    

AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions
    in which it conducts its businesses, and recent regulatory
    actions have made it challenging for AIG to continue to engage
    in business in the ordinary course.   AIG s
    operations around the world are subject to regulation by
    different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance,
    securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators
    in the United States and abroad. AIG s operations have
    become more diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope
    of regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention.
    In light of AIG s liquidity issues beginning in the third
    quarter of 2008, AIG and its regulated subsidiaries have been
    subject to intense review and supervision around the world.
    Regulators have taken significant steps to protect the
    businesses of the entities they regulate. These steps have
    included:

Restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG;

Restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG;

Requesting additional capital contributions by AIG;

Requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by
    assets locally;

Restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may
    engage; and

Requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the
    regulated subsidiaries and AIG or any affiliate.

AIG does not expect these conditions to change unless its
    financial situation stabilizes.

Adjustments
    to Life Insurance   Retirement Services Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs    

Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders and other
    events may require AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the
    amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) which
    could adversely affect AIG s consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.   DAC
    represents the costs that vary with and are related primarily to
    the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity
    contracts. When interest rates rise or customers lose confidence
    in a company, policy loans and policy surrenders and withdrawals
    of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as
    policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns
    or more stability, requiring AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the
    amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds
    surrender or other charges earned upon surrender and withdrawals
    of certain life insurance policies and annuity contracts,
    AIG s results of operations could be negatively affected.

DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented
    products, as well as retirement services products is reviewed
    for recoverability, which involves estimating the future
    profitability of current business. This review involves
    significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of
    future profitability were to be substantially lower than
    estimated, AIG could be required to accelerate its DAC
    amortization and such acceleration could adversely affect
    AIG s results of operations. For a further discussion of
    DAC, see also Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 1 and 8 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Risk
    Management    

AIG is exposed to a number of significant risks, and
    AIG s risk management policies, processes and controls may
    not be effective in mitigating AIG s risk exposures in all
    market conditions and to all types of risk.   The
    major risks to which AIG is exposed include credit risk, market
    risk, including credit spread risk, operational risk, liquidity
    risk and insurance risk. Given continued capital markets
    volatility, persistent risk aversion, inadequate liquidity in
    the markets of many asset classes, combined with AIG s
    weakened financial condition, AIG may not have adequate risk
    management policies, tools and processes and AIG may not have
    sufficient access to the markets and trading counterparties to
    effectively implement risk mitigating strategies and techniques.
    This environment could materially and adversely affect
    AIG s consolidated results of operations, liquidity or
    financial condition, result in regulatory action or litigation
    or further damage AIG s reputation. For a further
    discussion of AIG s risk management process and controls,
    see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Risk Management.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    31 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Operational risks of asset dispositions.   AIG
    is exposed to various operational risks associated with the
    dispositions of subsidiaries and the resulting restructuring of
    AIG at the business and corporate levels. These risks include
    the ability to deconsolidate systems and processes of divested
    operations without adversely affecting AIG, the ability of AIG
    to fulfill its obligations under any transition separation
    agreements agreed upon with buyers, the ability of AIG to
    downsize the corporation as dispositions are accomplished and
    the ability of AIG to continue to provide services previously
    performed by divested entities.

AIGFP wind-down risks.   An orderly and
    successful wind-down of AIGFP s businesses and portfolios
    is subject to numerous risks, including market conditions,
    counterparty willingness to transact, or terminate transactions,
    with AIGFP and the retention of key personnel. An orderly and
    successful wind-down will also depend on the stability of
    AIG s credit ratings. Further downgrades of AIG s
    credit ratings likely would have an adverse effect on the
    wind-down of AIGFP s businesses and portfolios.

Use
    of Estimates    

If actual experience differs from management s estimates
    used in the preparation of financial statements, AIG s
    consolidated results of operations or financial condition could
    be adversely affected.   The preparation of
    financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States requires the application
    of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree
    of judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are
    most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions,
    and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, are those
    described in Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates
    require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly
    uncertain at the time of estimation. For example, recent market
    volatility and declines in liquidity have made it more difficult
    to value certain of AIG s invested assets and the
    obligations and collateral relating to certain financial
    instruments issued or held by AIG, such as AIGFP s super
    senior credit default swap portfolio. Additionally, the
    recoverability of deferred tax assets depends in large part on
    assumptions about future profitability. These estimates, by
    their nature, are based on judgment and current facts and
    circumstances. Therefore, actual results could differ from these
    estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material
    effect on the consolidated financial statements.

Legal
    Proceedings    

Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect AIG s
    results of operations.   AIG is party to numerous
    legal proceedings, including securities class actions and
    regulatory or governmental investigations. Due to the nature of
    the litigation, the lack of precise damage claims and the type
    of claims made against AIG, AIG cannot currently quantify its
    ultimate liability for these actions. It is possible that
    developments in these unresolved matters could have a material
    adverse effect on AIG s consolidated financial condition or
    consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting
    period. For a discussion of these unresolved matters, see
    Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Aircraft
    Suppliers    

There are limited suppliers of aircraft and
    engines.   The supply of jet transport aircraft,
    which ILFC purchases and leases, is dominated by two airframe
    manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and a limited number of engine
    manufacturers. As a result, ILFC is dependent on the
    manufacturers  success in remaining financially stable,
    producing aircraft and related components which meet the
    airlines  demands, both in type and quantity, and
    fulfilling their contractual obligations to ILFC. Competition
    between the manufacturers for market share is intense and may
    lead to instances of deep discounting for certain aircraft types
    that could negatively affect ILFC s competitive pricing.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
    received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
    of AIG s fiscal year relating to AIG s periodic or
    current reports under the Exchange Act.

32    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Item 2.      

Properties   

AIG and its subsidiaries operate from approximately 2,000
    offices in the United States, 41 in Puerto Rico, 8 in Canada and
    numerous offices in over 100 foreign countries. The offices in
    Greensboro and Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Springfield,
    Illinois; Amarillo, Ft. Worth, Houston and Lewisville,
    Texas; Wilmington, Delaware; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Tampa,
    Florida; Livingston, New Jersey; Evansville, Indiana; Nashville,
    Tennessee; 70 Pine Street, 72 Wall Street and 175 Water Street
    in New York, New York; and offices in more than 30 foreign
    countries and jurisdictions including Bermuda, Chile, Hong Kong,
    the Philippines, Japan, the U.K., Singapore, Malaysia,
    Switzerland, Taiwan and Thailand are located in buildings owned
    by AIG and its subsidiaries. The remainder of the office space
    utilized by AIG subsidiaries is leased.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 14(a) to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
    during the fourth quarter of 2008.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    33 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Part II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

AIG s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
    Exchange, as well as on the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.

The following table presents the high and low closing sales
    prices on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the
    dividends paid per share of AIG s common stock for each
    quarter of 2008 and 2007: 

The approximate number of record holders of common stock as of
    January 30, 2009 was 58,182.

Under the Fed Credit Agreement, AIG is restricted from paying
    dividends on its common stock.

For a discussion of certain restrictions on the payment of
    dividends to AIG by some of its insurance subsidiaries, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity   AIG
    parent s ability to access funds from its subsidiaries is
    severely limited, and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

AIG s table of equity compensation plans previously
    approved by security holders and equity compensation plans not
    previously approved by security holders will be included in the
    definitive proxy statement for AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC no later than
    120 days after the close of AIG s fiscal year pursuant
    to Regulation 14A.

34    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Performance
    Graph  

The following Performance Graph compares the cumulative total
    shareholder return on AIG common stock for a five-year period
    (December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2008) with the
    cumulative total return of the S P s 500 stock index
    (which includes AIG) and a peer group of companies consisting of
    nine insurance companies to which AIG compares its business and
    operations: ACE Limited, Aflac Incorporated, The Chubb
    Corporation, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.,
    Lincoln National Corporation, MetLife, Inc., Prudential
    Financial, Inc., The Travelers Companies, Inc. (formerly The St.
    Paul Travelers Companies, Inc.) and XL Capital Ltd.

FIVE-YEAR
    CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 
    Value of $100 Invested on December 31, 2003  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    35 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

American
    International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
    Selected Consolidated Financial Data  

The Selected Consolidated Financial Data should be read in
    conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the
    consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes
    included elsewhere herein. 

36    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(a)   

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period
    amounts to conform to the current period presentation.  

See Note 1(ff) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    effects of adopting new accounting standards.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    37 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Throughout this Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG presents its
    operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful.
    Statutory underwriting profit (loss) is presented in accordance
    with accounting principles prescribed by insurance regulatory
    authorities because these are standard measures of performance
    used in the insurance industry and thus allow more meaningful
    comparisons with AIG s insurance competitors. AIG has also
    incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references
    to additional information included throughout this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    to assist readers seeking additional information related to a
    particular subject.

38    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Cautionary
    Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information  

This Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and other publicly available documents may include, and
    AIG s officers and representatives may from time to time
    make, projections and statements which may constitute
     forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
    projections and statements are not historical facts but instead
    represent only AIG s belief regarding future events, many
    of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside
    AIG s control. These projections and statements may
    address, among other things, the outcome of proposed
    transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of
    the Treasury, the number, size, terms, cost and timing of
    dispositions and their potential effect on AIG s
    businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows and liquidity (and AIG at any time and from time to time
    may change its plans with respect to the sale of one or more
    businesses), AIG s exposures to subprime mortgages,
    monoline insurers and the residential and commercial real estate
    markets and AIG s strategy for growth, product development,
    market position, financial results and reserves. It is possible
    that AIG s actual results and financial condition will
    differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and
    financial condition indicated in these projections and
    statements. Factors that could cause AIG s actual results
    to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific
    projections and statements include a failure to complete the
    proposed transactions with the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury, developments in global credit
    markets and such other factors as discussed throughout this
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any
    obligation) to update or alter any projection or other
    statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time
    to time, whether as a result of new information, future events
    or otherwise.

Overview  

Operations  

AIG identifies its operating segments by product line,
    consistent with its management structure. These segments are
    General Insurance, Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services, Financial Services and Asset Management. Through these
    operating segments, AIG provides insurance, financial and
    investment products and services to both businesses and
    individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions.

AIG s subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and
    individual customers through an extensive property-casualty and
    life insurance and retirement services network. AIG s
    Financial Services businesses include commercial aircraft and
    equipment leasing, capital markets operations and consumer
    finance, both in the United States and abroad. AIG also provides
    asset management services to institutions and individuals.

General
    Business Environment  

The 2008 business environment was one of the most difficult in
    recent decades. In the U.S., real GDP shrank at annual rates of
    more than 4 percent in the second half of the year and
    almost 4 percent in the fourth quarter alone. At the
    beginning of 2008, the unemployment rate was 4.9 percent
    and by year-end was 7.2 percent.

The strong declines in the overall U.S. economy during the
    second half of 2008 occurred despite repeated reductions of
    interest rates by the Federal Reserve, the creation of numerous
    credit facilities for the banking system and the passage of a
    stimulus package.

Consideration
    of AIG s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern  

In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    management has assessed whether AIG has the ability to continue
    as a going concern (See Note 1 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements). In making this assessment, AIG has
    considered:

The commitment of the NY Fed and the United States Department of
    the Treasury to the orderly restructuring of AIG and their
    commitment to continuing to work with AIG to maintain its
    ability to meet its obligations as they come due;

The liquidity events in the second half of 2008, including
    transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of
    the Treasury;

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    39 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG s liquidity-related actions and plans to stabilize its
    businesses and repay the Fed Facility;

The level of AIG s realized and unrealized losses and the
    negative impact of these losses in shareholders  equity and
    on the capital levels of AIG s insurance subsidiaries;

The substantial resolution of the liquidity issues surrounding
    AIGFP s multi-sector super senior credit default swap
    portfolio and the U.S. securities lending program;

The additional capital provided to AIG by the United States
    Department of the Treasury;

Anticipated transactions with the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury;

The continuing liquidity issues in AIG s businesses and
    AIG s actions to address such issues; and

The substantial risks to which AIG is subject.

Each of these items is discussed in more detail below.

In considering these items, management has made significant
    judgments and estimates with respect to the potentially adverse
    financial and liquidity effects of AIG s risks and
    uncertainties. Management has also assessed other items and
    risks arising in AIG s businesses and made reasonable
    judgments and estimates with respect thereto. After
    consideration, management believes that it will have adequate
    liquidity to finance and operate AIG s businesses and
    continue as a going concern for at least the next twelve months.

It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of
    management s plans could be materially different or that
    one or more of management s significant judgments or
    estimates about the potential effects of the risks and
    uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect or that the
    principal transactions disclosed in Note 23 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements (and as discussed below) are
    not consummated. If one or more of these possible outcomes is
    realized, AIG may need additional U.S. government support
    to meet its obligations as they come due.

Liquidity  

Liquidity
    Events in the Second Half of 2008   

In the second half of 2008, AIG experienced an unprecedented
    strain on liquidity. This strain led to a series of transactions
    with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the
    Treasury. The two principal causes of the liquidity strain were
    demands for the return of cash collateral under the
    U.S. securities lending program and collateral calls on
    AIGFP s super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap
    portfolio.

Under AIG s securities lending program, cash collateral was
    received from borrowers in exchange for loans of securities
    owned by AIG s insurance company subsidiaries. The cash was
    invested by AIG in fixed income securities, primarily
    residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), to earn a spread.
    During September 2008, borrowers began in increasing numbers to
    request a return of their cash collateral. Because of the
    illiquidity in the market for RMBS, AIG was unable to sell RMBS
    at acceptable prices and was forced to find alternative sources
    of cash to meet these requests. As of the end of August,
    AIG s U.S. securities lending program had
    approximately $69 billion of borrowings outstanding. See
    Investments   Securities Lending Activities for
    additional information about the securities lending program.

Additionally, throughout the second half of 2008, declines in
    the fair values of the super senior multi-sector CDO securities
    protected by AIGFP s credit default swap portfolio,
    together with ratings downgrades of the CDO securities, resulted
    in AIGFP being required to post significant additional
    collateral. As of the end of August 2008, AIG had posted
    approximately $19.7 billion of collateral under its super
    senior credit default swap portfolio. See Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Fair Value Measurements of Certain
    Financial Assets and Liabilities for additional information
    about AIGFP s super senior multi-sector CDO credit default
    swap portfolio.

Both of these liquidity strains were significantly exacerbated
    by the downgrades of AIG s long-term debt ratings by
    S P, Moody s and Fitch on September 15, 2008.

40    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Arrangements
    with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the United States
    Department of the Treasury   

Fed
    Credit Agreement   

Because of these immediate liquidity requirements, AIG s
    Board of Directors determined that the only viable alternative
    was to accept an arrangement offered by the NY Fed, and on
    September 16, 2008, approved borrowing from the NY Fed
    based on a term sheet that set forth the terms of the secured
    credit agreement and related equity participation. Over the next
    six days, AIG elected Edward M. Liddy Director, Chairman and
    CEO, replacing Robert Willumstad in those positions, negotiated
    a definitive credit agreement with the NY Fed and borrowed, on a
    secured basis, approximately $37 billion from the NY Fed,
    enabling AIG to meet its liquidity requirements before formally
    entering into a credit agreement with the NY Fed.

On September 22, 2008, AIG entered into the Fed Credit
    Agreement in the form of a two-year secured loan and the Pledge
    Agreement with the NY Fed. On November 9, 2008, AIG and the
    NY Fed agreed to amend the Fed Credit Agreement to reduce the
    total commitment under the Fed Facility to $60 billion
    following the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock
    (described below), extend the term of the Fed Facility to
    5 years and reduce the related interest and fees payable
    under the Fed Facility. See Note 13 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for information regarding the terms of and
    borrowings under the Fed Credit Agreement.

Series D
    Preferred Stock Issuance   

On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Securities
    Purchase Agreement (the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase
    Agreement) with the United States Department of the Treasury
    pursuant to which, among other things, AIG issued and sold to
    the United States Department of the Treasury, as part of the
    Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the Systemically
    Significant Failing Institutions Program, $40 billion of
    Series D Preferred Stock, and a warrant to purchase
    53,798,766 shares of common stock (the Warrant). The
    proceeds from the sale of the Series D Preferred Stock and
    the Warrant were used to repay borrowings under the Fed
    Facility. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information on the Series D
    Preferred Stock and the Warrant.

Termination
    of $62 billion of CDS   

On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Master Investment
    and Credit Agreement (the ML III Agreement) with the NY Fed,
    Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III), and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, which established arrangements, through ML III, to fund
    the purchase of the multi-sector CDOs underlying or related to
    certain credit default swaps and other similar derivative
    instruments (CDS) written by AIG Financial Products Corp. in
    connection with the termination of such CDS transactions.
    Concurrently, AIG Financial Products Corp. s counterparties
    to such CDS transactions agreed to terminate those CDS
    transactions relating to the multi-sector CDOs purchased from
    them by ML III. Through December 31, 2008, ML III had
    purchased from counterparties a total of $62.1 billion in
    par amount of CDO securities, and the associated credit default
    swaps had been terminated. Approximately $12.2 billion
    notional amount of AIG Financial Products Corp. s CDS
    transactions referencing super senior multi-sector CDOs remained
    outstanding as of February 18, 2009. See Note 5 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
    transactions with ML III.

Resolution
    of U.S. Securities Lending Program   

On December 12, 2008, AIG, certain of AIG s wholly
    owned U.S. life insurance subsidiaries, and AIG Securities
    Lending Corp. (the AIG Agent), another AIG subsidiary, entered
    into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the ML II Agreement) with
    Maiden Lane II LLC (ML II), a Delaware limited liability
    company whose sole member is the NY Fed.

Pursuant to the ML II Agreement, the life insurance subsidiaries
    sold to ML II all of their undivided interests in a pool of
    $39.3 billion face amount of RMBS held by the AIG Agent as
    agent of the life insurance subsidiaries in connection with
    AIG s U.S. securities lending program. In exchange for
    the RMBS, the life insurance subsidiaries received an initial
    purchase price of approximately $19.8 billion plus the
    right to receive deferred contingent portions of the total
    purchase price of $1 billion plus participation in the
    residual, each of which is subordinated to the repayment of the
    NY Fed loan to ML II. These life insurance subsidiaries applied
    the net cash proceeds of sale of

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    41 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

the RMBS toward the amounts due by such life insurance
    subsidiaries in terminating both the U.S. securities
    lending program and the interim agreement entered into with the
    NY Fed whereby the NY Fed borrowed securities from AIG
    subsidiaries in exchange for cash collateral. See
    Investments   Securities Lending Activities and
    Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    information on the transaction with ML II.

AIG
    Affiliates Participate in the NY Fed s Commercial Paper
    Funding Facility   

On October 27, 2008, four affiliates of AIG (including
    ILFC) applied for participation in the CPFF. Currently, AIG
    Funding, Inc., an AIG subsidiary, and two of AIGFP s
    sponsored vehicles, Curzon Funding LLC and Nightingale Finance
    LLC may issue up to approximately $6.9 billion,
    $7.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, of
    commercial paper under the CPFF. AIG Funding uses the proceeds
    to refinance AIG s outstanding commercial paper as it
    matures, meet other working capital needs and make prepayments
    under the Fed Facility while the two other programs use the
    proceeds to refinance maturing commercial paper. On
    January 21, 2009, S P downgraded ILFC s
    short-term credit rating and, as a result, ILFC can no longer
    participate in the CPFF.

Series C
    Preferred Stock Issuance   

On March 1, 2009, AIG entered into the Series C Preferred
    Stock Purchase Agreement with the Trust, pursuant to which AIG
    agreed to issue and sell 100,000 shares of Series C
    Preferred Stock to the Trust. AIG expects to issue the
    Series C Preferred Stock to the Trust in early March, 2009.
    The aggregate purchase price for the Series C Preferred
    Stock was $500,000, with an understanding that additional and
    independently sufficient consideration was also furnished in
    September 2008 by the NY Fed in the form of its $85 billion
    lending commitment under the Fed Credit Agreement.

The Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, among
    other things:

provides the Trust with rights to require registration of the
    Series C Preferred Stock under the Securities Act of 1933 and
    for AIG to facilitate other dispositions;

prohibits AIG from issuing capital stock without the approval of
    the Trust so long as the Trust owns 50 percent of the
    Series C Preferred Stock, subject to certain exceptions
    relating to existing obligations and employee benefit plans;

requires AIG and its Board of Directors to work in good faith
    with the Trust to ensure satisfactory corporate governance
    arrangements;

requires the following proposals to be presented to AIG s
    shareholders at AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders:

to amend AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to
    permit AIG s Board of Directors to issue classes of
    preferred stock that are not of equal rank and cause the
    Series D Preferred Stock and any other series of preferred
    stock subsequently issued to the United States Department of the
    Treasury to rank senior to the Series C Preferred Stock and
    any other subsequently issued series of preferred stock that is
    not issued to the United States Department of the Treasury; and

to eliminate any restriction on the pledging of all or
    substantially all of AIG s properties or assets; and

requires the following proposals to be presented to AIG s
    shareholders at a special shareholders  meeting or at a
    future annual shareholders  meeting following notice from
    the Trust:

to amend AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to
    decrease the par value of AIG s common stock, increase the
    authorized number of shares of common stock and, if these
    amendments are not approved;

to amend the terms of AIG s Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation to decrease the par value of AIG s serial
    preferred stock and increase the number of authorized shares of
    AIG s serial preferred stock, and amend the terms of the
    Series C Preferred Stock to increase the number of shares of
    Series C Preferred Stock so that each share of Series C
    Preferred Stock would be convertible into common stock on
    approximately a one-to-one basis.

42    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The Series C Preferred Stock is not redeemable by AIG and,
    upon the effectiveness of the required amendments to AIG s
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, will be convertible into
    common stock. From issuance, the Series C Preferred Stock
    will, to the extent permitted by law, vote with the common stock
    as a single class and represent approximately 77.9 percent
    of the voting power of the common stock, treating the Series C
    Preferred Stock as converted. The Series C Preferred Stock
    will also participate in any dividends paid on the common stock,
    with approximately 77.9 percent of all dividends paid
    allocated to the Series C Preferred Stock, treating the
    Series C Preferred Stock as converted. Upon the liquidation,
    dissolution or winding up of AIG, the Series C Preferred
    Stock is entitled to a liquidation preference per share equal to
    the greater of (i) $5.00 and (ii) the amount that
    would be payable with respect to the shares of common stock
    issuable upon conversion of such share of Series C
    Preferred Stock. For additional information about the
    Series C Preferred Stock, see Note 15 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

March
    2009 Agreements in Principle   

On March 2, 2009, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury announced agreements in principle to
    modify the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement and the
    Series D Preferred Stock and to provide a $30 billion
    equity capital commitment facility. The United States Government
    has issued the following statement referring to the agreements
    in principle and other transactions they expect to undertake
    with AIG intended to strengthen AIG s capital position,
    enhance its liquidity, reduce its borrowing costs and facilitate
    AIG s asset disposition program.

The steps announced today provide tangible evidence of the
    U.S. government s commitment to the orderly
    restructuring of AIG over time in the face of continuing market
    dislocations and economic deterioration. Orderly restructuring
    is essential to AIG s repayment of the support it has
    received from U.S. taxpayers and to preserving financial
    stability. The U.S. government is committed to continuing
    to work with AIG to maintain its ability to meet its obligations
    as they come due. 

See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Modification
    to Series D Preferred Stock   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the United States Department of
    the Treasury announced their agreement in principle to enter
    into a transaction pursuant to which the United States
    Department of the Treasury would modify the terms of the
    Series D Preferred Stock. The modification will be effected
    by an exchange of 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
    Series D Preferred Stock for newly issued perpetual serial
    preferred stock (Series E Preferred Stock), with a
    liquidation preference equal to the issuance-date liquidation
    preference of the Series D Preferred Stock surrendered plus
    accumulated but unpaid dividends thereon. The terms of the
    Series E Preferred Stock will be the same as for the
    Series D Preferred Stock except that the dividends will not
    be cumulative. The Series D Preferred Stock bore cumulative
    dividends.

The dividend rate on both the cumulative Series D Preferred
    Stock and the non-cumulative Series E Preferred Stock is
    10 percent per annum. Concurrent with the exchange of the
    shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the Series E
    Preferred Stock, AIG will enter into a replacement capital
    covenant in favor of the holders of a series of AIG debt,
    pursuant to which AIG will agree that prior to the third
    anniversary of the issuance of the Series E Preferred Stock
    AIG will not repay, redeem or purchase, and no subsidiary of AIG
    will purchase, all or any part of the Series E Preferred
    Stock except with the proceeds obtained from the issuance by AIG
    or any subsidiary of AIG of certain capital securities. AIG will
    make a statement of intent substantially similar to the
    replacement capital covenant with respect to subsequent years.
    The Series D Preferred Stock was not subject to a
    replacement capital covenant.

Equity
    Capital Commitment Facility   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the United States Department of
    the Treasury announced its agreement in principle to provide AIG
    with a
     5-year 
    equity capital commitment facility of $30 billion. AIG may
    use the facility to sell to the United States Department of the
    Treasury fixed-rate, non-cumulative perpetual serial preferred
    stock

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    43 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(Series F Preferred Stock). The facility will be available
    to AIG so long as AIG is not the debtor in a pending case under
    Title 11, United States Code, and the Trust (or any
    successor entity established for the benefit of the United
    States Treasury)  beneficially owns  more than 50
    percent of the aggregate voting power of AIG s voting
    securities at the time of such drawdown.

The terms of the Series F Preferred Stock will be
    substantially similar to the Series E Preferred Stock,
    except that the Series F Preferred Stock will not be
    subject to a replacement capital covenant or the statement of
    intent.

In connection with the equity capital commitment facility, the
    United States Department of the Treasury will also receive
    warrants exercisable for a number of shares of common stock of
    AIG equal to 1 percent of AIG s then outstanding common
    stock and, upon issuance of the warrants, the dividends payable
    on, and the voting power of, the Series C Preferred Stock
    will be reduced by the number of shares subject to the warrant.

Repayment
    of Fed Facility with Subsidiary Preferred Equity   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their intent
    to enter into a transaction pursuant to which AIG will transfer
    to the NY Fed preferred equity interests in newly-formed special
    purpose vehicles (SPVs). Each SPV will have (directly or
    indirectly) as its only asset 100 percent of the common stock of
    an AIG operating subsidiary (AIA in one case and ALICO in the
    other). AIG expects to own the common interests of each SPV and
    will initially have the right to appoint the entire board of
    directors of each SPV. In exchange for the preferred equity
    interests received by the NY Fed, there would be a concurrent
    substantial reduction in the outstanding balance and maximum
    available amount to be borrowed on the Fed Facility.

Securitizations   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their intent
    to enter into a transaction pursuant to which AIG will issue to
    the NY Fed senior certificates in one or more newly-formed SPVs
    backed by inforce blocks of life insurance policies in
    settlement of a portion of the outstanding balance of the Fed
    Facility. The amount of the Fed Facility reduction will be based
    on the proceeds received. The SPVs are expected to be
    consolidated by AIG.

Modification
    to Fed Facility   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their
    agreement in principle to amend the Fed Credit Agreement to
    remove the interest rate floor. Under the current terms,
    interest accrues on the outstanding borrowings under the Fed
    Facility at three-month LIBOR (no less than 3.5 percent) plus
    3.0 percent per annum. The 3.5 percent LIBOR floor will be
    eliminated following the amendment. In addition, the Fed
    Facility will be amended to ensure that the total commitment
    will be at least $25 billion, even after giving effect to
    the repayment of the Fed Facility with subsidiary preferred
    equity and securitization transactions described above. These
    proceeds are expected to substantially reduce the outstanding
    borrowings under the Fed Facility from the amount outstanding as
    of December 31, 2008.

Liquidity
    Position  

At December 31, 2008, AIG had outstanding borrowings under
    the Fed Facility of $36.8 billion, with a remaining
    borrowing capacity of $23.2 billion, and accrued
    compounding interest and fees totaled $3.6 billion.

44    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Borrowings outstanding and remaining available amount that
    can be borrowed under the Fed Facility were as follows: 

(a)   

Includes securities lending activities.  

(b)   

Includes repayments from funds received from the Fed
    Securities Lending Agreement and the CPFF.  

(c)   

At February 25, 2009, $36 billion was outstanding
    under the Fed Facility.  

AIG s
    Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of AIG s
    Obligations as They Come Due  

Future
    Cash Requirements   

The following table shows the maturing debt of AIG and its
    subsidiaries for each quarter of 2009: 

In addition, at February 18, 2009, AIG affiliates had
    issued $14 billion in commercial paper to the CPFF with the
    majority of maturities in April of 2009. If AIG s
    short-term ratings are downgraded, AIG Funding may lose access
    to the CPFF and would be required to find other sources to fund
    the maturing commercial paper.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    45 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG expects to meet these obligations primarily through
    borrowings from the Fed Facility and the cash flows, including
    from dispositions, of assets supporting these obligations.
    Approximately $3.1 billion of AIGFP s debt maturities
    through December 31, 2009 are fully collateralized with
    assets backing the corresponding liabilities. It is expected
    that AGF and ILFC will require support from AIG, in addition to
    their cash flows from operations and proceeds from asset sales
    and securitizations, to meet their 2009 obligations. See
    Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information regarding the terms of the Fed Credit
    Agreement and the related Pledge Agreement.

In 2009, AIG made capital contributions of $1.25 billion to
    certain of its Domestic Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services companies. If a substantial portion of the Domestic
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services bond portfolio
    diminishes significantly in value or suffers credit events, AIG
    may need to provide additional capital support for these
    operations.

AIG has developed certain plans (described below), some of which
    have already been implemented, to provide stability to its
    businesses and to provide for the timely repayment of the Fed
    Facility; other plans are still being formulated.

Asset
    Disposition Plan   

On October 3, 2008, AIG announced a restructuring plan
    under which AIG s Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services operations and certain other businesses would be
    divested in whole or in part. Since that time, AIG has sold
    certain businesses and assets and has entered into contracts to
    sell others. However, global market conditions have continued to
    deteriorate, posing risks to AIG s ability to divest assets
    at acceptable values. As announced on March 2, 2009 and as
    described in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, AIG s restructuring plan has evolved in
    response to these market conditions. Specifically, AIG s
    current plans involve transactions between AIG and the NY Fed
    with respect to AIA and ALICO, as well as plans to retain the
    majority of AIG s U.S. property and casualty and
    foreign general insurance businesses.

AIG believes that these current plans are necessary to maximize
    the value of its businesses over a longer time frame. Therefore,
    some businesses that have previously been prepared for sale will
    be divested, some will be held for later divestiture, and some
    businesses will be prepared for potential subsequent offerings
    to the public. Dispositions of certain businesses will be
    subject to regulatory approval. Proceeds from these
    dispositions, to the extent they do not represent required
    capital of AIG s insurance company subsidiaries, are
    contractually required to be applied toward the repayment of the
    Fed Facility as mandatory repayments.

In connection with AIG s asset disposition plan, through
    February 18, 2009, AIG had sold, or entered into contracts
    to sell the following operations:

On November 26, 2008, AIG sold its 50 percent stake in
    the Brazilian joint venture Unibanco AIG Seguros S.A. to
    AIG s JV partner Unibanco-Uni o de Bancos Brasileiros
    S.A.

On December 1, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell
    AIG Private Bank Ltd. to Aabar Investments PJSC.

On December 18, 2008, AIG sold the assets of its Taiwan
    Finance business to Taiwan Acceptance Corporation.

On December 19, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell
    Deutsche Versicherungs-und
    R ckversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft (Darag), a German
    general insurance subsidiary of AIG affiliate
    W rttembergische und Badische Versicherungs-AG(W Ba)
    in Germany, to Augur.

On December 22, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell
    HSB Group, Inc., the parent company of HSB, to Munich Re Group.

On January 13, 2009, AIG entered into a contract to sell
    AIG Life Insurance Company of Canada to BMO Financial Group.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    46 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

On January 23, 2009, AIG entered into a contract to sell
    AIG PhilAm Savings Bank, PhilAm Auto Financing and Leasing, and
    PFL Holdings to EastWest Banking Corporation.

On February 5, 2009, AIG entered into a contract to sell
    AIG Retail Bank Public Company Limited and AIG Card (Thailand)
    to Bank of Ayudhya.

Subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including
    regulatory approvals, AIG expects those sales that are under
    contract to close during the first half of 2009. These
    operations had total assets and liabilities with carrying values
    of approximately $14.1 billion and $12.6 billion,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008. Aggregate proceeds from
    the sale of these businesses, including repayment of
    intercompany loan facilities, are expected to be
    $2.8 billion. These eight transactions are expected to
    generate $2.1 billion of net cash proceeds to repay
    outstanding borrowings on the Fed Facility, after taking
    insurance affiliate capital requirements into account.

AIG expects to divest its Institutional Asset Management
    businesses that manage third-party assets. These businesses
    offered for sale exclude those providing traditional fixed
    income and shorter duration asset and liability management for
    AIG s insurance company subsidiaries. The extraction of
    these asset management businesses will require the establishment
    of shared service arrangements between the remaining asset
    management businesses and those that are sold as well as the
    establishment of new asset management contracts, which will be
    determined in conjunction with the buyers of these businesses.

AIGFP is engaged in a multi-step process of unwinding its
    businesses and portfolios. In connection with that process,
    certain assets have been sold, or are under contract to be sold.
    The proceeds from these sales will be used for AIGFP s
    liquidity and are not included in the amounts above. The NY Fed
    has waived the requirement under the Fed Credit Agreement that
    the proceeds of these sales be applied as a mandatory repayment
    under the Fed Facility, which would result in a permanent
    reduction of the NY Fed s commitment to lend to AIG.
    Instead, the NY Fed has given AIGFP permission to retain the
    proceeds of the completed sales, and has required that the
    proceeds of pending sales be used to voluntarily repay the Fed
    Facility, with the amounts repaid available for future
    reborrowing subject to the terms of the Fed Facility. AIGFP is
    also opportunistically terminating contracts. AIGFP is entering
    into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current
    portfolio, reduce risk and hedge the currency, interest rate and
    other market risks associated with its affiliated businesses.
    Due to the long-term duration of AIGFP s derivative
    contracts and the complexity of AIGFP s portfolio, AIG
    expects that an orderly wind-down will take a substantial period
    of time. The cost of executing the wind-down will depend on many
    factors, many of which are not within AIGFP s control,
    including market conditions, AIGFP s access to markets via
    market counterparties, the availability of liquidity and the
    potential implications of further rating downgrades.

AIG continually evaluates overall market conditions, performance
    of businesses that are for sale, and market and business
    performance of competitors and likely bidders for the assets.
    This evaluation informs decision-making about the timing and
    process of putting businesses up for sale. Depending on market
    and business conditions, as noted above, AIG can modify its
    sales approach to maximize value for AIG and the
    U.S. taxpayers in the disposition process. Such a
    modification could result in the sale of additional or other
    assets.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
     Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets  (FAS 144) requires that certain criteria be
    met in order for AIG to classify a business as held for sale. At
    December 31, 2008, the held for sale criteria in
    FAS 144 was not met for AIG s significant businesses
    included in its asset disposition plan.

Expense
    Reductions and Preservation of Cash and Capital   

AIG developed a plan to review significant projects and
    eliminated, delayed, or curtailed those that are discretionary
    or non-essential to make available internal resources and to
    improve liquidity by reducing cash outflows to outside service
    providers. AIG also suspended the dividend on its common stock
    to preserve capital.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    47 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Liquidity
    of Parent and Subsidiaries   

AIG
    (Parent Company)   

At February 18, 2009, AIG parent had the following sources
    of liquidity:

$24.8 billion of available borrowings under the Fed
    Facility;

$753 million of available commercial paper borrowings under
    the CPFF; and

$1.1 billion of cash and short-term investments.

These sources of liquidity will be supplemented when the
    liquidity arrangements expected to be entered into among AIG,
    the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury are
    implemented. As a result, AIG believes that it has sufficient
    liquidity at the parent level to meet its obligations through at
    least the next twelve months. However, no assurance can be
    given that AIG s cash needs will not exceed projected
    amounts. Additional collateral calls at AIGFP, a further
    downgrade of AIG s credit ratings or unexpected capital or
    liquidity needs of AIG s subsidiaries may result in
    significant additional cash needs. For a further discussion of
    this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Since the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG has not had access to its
    traditional sources of long-term or short-term financing through
    the public debt markets. Further, in light of AIG s current
    common stock price, AIG does not expect to be able to issue
    equity securities in the public markets in the foreseeable
    future.

Traditionally AIG depended on dividends, distributions, and
    other payments from subsidiaries to fund payments on its
    obligations. In light of AIG s current financial situation,
    many of its regulated subsidiaries are restricted from making
    dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG (see Item 1A.
    Risk Factors). Primary uses of cash flow are for debt service
    and subsidiary funding. In 2008, AIG parent collected
    $2.7 billion in dividends and other payments from
    subsidiaries (primarily from insurance company subsidiaries),
    issued $12.8 billion of debt and retired $3.2 billion
    of debt, excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt. Excluding MIP
    and Series AIGFP debt, AIG parent made interest payments
    totaling $1.5 billion, and made $27.2 billion in net
    capital contributions to subsidiaries. AIG paid
    $1.7 billion in dividends to shareholders in 2008, prior to
    the suspension of dividends in September 2008.

AIG parent funds a portion of its short-term working capital
    needs through commercial paper issued by AIG Funding. Since
    October 2008, all commercial paper issuance for AIG Funding has
    been through the CPFF program. As of December 31, 2008, AIG
    Funding had $6.9 billion of commercial paper outstanding
    with an average maturity of 32 days, of which
    $6.6 billion was issued through the CPFF.

AIG s liquidity could also be further impaired by
    unforeseen significant outflows of cash. This situation may
    arise due to circumstances that AIG may be unable to control,
    such as more extensive general market disruption or an
    operational problem that affects third parties or AIG.
    Regulatory and other legal restrictions would likely limit
    AIG s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from
    its subsidiaries. For a further discussion of the regulatory
    environment in which AIG subsidiaries operate and other issues
    affecting AIG s liquidity, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

General
    Insurance   

AIG currently expects that its general insurance subsidiaries
    will be able to continue to meet their obligations as they come
    due through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary,
    asset dispositions. One or more large catastrophes, however, may
    require AIG to provide additional support to the affected
    general insurance operations. In addition, further downgrades in
    AIG s credit ratings could put pressure on the insurer
    financial strength ratings of these subsidiaries. A downgrade in
    the insurer financial strength ratings of an insurance company
    subsidiary could result in non-renewals or cancellations by
    policyholders and adversely affect these companies  ability
    to meet their own obligations and require that AIG provide
    capital or liquidity support to them. For a discussion of
    AIG s potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity.

48    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

General Insurance operating cash flow is derived from
    underwriting and investment activities. Cash flow from
    underwriting operations includes collections of periodic
    premiums and paid loss recoveries, less reinsurance premiums,
    losses, and acquisition and operating expenses. Generally, there
    is a time lag from when premiums are collected and losses and
    benefits are paid. Investment cash flow is primarily derived
    from interest and dividends received, and includes investment
    maturities and repayments.

With respect to General Insurance operations, if paid losses
    accelerated beyond AIG s ability to fund such losses from
    current operating cash flows, AIG might need to liquidate a
    portion of its General Insurance investment portfolio
     and/or 
    attempt to arrange for financing. A liquidity strain could
    result from the occurrence of one or several significant
    catastrophic events in a relatively short period of time.
    Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments
    liquidated to fund such paid losses were sold in a depressed
    market place. Further liquidity strains could also arise if
    reinsurance recoverable on such paid losses became uncollectible
    or collateral supporting such reinsurance recoverable
    significantly decreased in value.

At December 31, 2008, General Insurance had liquidity in
    the form of cash and short-term investments of $11.7 billion. In
    the event additional liquidity is required, management believes
    it can provide such liquidity through sale of a portion of its
    substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds as well
    as equity securities. Government and corporate bonds represented
    97.6 percent of total fixed income investments at
    December 31, 2008. Given the size and liquidity profile of
    AIG s General Insurance investment portfolios, AIG believes
    that deviations from its projected claim experience do not
    constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIG s
    asset/liability management process takes into account the
    expected maturity of investments and the specific nature and
    risk profile of liabilities. Historically, there has been no
    significant variation between the expected maturities of
    AIG s General Insurance investments and the payment of
    claims.

AIG has arranged for letters of credit that totaled
    $1.6 billion and funded trusts totaling $2.9 billion
    at December 31, 2008, to allow certain AIG Property and
    Casualty Group subsidiaries to obtain admitted surplus credit
    for reinsurance provided by non-admitted carriers. Substantially
    all the letters of credit may be cancelled on December 31,
    2010. The inability of AIG to renew or replace these letters of
    credit or otherwise obtain equivalent financial support would
    result in a reduction of the statutory surplus of these property
    and casualty companies. AIG Property Casualty Group maintains
    liquidity in its investment portfolio through holdings of
    $6.2 billion of municipal securities which have been
    refunded and are escrowed to the call or to maturity. The
    maturities of these holdings are all less than ten years, and
    the bonds are secured by the United States Department of the
    Treasury or Government Agency securities held in escrow by
    trustees. These municipal holdings have substantial unrealized
    gains and demonstrated liquidity even during the market
    dislocations experienced during the fourth quarter of 2008.

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services   

Life Insurance   Retirement Services operating cash
    flow is derived from underwriting and investment activities.
    Cash flow from underwriting operations includes collections of
    periodic premiums and policyholders  contract deposits, and
    paid loss recoveries, less reinsurance premiums, losses,
    benefits, surrenders, and acquisition and operating expenses.
    Generally, there is a time lag from when premiums are collected
    and losses and benefits are paid. Investment cash flow is
    primarily derived from interest and dividends received, and
    includes investment maturities and repayments. Contributions
    from AIG parent also represent a liquidity source.

If a substantial portion of the Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services operations bond portfolio diminished
    significantly in value
     and/or 
    defaulted, AIG might need to provide capital or liquidity
    support to these operations. For a discussion of AIG s
    potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity. A significant
    increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals, which could be
    triggered by a variety of factors, including AIG-specific
    concerns, could result in a substantial liquidity strain. Other
    potential events causing a liquidity strain could include
    economic collapse of a nation or region in which Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services operations exist,
    nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, or other economic
    or political upheaval.

At December 31, 2008, Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services had liquidity in the form of cash and short-term
    investments of $32.3 billion. In the event additional
    liquidity is required, management believes it can provide such
    liquidity through sale of a portion of its substantial holdings
    in government and corporate bonds as well as equity

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    49 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

securities. Government and corporate bonds represented 84.8
    percent of total fixed income investments at December 31,
    2008. Given the size and liquidity profile of AIG s Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services investment portfolios, AIG
    believes that deviations from its projected claim experience do
    not constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIG s
    asset/liability management process takes into account the
    expected maturity of investments and expected benefit payments
    and policy surrenders as well as the specific nature and risk
    profile of these liabilities. The Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services subsidiaries have been able to meet
    liquidity needs, even during the period of higher surrenders
    which was experienced from mid-September through year-end 2008,
    and expect to be able to do so in the foreseeable future.

Foreign
    Life Insurance Companies   

AIG s Foreign Life Insurance companies (including ALICO)
    have had significant capital needs following publicity of AIG
    parent s liquidity issues and related credit ratings
    downgrades and reflecting the decline in the equity markets. AIG
    contributed $4.4 billion to the Foreign Life Insurance
    companies during 2008 ($4.0 billion of which was
    contributed using borrowings under the Fed Facility). In Taiwan,
    AIG contributed approximately $1.8 billion to Nan Shan in
    2008 as a result of the continued declines in the Taiwan equity
    market and foreign currency movements. AIG made capital
    contributions of $2.6 billion to support foreign life
    operations in Hong Kong and Japan, principally due to the steep
    decline in AIG s common stock price.

AIG believes that its Foreign Life Insurance subsidiaries have
    adequate capital to support their business plans through 2009;
    however, to the extent the investment portfolios of the Foreign
    Life Insurance companies continue to be adversely affected by
    market conditions, AIG may need to make additional capital
    contributions to these companies. For a discussion of AIG s
    potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity.

Domestic
    Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services
    Companies   

AIG s Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement
    Services companies have two primary liquidity needs: the funding
    of surrenders, and obtaining capital to offset statutory
    other-than-temporary impairment charges. At the current rate of
    surrenders, AIG believes that its Domestic Life Insurance and
    Domestic Retirement Services companies will have sufficient
    resources to meet these obligations. A substantial increase in
    surrender activity could, however, place stress on the liquidity
    of these companies and require asset sales or contributions from
    AIG.

During the year ended December 31, 2008 and through
    February 27, 2009, AIG contributed capital totaling
    $22.7 billion ($18.0 billion of which was contributed
    using borrowings under the Fed Facility) to certain of its
    Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services
    subsidiaries to replace a portion of the capital lost as a
    result of net realized capital losses (primarily resulting from
    other-than-temporary impairment charges). Further capital
    contributions may be required to the extent additional statutory
    net realized capital losses are incurred. For a discussion of
    AIG s potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity.

Financial
    Services   

AIG s major Financial Services operating subsidiaries
    consist of ILFC, AIGFP, AGF and AIGCFG. Traditional sources of
    funds considered in meeting the liquidity needs of these
    operations are generally no longer available. These sources
    included GIAs  issuance of long- and short-term debt,
    issuance of commercial paper, bank loans and bank credit
    facilities. However, AIGCFG has been able to retain a
    significant portion of customer deposits, providing a measure of
    liquidity.

ILFC   

ILFC s traditional source of liquidity had been collections
    of lease payments and borrowing in the public debt markets to
    fund aircraft purchases and to satisfy maturing debt. Additional
    liquidity is provided by the proceeds of aircraft sales.

50    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

In September 2008, ILFC was unable to borrow in the public debt
    markets, and therefore, ILFC borrowed the full $6.5 billion
    amount available under its credit facilities. ILFC was also
    accepted into the CPFF and had borrowed approximately
    $1.7 billion under the CPFF as of December 31, 2008.
    On January 21, 2009, however, S P downgraded
    ILFC s short-term credit rating and, as a result, ILFC lost
    access to the CPFF. The $1.7 billion ILFC had borrowed
    under the CPFF was due and paid on January 28, 2009. ILFC
    is currently seeking secured financing. ILFC has the capacity
    under its present facilities and indentures, to enter into
    secured financings in excess of $5.0 billion. If ILFC
    continues to be limited in its ability to use this capacity, AIG
    expects that these borrowings and cash flows from operations,
    which may include aircraft sales, will be inadequate to permit
    ILFC to meet its obligations for 2009. Therefore, AIG will need
    to provide support through additional asset sales or funding for
    the remaining amounts.

As a result of Moody s downgrade of ILFC s long-term
    debt rating, ILFC received notice under the provisions of the
    Export Credit Facilities to segregate security deposits and
    maintenance reserves related to aircraft funded under the
    facilities into separate accounts. ILFC had 90 days from
    the date of the notice to comply and, subsequent to
    December 31, 2008, ILFC segregated approximately
    $260 million of deposits and maintenance reserves. The
    amount of funds required to be segregated under the facility
    agreements fluctuates with the changes in the related deposits,
    maintenance reserves, and debt maturities. Further rating
    downgrades would impose additional restrictions under these
    facilities including the requirement to segregate rental
    payments and would require prior consent to withdraw funds from
    the segregated account.

AIGFP   

AIGFP had historically funded its operations through the
    issuance of notes and bonds, GIA borrowings and other structured
    financing transactions. AIGFP also obtained funding through
    repurchase agreements.

In the last half of 2008, AIGFP s access to its traditional
    sources of liquidity were significantly reduced and it relied on
    AIG Parent to meet most of its liquidity needs. AIGFP s
    asset backed commercial paper conduit, Curzon Funding LLC, was
    accepted into the CPFF with a total borrowing limit of
    $7.2 billion, and had approximately $6.8 billion
    outstanding at February 18, 2009. Separately, a structured
    investment vehicle sponsored, but not consolidated, by AIGFP,
    Nightingale Finance LLC, was also accepted into the CPFF with a
    borrowing limit of $1.1 billion. As of February 18,
    2009, this vehicle had approximately $1.1 billion
    outstanding under the CPFF.

AGF   

AGF s traditional source of liquidity has been collections
    of customer receivables and borrowing in the public markets.

In September 2008, AGF was unable to borrow in the public debt
    markets and drew down $4.6 billion, the full amount
    available, under its primary credit facilities. AGF anticipates
    that its primary source of funds to support its operations and
    repay its obligations will be customer receivable collections.
    In order to improve cash flow, AGF will limit its lending
    activities and manage its expenses. In addition, AGF is pursuing
    sales of certain of its finance receivables and seeking
    securitization financing. AIG expects that AGF s existing
    sources of funds will be inadequate to meet its debt and other
    obligations for 2009. Therefore, AIG will need to provide
    support through additional asset sales or funding for the
    remaining amounts.

AIGCFG   

AIGCFG experienced significant deposit withdrawals in Hong Kong
    during September 2008. AIGCFG subsidiaries borrowed
    $1.6 billion from AIG in September and October of 2008 to
    meet these withdrawals and other cash needs. No further material
    funding was required during the remainder of the fourth quarter
    of 2008.

Since November of 2008, AIGCFG subsidiaries have been able to
    retain significant deposit balances as a result of the lowered
    perceived risk, as well as depository insurance support provided
    by various regulatory authorities in countries in which AIGCFG
    units operate.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    51 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG believes that the funding needs of AIGCFG have stabilized,
    but it is possible that renewed customer and counterparty
    concerns could substantially increase AIGCFG s liquidity
    needs in 2009. Through February 18, 2009, AIGCFG had
    entered into contracts to sell certain of its operations in
    Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines.

Asset
    Management   

Asset Management s principal cash requirements are to fund
    general working capital needs, investment commitments related to
    proprietary investments originally acquired for warehouse
    purposes, contractual capital commitments, proprietary
    investments of AIG Global Real Estate and any liquidity
    mismatches in the Spread-Based Investment business. Requirements
    related to Institutional Asset Management are funded through
    general operating cash flows from management and performance
    fees, proceeds from events in underlying funds (capital calls to
    third parties, sale of portfolio companies, etc.) as well as
    intercompany funding provided by AIG. Accordingly, Institutional
    Asset Management s ability to fund certain of its needs may
    depend on advances from AIG under various intercompany borrowing
    facilities. Restrictions on these facilities would have adverse
    consequences on the ability of the business to satisfy its
    respective obligations. With respect to the Global Real Estate
    business, investing activities are also funded through
    third-party financing arrangements which are secured by the
    relevant properties.

The GIC and MIP programs are in run-off. AIG expects to fund its
    obligations under these programs through cash flows generated
    from invested assets (principal and interest) as well as sales
    of investments, primarily fixed maturity securities. However,
    illiquidity and diminished values within the investment
    portfolios may impair AIG s ability to sell the related
    program assets or sell such assets for a price adequate to
    settle the corresponding liabilities when they come due. In such
    a case, AIG parent would need to fund the payments.

52    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Debt  

Total debt was as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    53 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(a)   

In 2008, AIGFP borrowings are carried at fair value.  

(b)   

Includes borrowings of $6.8 billion, $6.6 billion
    and $1.7 billion for AIGFP (through Curzon Funding LLC,
    AIGFP s asset-backed commercial paper conduit), AIG Funding
    and ILFC, respectively, under the CPFF at December 31,
    2008.  

(c)   

Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are
    accounted at fair value.  

(d)   

Includes borrowings under Export Credit Facility of
    $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.  

(e)   

Represents commercial paper issued by a variable interest
    entity secured by receivables of A.I. Credit.  

54    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Long-Term
    Debt   

A roll forward of long-term debt, excluding debt of
    consolidated investments is as follows: 

(a)   

In 2008, AIGFP borrowings are carried at fair value.  

(b)   

Includes the change in fair value and cumulative effect of
    the adoption of FAS 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  (FAS 159).
    Also includes commitment fee and accrued compounding interest of
    $3.63 billion on the Fed Facility.  

AIG
    (Parent Company)   

AIG traditionally issued debt securities from time to time to
    meet its financing needs and those of certain of its
    subsidiaries, as well as to opportunistically fund the MIP. The
    maturities of the debt securities issued by AIG to fund the MIP
    are generally expected to be paid using the cash flows of assets
    held by AIG as part of the MIP portfolio. However, mismatches in
    the timing of cash inflows and outflows of the MIP, as well as
    shortfalls due to impairments of MIP assets, would need to be
    funded by AIG parent.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    55 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

On August 18, 2008, AIG sold $3.25 billion principal
    amount of senior unsecured notes in a
    Rule 144A/Regulation S offering which bear interest at
    a per annum rate of 8.25 percent and mature in 2018. The
    proceeds from the sale of these notes were used by AIGFP for its
    general corporate purposes, and the notes are included within
     AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable  in the
    preceding tables. AIG has agreed to use commercially reasonable
    efforts to consummate an exchange offer for the notes pursuant
    to an effective registration statement within 360 days of
    the date on which the notes were issued.

As of December 31, 2008, approximately $7.5 billion
    principal amount of senior notes were outstanding under
    AIG s medium-term note program, of which $3.2 billion
    was used for AIG s general corporate purposes,
    $893 million was used by AIGFP (included within  AIGFP
    matched notes bonds and payable  in the preceding tables)
    and $3.4 billion was used to fund the MIP. The maturity
    dates of these notes range from 2009 to 2052. To the extent
    considered appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to
    manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes.

As of December 31, 2008, the equivalent of
    $12.0 billion of notes were outstanding under AIG s
    Euro medium-term note program, of which $9.7 billion were
    used to fund the MIP and the remainder was used for AIG s
    general corporate purposes. The aggregate amount outstanding
    includes a $588 million loss resulting from foreign
    exchange translation into U.S. dollars, of which
    $0.1 million gain relates to notes issued by AIG for
    general corporate purposes and $588 million loss relates to
    notes issued to fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the
    currency exposure arising from its foreign currency denominated
    notes.

In May 2008, AIG raised a total of approximately
    $20 billion through the sale of
    (i) 196,710,525 shares of AIG common stock in a public
    offering at a price per share of $38;
    (ii) 78.4 million Equity Units in a public offering at
    a price per unit of $75; and (iii) $6.9 billion in
    unregistered offerings of junior subordinated debentures in
    three series. The Equity Units and junior subordinated
    debentures receive hybrid equity treatment from the major rating
    agencies under their current policies but are recorded as
    long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet. The Equity
    Units consist of an ownership interest in AIG junior
    subordinated debentures and a stock purchase contract obligating
    the holder of an equity unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to
    sell, a variable number of shares of AIG common stock on three
    dates in 2011 (a minimum of 128,944,480 shares and a
    maximum of 154,738,080 shares, subject to anti-dilution
    adjustments).

During 2007 and 2008, AIG issued an aggregate of $12.5 billion
    of junior subordinated debentures in U.S. dollars, British
    Pounds and Euros in eight series. In connection with each series
    of junior subordinated debentures, AIG entered into a
    Replacement Capital Covenant (RCC) for the benefit of the
    holders of AIG s 6.25 percent senior notes due 2036.
    The RCCs provide that AIG will not repay, redeem, or purchase
    the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures on or
    before a specified date, unless AIG has received qualifying
    proceeds from the sale of the replacement capital securities.

In October 2007, AIG borrowed a total of $500 million on an
    unsecured basis pursuant to a loan agreement with a third-party
    bank. The entire amount of the loan was repaid on
    September 30, 2008.

AIGFP  

Approximately $3.1 billion of AIGFP s debt maturities
    through December 31, 2009 are fully collateralized with
    assets backing the corresponding liabilities. However,
    mismatches in the timing of cash inflows on the assets and
    outflows with respect to the liabilities may require assets to
    be sold to satisfy maturing liabilities. Depending on market
    conditions and AIGFP s ability to sell assets at that time,
    proceeds from sales may not be sufficient to satisfy the full
    amount due on maturing liabilities. Any shortfalls would need to
    be funded by AIG parent.

ILFC  

ILFC has a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility for use in
    connection with the purchase of approximately 75 aircraft
    delivered through 2001. This facility was guaranteed by various
    European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rate varies from
    5.75 percent to 5.86 percent on these amortizing
    ten-year borrowings depending on the delivery date of the
    aircraft. At December 31, 2008, ILFC had $365 million
    outstanding under this facility. The debt is collateralized by a
    pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title
    to the aircraft financed under the facility.

56    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

ILFC has a similarly structured Export Credit Facility for up to
    a maximum of $3.6 billion for Airbus aircraft to be
    delivered through May 31, 2009. The facility becomes
    available as the various European Export Credit Agencies provide
    their guarantees for aircraft based on a forward-looking
    calendar, and the interest rate is determined through a bid
    process. The interest rates are either LIBOR based with spreads
    ranging from (0.04) percent to 0.90 percent or at fixed
    rates ranging from 4.2 percent to 4.7 percent. At
    December 31, 2008, ILFC had $2.1 billion outstanding
    under this facility. At December 31, 2008, the interest
    rate of the loans outstanding ranged from 2.51 percent to
    4.71 percent. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of
    shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the
    aircraft financed under the facility. Borrowings with respect to
    these facilities are included in ILFC s notes and bonds
    payable in the preceding table of borrowings.

At December 31, 2008, the total funded amount of
    ILFC s bank financings was $7.6 billion. The fundings
    mature through February 2012. The interest rates are
    LIBOR-based, with spreads ranging from 0.30 percent to
    1.625 percent. At December 31, 2008, the interest
    rates ranged from 2.15 percent to 4.36 percent. AIG
    does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of ILFC.

AGF   

As of December 31, 2008, notes and bonds aggregating
    $23.1 billion were outstanding with maturity dates ranging
    from 2009 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from
    0.23 percent to 9 percent. To the extent considered
    appropriate, AGF may enter into swap transactions to manage its
    effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes and bonds.

AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF but
    has provided a capital support agreement for the benefit of
    AGF s lenders under the AGF
     364-Day 
    Syndicated Facility. Under this support agreement, AIG has
    agreed to cause AGF to maintain (1) consolidated net worth
    of $2.2 billion and (2) an adjusted tangible leverage
    ratio of less than or equal to 8 to 1 at the end of each fiscal
    quarter.

Revolving
    Credit Facilities   

AIG, ILFC and AGF maintain committed, unsecured revolving credit
    facilities listed on the table below in order to support their
    respective commercial paper programs and for general corporate
    purposes. Some of the facilities, as noted below, contain a
     term-out option  allowing for the conversion by the
    borrower of any outstanding loans at expiration into one-year
    term loans.

Both ILFC and AGF have drawn the full amount available under
    their revolving credit facilities. AIG s syndicated
    facilities contain a covenant requiring AIG to maintain total
    shareholders  equity (calculated on a consolidated basis
    consistent with GAAP) of at least $50 billion at all times.
    If AIG fails to maintain this level of total shareholders 
    equity at any time, it will lose access to those facilities.
    Additionally, if an event of default occurs under those
    facilities, including AIG failing to maintain $50 billion
    of total shareholders  equity at any time, which causes the
    banks to terminate either of those facilities, then AIG may be
    required to collateralize approximately

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    57 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

$2.7 billion of letters of credit that AIG has obtained for
    the benefit of its insurance subsidiaries so that these
    subsidiaries may obtain statutory recognition of their
    intercompany reinsurance transactions.

(a)   

On October 5, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
    (LBHI), the parent company of Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB (LBB),
    filed for bankruptcy protection. LBB is a lender under
    AIG s 364-Day Syndicated Facility and 5-Year Syndicated
    Facility and had committed to provide $100 million and
    $42.5 million, respectively, under these facilities. While
    LBB is not included in the LBHI bankruptcy filing, AIG cannot be
    certain whether LBB would fulfill it commitments under these
    facilities.  

(b)   

Guaranteed by AIG. In September 2008, AIG Capital Corporation
    was removed as a borrower on the syndicated facilities.  

(c)   

AGF is an eligible borrower for up to $400 million
    only.  

Credit
    Ratings   

The cost and availability of unsecured financing for AIG and its
    subsidiaries are generally dependent on their short-and
    long-term debt ratings. The following table presents the credit
    ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of
    February 18, 2009. In parentheses, following the initial
    occurrence in the table of each rating, is an indication of that
    rating s relative rank within the agency s rating
    categories. That ranking refers only to the

58    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

generic or major rating category and not to the modifiers
    appended to the rating by the rating agencies to denote relative
    position within such generic or major category.

(a)   

Moody s appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the
    generic rating categories to show relative position within the
    rating categories.  

(b)   

S P ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or
    minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating
    categories.  

(c)   

Fitch ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or
    minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating
    categories.  

(d)   

AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products
    Corp. and AIG Funding.  

(e)   

Credit Watch Negative.  

(f)   

Credit Watch Developing.  

(g)   

Under Review for Possible Downgrade.  

(h)   

Under Review with Direction Uncertain.  

(i)   

Negative Outlook.  

(j)   

Rating Watch Evolving.  

These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating
    agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn
    at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or
    unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances.
    Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG management s request.
    This discussion of ratings is not a complete list of ratings of
    AIG and its subsidiaries.

Ratings triggers  have been defined by one
    independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the
    outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by
    one or more rating agencies.  Ratings triggers 
    generally relate to events that (i) could result in the
    termination or limitation of credit availability, or require
    accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination
    of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to
    post collateral for the benefit of counterparties.

A significant portion of AIGFP s GIAs, structured financing
    arrangements and financial derivative transactions include
    provisions that require AIGFP, upon a downgrade of AIG s
    long-term debt ratings, to post collateral or, with the consent
    of the counterparties, assign or repay its positions or arrange
    a substitute guarantee of its obligations by an obligor with
    higher debt ratings. Furthermore, certain downgrades of
    AIG s long-term senior debt ratings would permit either AIG
    or the counterparties to elect early termination of contracts.

The actual amount of collateral that AIGFP would be required to
    post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the
    aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make,
    depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding
    affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time
    of the downgrade. For the impact of a downgrade in AIG s
    credit ratings, see Item 1A. Risk Factors  
    Credit Ratings.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    59 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Contractual
    Obligations  

Contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity
    were as follows: 

(a)   

Excludes commercial paper and borrowings incurred by
    consolidated investments and includes hybrid financial
    instrument liabilities recorded at fair value.  

(b)   

Represents future loss and loss adjustment expense payments
    estimated based on historical loss development payment patterns.
    Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic
    amounts presented could be materially different from actual
    required payments.  

(c)   

Insurance and investment contract liabilities include various
    investment-type products with contractually scheduled
    maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain
    nature. Insurance and investment contract liabilities also
    include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant
    portion represents policies and contracts that do not have
    stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any
    future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts
    (i) AIG is currently not making payments until the
    occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability,
    (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship, or
    (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other
    non-scheduled event out of AIG s control. AIG has made
    significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted
    cash flows of these contractual policy benefits, which
    assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates,
    expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates,
    offset by expected future deposits and premiums on inforce
    policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the
    periodic amounts presented could be materially different from
    actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table
    are undiscounted and therefore exceed the future policy benefits
    and policyholder contract deposits included in the balance
    sheet.  

(d)   

Represents guaranteed maturities under GICs.  

(e)   

Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of
    $3.4 billion, the timing of which is uncertain.  

(f)   

The majority of AIGFP s credit default swaps require
    AIGFP to provide credit protection on a designated portfolio of
    loans or debt securities. At December 31, 2008, the fair
    value derivative liability was $5.9 billion relating to
    AIGFP s super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap
    portfolio, net of amounts realized in extinguishing derivative
    obligations. Due to the long-term maturities of these credit
    default swaps, AIG is unable to make reasonable estimates of the
    periods during which any payments would be made.  

60    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Off
    Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments  

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in
    total, and by remaining maturity were as follows: 

(a)   

Primarily liquidity facilities provided in connection with
    certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond
    obligations.  

(b)   

Primarily AIG SunAmerica construction guarantees connected to
    affordable housing investments.  

(c)   

Includes commitments to invest in limited partnerships,
    private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to
    purchase and develop real estate in the United States and
    abroad.  

(d)   

Includes options to acquire aircraft. Excludes commitments
    with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution
    for 2009 is expected to be approximately $600 million for
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    plans.  

Arrangements
    with Variable Interest Entities    

AIG enters into various arrangements with variable interest
    entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business. AIG s
    insurance companies are involved with VIEs primarily as passive
    investors in debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity
    interests issued by VIEs. Through its Financial Services and
    Asset Management operations, AIG has participated in
    arrangements that included designing and structuring entities,
    warehousing and managing the collateral of the entities,
    entering into insurance transactions with VIEs. Interest holders
    in the VIEs generally have recourse only to the assets and cash
    flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to AIG, except, in
    limited circumstances, when AIG has provided a guarantee to the
    VIEs  interest holders.

Under FIN 46(R), AIG consolidates a VIE when it is the
    primary beneficiary of the entity. The primary beneficiary is
    the party that either (i) absorbs a majority of the
    VIE s expected losses; (ii) receives a majority of the
    VIE s expected residual returns; or (iii) both. For a
    further discussion of AIG s involvement with VIEs, see
    Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Outlook  

General disruptions in the global equity and credit markets and
    the liquidity issues at AIG have negatively affected the results
    of each of AIG s operating segments as discussed below.

General
    Insurance  

Commercial Insurance has been generally successful in retaining
    clients, although some have reduced the number of lines or
    limits of coverage due in part to concerns over AIG s
    financial strength. In addition, the number

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    61 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

of new business opportunities has declined since September of
    2008. Senior management has spent considerable time since
    September 2008 meeting with policyholders and brokers explaining
    the financial strength of Commercial Insurance and the
    protections afforded policyholders by insurance regulations.
    However, net premiums written declined 22 percent in the
    fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period of 2007. The
    retention of existing business continues to be moderately lower
    than in the comparable prior year period, however retention
    levels have improved in the early part of 2009 compared to the
    fourth quarter of 2008.

Overall, rates in Commercial Insurance are essentially flat in
    early 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2008. The
    stabilization of rates is an improvement from the fourth quarter
    of 2008 and reflects the offsetting effects of downward pressure
    on premiums from the current recessionary environment and the
    recent introduction of new competitors in the marketplace and
    the upward pressure on premiums from the combination of
    investment and underwriting losses suffered by the commercial
    insurance industry.

AIG expects that the current recessionary environment will
    continue to affect UGC s operating results for the
    foreseeable future and will result in a significant operating
    loss for UGC in 2009.

Foreign General Insurance has been successful in retaining
    business in its property, casualty and consumer lines. During
    the critical first quarter 2009 renewal period with more than
    30 percent of the annual production expected, business
    retention was strong in Foreign General Insurance s top
    three regions, U.K./Ireland, Europe and the Far East, with the
    significant majority of clients maintaining their relationship
    with AIG. However, there was some expected
     de-risking  among customers to further diversify
    their portfolios as well as a slight reduction in new business
    production. Because the three regions represent the majority of
    business, recent business activity is comparable to 2008.
    Overall, gross premiums to date for 2009 were essentially flat
    from the comparable period of 2008 as measured in original
    currency.

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services  

AIG expects that the aforementioned events and AIG s
    previously announced asset disposition plan will continue to
    adversely affect Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    operating results in 2009, specifically net investment income,
    deferred policy acquisition costs and sales inducement asset
    (SIA) amortization and net realized capital gains (losses). In
    addition, AIG s liquidity issues have affected certain
    operations through higher surrender activity, primarily in the
    U.S. domestic retirement fixed annuity business and foreign
    investment-oriented and retirement products in Japan and Asia.
    While surrender levels have declined from their peaks in
    mid-September of 2008, they continue to be higher than historic
    levels in certain products and countries and AIG expects them to
    continue to be volatile.

These uncertainties, together with rating agency downgrades,
    have resulted in significantly reduced levels of new sales
    activity, particularly among products and markets where ratings
    are critical. Sales of investment-oriented and retirement
    services products have also declined due to the general decline
    in the equity markets. New sales activity is expected to remain
    at lower levels until the uncertainties relating to AIG are
    resolved.

Financial
    Services  

AIGFP began unwinding its businesses and portfolios during the
    fourth quarter of 2008, and these activities are expected to
    continue at least through 2009. In connection with these
    activities, AIGFP has disaggregated its portfolio of existing
    transactions into a number of separate  books , and
    has developed a plan for addressing each book, including each
    book s risks, risk mitigation options, monitoring metrics
    and certain implications of various potential outcomes. Each
    plan has been reviewed by a steering committee whose membership
    includes senior executives of AIG. The plans are subject to
    change as efforts progress and as conditions in the financial
    markets evolve, and they contemplate, depending on the book in
    question, alternative strategies, including sales, assignments
    or other transfers of positions, terminations of positions,
     and/or 
    run-offs of positions in accordance with existing terms.
    Execution of the plans is overseen by a transaction approval
    process involving increasingly senior members of AIGFP s
    and AIG s respective management groups as specific actions
    entail greater liquidity and revenue consequences. Successful
    execution of the plans is subject, to varying degrees depending
    on the transactions of a given book, to market conditions and,
    in many circumstances, counterparty negotiation and agreement.

62    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

As a consequence of its wind-down strategy, AIGFP is entering
    into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current
    portfolio, reduce risk and hedge the currency, interest rate and
    other market risks associated with its affiliated businesses.
    AIGFP has already reduced the size of certain portions of its
    portfolio, including effecting a substantial reduction in credit
    derivative transactions in respect of multi-sector CDOs (see
    Termination of $62 billion of CDS below), a sale of its
    commodity index business, termination of its activities as a
    foreign exchange prime broker, sale and other disposition of the
    large majority of its energy/infrastructure investment
    portfolio. Due to the long-term duration of many of AIGFP s
    derivative contracts and to the complexity of AIGFP s
    portfolio, AIG expects that an orderly wind-down will take a
    substantial period of time. The cost of executing the wind-down
    will depend on many factors, many of which are not within
    AIGFP s control, including market conditions, AIGFP s
    access to markets via market counterparties, the availability of
    liquidity and the potential implications of further rating
    downgrades.

AIGCFG experienced significant deposit withdrawals in Hong Kong
    during September 2008. The inability of AIGCFG to access its
    traditional sources of funding resulted in AIG lending
    $1.6 billion to subsidiaries of AIGCFG in September and
    October of 2008. Additional funding during the remainder of the
    fourth quarter of 2008 was not material. AIG has entered into
    contracts to sell certain finance operations in Taiwan, Thailand
    and the Philippines.

Asset
    Management  

Distressed global markets have reduced the value of assets under
    management, translating to lower base management fees and
    reduced carried interest revenues. Tight credit markets have put
    pressure on the commercial and residential real estate markets,
    which has caused values in certain geographic locations to fall,
    resulting in impairment charges on real estate held for
    investment purposes.

Liquidity issues at AIG parent and lower asset performance as a
    result of challenging market conditions have contributed to the
    loss of institutional and retail clients, as well as higher
    redemptions from some of AIG subsidiaries  managed hedge
    and mutual funds, have prevented AIG subsidiaries from launching
    new funds and will continue to adversely affect Asset Management
    results.

Within the Spread-Based Investment business, distressed markets
    have resulted in significant loss of invested asset value, and
    AIG expects such losses to continue through mid 2009. In
    addition, AIG does not expect to issue any additional debt to
    fund the Matched Investment Program for the foreseeable future.

As AIG implements the proposed transactions with the NY Fed and
    United States Department of the Treasury described above and in
    Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG
    expects to incur significant additional restructuring related
    charges, such as accelerated amortization of the pre-paid
    commitment asset and, potentially, the write-off of intangible
    assets. Further, if AIG continues to incur losses in its
    businesses, AIG may need to write off material amounts of
    goodwill.

Results
    of Operations  

Consolidated
    Results   

Fourth quarter 2008 net loss 

Due to continued severe market deterioration and charges related
    to ongoing restructuring activities, AIG incurred a substantial
    net loss of $61.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.
    This loss resulted primarily from the following:

net realized capital losses arising from other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $18.6 billion ($13.0 billion
    after tax) reflecting severity losses primarily related to CMBS,
    other structured securities and securities of financial
    institutions due to rapid and severe market valuation declines
    where the impairment period was not deemed temporary; losses
    related to the change in AIG s intent and ability to hold
    to recovery certain securities; and issuer-specific credit
    events, including charges associated with investments in
    financial institutions;

net realized capital losses of $2.4 billion
    ($1.7 billion after tax) related to certain securities
    lending activities which were deemed to be sales due to reduced
    levels of collateral provided by counterparties;

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    63 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

net realized capital losses of $2.3 billion
    ($1.6 billion after tax) related to declines in fair values
    of RMBS for the month of October prior to the sale of these
    securities to ML II;

net realized capital losses of $1.7 billion
    ($1.2 billion after tax) primarily related to foreign
    exchange transactions and derivatives activity;

unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s super senior
    credit default swap portfolio totaling $6.9 billion ($4.5
    billion after tax); a credit valuation loss of $7.8 billion
    ($5.1 billion after tax) representing the effect of changes
    in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFP s assets and
    liabilities; and losses primarily from winding down of
    AIGFP s businesses and portfolios of $1.5 billion
    ($1.0 billion after tax);

losses on hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment
    under FAS 133 of $3.3 billion ($2.2 billion after
    tax) largely due to the significant decline in
    U.S. interest rates, resulting in a decrease in the fair
    value of the derivatives, which primarily economically hedge
    AIG s debt. To a lesser extent, the strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar, mainly against the British Pound and Euro
    decreased the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives
    economically hedging AIG s non-U.S. dollar denominated
    debt and foreign exchange transactions;

interest expense associated with the Fed Facility of
    $10.6 billion ($6.9 billion after tax), including
    accelerated amortization of the prepaid commitment fee of
    $6.6 billion ($4.3 billion after tax);

goodwill impairment charges of $3.6 billion, principally
    related to the General Insurance and Domestic Life Insurance and
    Domestic Retirement Services businesses; and

the inability to obtain a tax benefit for a significant amount
    of the losses incurred during the quarter as reflected in the
    addition to the valuation allowance of $17.6 billion, and
    other discrete items of $3.4 billion.

AIG s consolidated statements of income (loss) for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as
    follows: 

64    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Premiums
    and Other Considerations  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Premiums and other considerations increased in 2008 compared to
    2007 primarily due to:

growth in Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    of $3.3 billion resulting from increased production and
    favorable foreign exchange rates;

an increase of $1.7 billion in Foreign General Insurance
    due to growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new
    business from both established and new distribution channels, a
    decrease in the use of reinsurance and favorable foreign
    exchange rates; and

growth in Domestic Life Insurance due to an increase in sales of
    payout annuities sales and growth in life insurance business in
    force.

These increases were partially offset by a decline in Commercial
    Insurance premiums of $1.5 billion primarily from lower
    U.S. workers  compensation premiums attributable to
    declining rates, lower employment levels and increased
    competition, as well as a decline in other casualty lines of
    business.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to
    2006 primarily due to:

growth in Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    of $2.4 billion as a result of increased life insurance
    production, growing group products business in Europe, improved
    sales in Thailand and the favorable effect of foreign exchange
    rates;

an increase of $1.8 billion in Foreign General Insurance
    primarily due to growth in new business from both established
    and new distribution channels, including Central Insurance Co.
    Ltd. Taiwan acquired in late 2006; and

growth in Domestic Life Insurance primarily due an increase in
    life insurance business in force and payout annuity premiums.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    65 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Net
    Investment Income  

The components of consolidated net investment income were as
    follows: 

*  

Includes net investment income from securities lending
    activities, representing interest earned on securities lending
    invested collateral offset by interest expense on securities
    lending payable.  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Net investment income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to:

losses from partnership and mutual fund investments reflecting
    significantly weaker market conditions in 2008 than in 2007;

significant policyholder investment income and trading losses
    for Life Insurance   Retirement Services (together,
    policyholder trading losses), which were $7.0 billion in
    2008 compared to policyholder trading gains of $2.9 billion
    for 2007, reflecting equity market declines. Policyholder
    trading gains (losses) are offset by a change in incurred policy
    losses and benefits expense. Policyholder trading gains (losses)
    generally reflect the trends in equity markets, principally in
    Japan and Asia;

losses related to AIG s economic interest in ML II and
    investment in ML III of approximately $1.1 billion in
    2008; and

the effect of increased levels of short-term investments, for
    liquidity purposes.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to
    higher levels of interest income on fixed maturity securities,
    an increase in income from partnerships as well as higher
    policyholder trading gains. Partially offsetting these increases
    were trading account losses related to certain
    investment-oriented products in the U.K. for Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services. The policyholder
    trading gains for 2007 generally reflected the trends in equity
    markets, principally in Japan and Asia.

66    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Net realized capital losses increased $51.9 billion in 2008
    compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in
    other-than-temporary impairment charges of $46.7 billion.
    The increase in other-than-temporary impairment charges included
    the following significant items:

an increase in severity losses primarily related to certain
    RMBS, other structured securities and securities of financial
    institutions due to rapid and severe market valuation declines
    where the impairment period was not deemed temporary;

losses related to the change in AIG s intent and ability to
    hold to recovery certain securities, primarily those held as
    collateral in the securities lending program;

issuer-specific credit events, including charges associated with
    investments in financial institutions; and

adverse projected cash flows on certain structured securities
    impaired under Emerging Issues Task Force Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests that Continue to
    be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets 
    (EITF 99

-20) and related interpretive guidance.

These other-than-temporary impairment charges were partially
    offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange transactions
    due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar. See
    Investments   Portfolio Review  
    Other-Than-Temporary Impairments.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, in connection with certain
    securities lending transactions, AIG met the requirements of
    sale accounting under FAS 140 because collateral received
    was insufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of
    purchasing replacement assets for the securities lent to various
    counterparties. Accordingly, AIG recognized a loss of
    $2.4 billion on deemed sales of these securities. Also, net
    realized capital losses in 2008 included a loss of
    $2.3 billion, incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, on
    RMBS prior to their purchase by ML II. See
    Investments   Securities Lending Activities and
    Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

AIG recorded net realized capital losses in 2007 compared to net
    realized capital gains in 2006 primarily due to an increase in
    other-than-temporary impairment charges. Other-than-temporary
    impairment charges included an

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    67 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

increase in severity losses primarily related to certain RMBS
    and other structured securities, resulting from the disruption
    in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets.

Unrealized
    Market Valuation Losses on AIGFP Super Senior Credit Default
    Swap Portfolio  

The unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s super
    senior credit default swap portfolio increased in 2008 compared
    to 2007 due to significant widening in credit spreads and the
    downgrades of RMBS and CDO securities by rating agencies in 2008
    driven by the credit concerns resulting from
    U.S. residential mortgages and the severe liquidity crisis
    affecting the markets. In connection with the termination of
    $62.1 billion net notional amount of CDS transactions
    related to multi-sector CDOs purchased in the ML III
    transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. paid
    $32.5 billion through the surrender of collateral
    previously posted (net of $2.5 billion received pursuant to
    the shortfall agreement), of which $2.5 billion (included
    in Other income (loss)) is related to certain 2a-7 Put
    transactions written on multi-sector CDOs purchased by
    ML III. These losses did not affect income, as unrealized
    market valuation losses were already recorded in income. See
    Capital Markets Results and Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Valuation of Level 3 Assets and
    Liabilities and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Other
    Income (loss)  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Other Income (loss) decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily
    due to increased losses in Capital Markets of
    $13.7 billion, which includes a credit valuation adjustment
    of $9.1 billion on AIGFP s assets and liabilities
    which are measured at fair value. Asset Management other income
    decreased by $2.4 billion primarily as a result of lower
    partnership income related to the Spread-Based Investment
    Business reflecting weaker market conditions in 2008 and a
    decline in Institutional Asset Management revenues reflecting
    lower carried interest and losses on sales of real estate
    investments. These decreases were partially offset by increased
    rental revenues for ILFC, driven by a larger aircraft fleet and
    higher lease rates.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Other Income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to
    a $2 billion positive effect for AIGFP related to hedging
    activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment
    under FAS 133, increased Asset Management revenues
    primarily resulting from higher partnership income and carried
    interest as well as increased rental revenues for ILFC, driven
    by a larger aircraft fleet and higher lease rates.

Policyholder
    Benefits and Claims Incurred  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Policyholder benefits and claims incurred decreased in 2008
    compared to 2007 due to a reduction in incurred policy losses
    and benefits expense for Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services of $7.0 billion in 2008 compared to an increase of
    $2.9 billion in 2007 related to policyholder trading gains
    (losses) as discussed above in net investment income. These
    losses more than offset increased claims and claims adjustment
    expenses of $5.6 billion in AIG s General Insurance
    operations, which reflected increased catastrophe losses of
    $1.5 billion principally from hurricanes Ike and Gustav and
    a $1.8 billion increase in Mortgage Guaranty claims
    incurred, reflecting the continued deterioration of the
    U.S. housing market.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Policyholder benefits and claims incurred increased in 2007
    compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in policyholder
    benefits and claims incurred of $3.2 billion in Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services due to losses and
    benefits arising from policyholder trading losses of
    $886 million discussed above in Net Investment Income, a
    $1.1 billion increase in Foreign General Insurance
    resulting from the June 2007 U.K. floods, an increase in severe
    but non-catastrophic losses and higher frequency of non-severe
    losses, and a $1.1 billion increase in Mortgage Guaranty
    claims incurred resulting from the deterioration of the
    U.S. housing market.

68    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Policy
    Acquisition and Other Insurance Expenses  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses increased in
    2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to a $3.6 billion
    increase in General Insurance expenses and a $3.7 billion
    increase in Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    expenses. General Insurance expenses increased primarily due to
    goodwill impairment charges of $2.0 billion, including
    $1.2 billion from Commercial Insurance and
    $696 million from Personal Lines, respectively, primarily
    related to goodwill arising from acquisitions. Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services expenses increased
    primarily due to $1.2 billion of goodwill impairment
    charges related to Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic
    Retirement Services of $402 million and $817 million,
    respectively. Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    expenses also increased as a result of the effect of foreign
    exchange, growth in the business and the effect of FAS 159
    implementation.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses increased in
    2007 compared to 2006 primarily due costs associated with
    realigning certain legal entities through which Foreign General
    Insurance operates and the increased significance of Foreign
    General consumer lines business, which have higher acquisition
    costs. Life Insurance   Retirement Services expenses
    increased principally as a result of the effect of growth in the
    Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services business,
    increased DAC amortization related to the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    higher operating expenses related to remediation activities and
    the effect of foreign exchange.

Interest
    Expense  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Interest expense increased in 2008 compared to 2007 on higher
    levels of borrowings. Interest expense in 2008 included
    $11.4 billion of interest expense on the Fed Facility which
    was comprised of $9.3 billion of amortization of the
    prepaid commitment fee asset associated with the Fed Facility,
    including accelerated amortization of the prepaid commitment
    asset of $6.6 billion in connection with the restructuring
    of the Fed Facility and $1.9 billion of accrued compounding
    interest. Interest expense in 2008 also included interest on the
    debt and Equity Units from the dates of issuance in May 2008.
    The above amounts are reflected in the Other category in
    AIG s segment results.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Interest expense increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting
    higher levels of borrowings, including interest on the junior
    subordinated debt issued in March and June 2007, borrowings used
    to fund the MIP and borrowings used for general corporate
    purposes.

Restructuring
    expenses and related asset impairment and other
    expenses  

As described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, AIG commenced an organization-wide restructuring
    plan under which some of its businesses will be divested, some
    will be held for later divestiture, and some businesses will be
    prepared for potential subsequent offerings to the public. In
    connection with activities under this plan, AIG recorded
    restructuring and separation expenses of $758 million in
    2008, consisting of severance expenses of $89 million,
    contract termination expenses of $27 million, asset
    write-downs of $51 million, other exit expenses of
    $140 million and separation expenses of $451 million.

Other exit expenses primarily include consulting and other
    professional fees related to (i) asset disposition
    activities, (ii) AIG s debt and capital restructuring
    program with the NY Fed and the United States Department of
    the Treasury and (iii) unwinding of AIGFP s businesses
    and portfolios.

Severance and separation expenses described above include
    retention awards of $492 million to key employees to
    maintain ongoing business operations and facilitate the
    successful execution of the restructuring and asset disposition
    plan. This amount also includes retention awards to AIGFP s
    employees under its retention program, which was established in
    the first quarter of 2008 due to the declining market
    environment, to manage and

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    69 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

unwind its complex businesses. The total amount expected to be
    incurred related to these retention programs is approximately
    $1.0 billion.

For the year ended December 31, 2008, $139 million,
    $68 million, $287 million and $69 million of the
    restructuring and separation expenses have been recorded within
    the General Insurance, Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services, Financial Services and Asset Management segments,
    respectively, while $195 million has been recorded in Other
    operations.

Total restructuring and separation expenses could have a
    material affect on future results of operations and cash flows.

Other
    Expenses  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

Other Expenses increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due
    to goodwill impairment charges of $791 million in 2008 in
    the Financial Services segment related to the Consumer Finance
    and Capital Markets businesses, which resulted from the downturn
    in the housing markets, the credit crisis and the intent to
    unwind AIGFP s businesses and portfolios. In addition,
    other expenses in 2008 increased compared to 2007 due to higher
    AGF provisions for finance receivable losses of
    $674 million in response to the higher levels of
    delinquencies in AGF s finance receivable portfolio.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

Other Expenses increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due
    to increases in MIP and compensation related expenses in Asset
    Management, increases in depreciation expense on flight
    equipment in line with the increase in the size of the aircraft
    fleet and an increase in AGF s provision for finance
    receivable losses of $206 million.

Income
    tax expense (benefit)  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison    

The effective tax rate on the pre-tax loss for 2008 was
    7.7 percent. The effective tax rate was lower than the
    statutory rate of 35 percent due primarily to
    $26.1 billion of deferred tax expense recorded during 2008,
    comprising $5.5 billion of deferred tax expense
    attributable to the potential sale of foreign businesses and a
    $20.6 billion valuation allowance to reduce its deferred
    tax asset to an amount that AIG believes is more likely than not
    to be realized.

Realization of the deferred tax asset depends on AIG s
    ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate
    character within the carryforward periods of the jurisdictions
    in which the net operating losses and deductible temporary
    differences were incurred. AIG assessed its ability to realize
    its deferred tax asset of $31.9 billion and concluded a
    $20.6 billion valuation allowance was required to reduce
    the deferred tax asset to an amount AIG believes is more likely
    than not that to be realized. See Note 20 to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding
    deferred tax asset realization.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison    

The effective tax rate declined from 30.1 percent in 2006
    to 16.3 percent in 2007, primarily due to the unrealized
    market valuation losses on AIGFP s super senior credit
    default swap portfolio and other-than-temporary impairment
    charges. These losses, which are taxed at a U.S. tax rate
    of 35 percent and are included in the calculation of income
    tax expense, reduced AIG s overall effective tax rate. In
    addition, other tax benefits, including tax exempt interest and
    effects of foreign operations were proportionately larger in
    2007 than in 2006 due to the decline in pre-tax income in 2007.
    Furthermore, tax deductions taken in 2007 for SICO compensation
    plans for which the expense had been recognized in prior years
    also reduced the effective tax rate in 2007.

70    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Segment
    Results  

The following table summarizes the operations of each
    operating segment. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. 

General
    Insurance Operations  

AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries are multiple line
    companies writing substantially all lines of property and
    casualty insurance and various personal lines both domestically
    and abroad and constitute the AIG Property Casualty Group
    (formerly known as Domestic General Insurance) and the Foreign
    General Insurance Group.

As previously noted, AIG believes it should present and discuss
    its financial information in a manner most meaningful to its
    financial statement users. Accordingly, in its General Insurance
    business, AIG uses certain regulatory measures, where AIG has
    determined these measurements to be useful and meaningful.

A critical discipline of a successful general insurance business
    is the objective to produce profit from underwriting activities
    taking into account costs of capital. AIG views underwriting
    results to be critical in the overall evaluation of performance.

Statutory underwriting profit is derived by reducing net
    premiums earned by net losses and loss expenses incurred and net
    expenses incurred. Statutory accounting generally requires
    immediate expense recognition and

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    71 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

ignores the matching of revenues and expenses as required by
    GAAP. That is, for statutory purposes, expenses (including
    acquisition costs) are recognized immediately, not over the same
    period that the revenues are earned. Thus, statutory expenses
    exclude changes in DAC.

GAAP provides for the recognition of certain acquisition
    expenses at the same time revenues are earned, the accounting
    principle of matching. Therefore, acquisition expenses are
    deferred and amortized over the period the related net premiums
    written are earned. DAC is reviewed for recoverability, and such
    review requires management judgment. The most comparable GAAP
    measure to statutory underwriting profit is income before income
    taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principles. A table reconciling statutory
    underwriting profit to income before income taxes, minority
    interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principles is contained in footnote (b) to the following
    table. See also Critical Accounting Estimates herein and
    Notes 1 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIG, along with most property and casualty insurance companies,
    uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as
    measures of underwriting performance. The loss ratio is the sum
    of claims and claims adjustment expenses divided by net premiums
    earned. The expense ratio is underwriting expenses divided by
    net premiums earned. These ratios are relative measurements that
    describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the cost of
    losses and expenses, respectively. A combined ratio of less than
    100 percent indicates an underwriting profit and over
    100 percent indicates an underwriting loss.

Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based
    upon the terms of the underlying policies. The net unearned
    premium reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are
    generally earned ratably over the policy period. Thus, the net
    unearned premium reserve is not fully recognized in income as
    net premiums earned until the end of the policy period.

The underwriting environment varies from country to country, as
    does the degree of litigation activity. Regulation, product type
    and competition have a direct effect on pricing and consequently
    on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and general
    insurance ratios.

General
    Insurance Results    

General Insurance operating income is comprised of statutory
    underwriting profit (loss), changes in DAC, net investment
    income and net realized capital gains and losses. Operating
    income (loss), as well as net premiums written, net premiums
    earned, net investment income and net realized capital gains
    (losses) and statutory ratios were as follows: 

72    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    73 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(b)   

Statutory underwriting profit (loss) is a measure that U.S.
    domiciled insurance companies are required to report to their
    regulatory authorities. The following table reconciles statutory
    underwriting profit (loss) to operating income (loss) for
    General Insurance for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006:  

74    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies. The
    following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates on the growth of General Insurance net
    premiums written: 

*  

Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period.  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

General Insurance reported an operating loss in 2008 compared to
    operating income in 2007 due to declines in underwriting results
    and net investment income as well as increased net realized
    capital losses. The combined ratio for 2008 increased to 109.1,
    an increase of 19.0 points compared to the same period in
    2007, primarily due to an increase in the loss ratio of
    11.3 points. The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded
    in 2008 was 6.8 points higher than the loss ratio for
    accident year 2007 recorded in 2007. Catastrophe-related losses
    were $1.8 billion and $276 million in 2008 and 2007,
    accounting for 3.4 points of the increase in the accident
    year loss ratio. Increases in Mortgage Guaranty losses accounted
    for 2.8 points of the increase in the 2008 accident year
    loss ratio. The loss ratio also increased for other property and
    casualty lines due to premium rate decreases and changes in loss
    trends. Development from prior years increased incurred losses
    by $155 million in 2008 and decreased incurred losses by
    $606 million in 2007. The expense ratio increased primarily
    due to goodwill impairment charges of $2.0 billion in

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    75 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

2008, principally attributable to goodwill arising from the
    acquisitions of HSB, 21st Century, and Transatlantic as well as
    the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve of
    $222 million in 2008 related to UGC s second-lien
    business. Also contributing to the operating loss was Personal
    Lines, primarily resulting from the goodwill impairment charge
    noted above.

General Insurance net premiums written declined
    $1.8 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, including a decline
    in U.S. workers  compensation net premiums of
    $1.7 billion due to declining rates, lower employment
    levels and increased competition. Declining rates in other
    casualty lines within Commercial Insurance and a reduction in
    Personal Lines net premiums earned were largely offset by growth
    in Foreign General Insurance from both established and new
    distribution channels and the positive effect of changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates.

See Results of Operations   Consolidated Results for
    further discussion on Net investment income and Realized capital
    gains (losses).

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

General Insurance operating income increased in 2007 compared to
    2006 due to growth in net investment income, partially offset by
    a decline in underwriting profit and net realized capital
    losses. The 2007 combined ratio increased to 90.1, an increase
    of 0.9 points compared to 2006, primarily due to an
    increase in the loss ratio of 1.0 points. The loss ratio
    for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007 was 2.3 points
    higher than the loss ratio for accident year 2006 recorded in
    2006. Increases in Mortgage Guaranty losses accounted for a
    2.1 point increase in the 2007 accident year loss ratio.
    The higher 2007 accident year loss ratio was partially offset by
    favorable development on prior years, which reduced incurred
    losses by $606 million and $53 million in 2007 and
    2006, respectively. Additional favorable loss development of
    $50 million (recognized in consolidation and related to
    certain asbestos settlements) reduced overall incurred losses.

Commercial
    Insurance Results   

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Commercial Insurance operating income decreased in 2008 compared
    to 2007, primarily due to significant declines in underwriting
    results and net investment income, as well as significantly
    greater net realized capital losses in 2008. The decline in
    underwriting results is also reflected in the combined ratio,
    which increased 21.6 points in 2008 compared to 2007. The
    loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 included a
    6.0 point effect related to catastrophe losses, and was
    13.3 points higher than the loss ratio for accident year
    2007 recorded in 2007. Prior year development and increases in
    the loss reserve discount reduced incurred losses by
    $169 million and $555 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, accounting for an additional 1.6 point increase in
    the combined ratio.

Commercial Insurance net premiums written declined in 2008
    compared to 2007 primarily due to declines in premiums from
    workers  compensation and other casualty lines. Declines in
    other casualty lines were due to declining rates and reduced
    activity in the construction and transportation industries.
    Management and Professional liability lines declined due to
    increased competition, particularly in the fourth quarter of
    2008.

Commercial Insurance expense ratio increased to 26.8 in 2008
    compared to 18.4 in 2007. The most significant driver of the
    increase was goodwill impairment charges principally
    attributable to goodwill arising from the acquisition of HSB,
    representing 5.4 points of the increase in the expense
    ratio. Additionally, the provision for uncollectible premiums
    and other provisions increased approximately $178 million
    due to economic conditions, compared to a reduction of
    $18 million of expenses in 2007 as provisions established
    in 2006 were released, accounting for 0.9 points of the increase
    in the expense ratio. The remaining increase is due to the
    decline in net premiums earned and mix of business. While AIG is
    aggressively pursuing expense reductions, the impact of expense
    savings will lag the decline in net written premiums.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Commercial Insurance operating income increased in 2007 compared
    to 2006 primarily due to growth in both net investment income
    and underwriting profit. The improvement is also reflected in
    the combined ratio, which declined 4.9 points in 2007
    compared to 2006, primarily due to an improvement in the loss
    ratio of 3.3 points. Catastrophe-related losses increased the
    2007 loss ratio by 0.4 points. The loss ratio for accident year
    2007 recorded

76    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the loss ratio recorded in
    2006 for accident year 2006. The loss ratio for accident year
    2006 has improved in each quarter since September 30, 2006.
    As a result, the 2007 accident year loss ratio is 2.8 points
    higher than the 2006 accident year loss ratio, reflecting
    reductions in 2006 accident year losses recorded through
    December 31, 2007. Prior year development reduced incurred
    losses by $390 million in 2007 and increased incurred
    losses by $175 million in 2006, accounting for 2.4 points
    of the improvement in the loss ratio.

Commercial Insurance expense ratio decreased to 18.4 in 2007
    compared to 20.1 in 2006, primarily due to the 2006 charge
    related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal
    control over certain balance sheet reconciliations that
    accounted for 2.1 points of the decline. The decline was
    partially offset by increases in operating expenses for
    marketing initiatives and operations.

Mortgage
    Guaranty Results   

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Mortgage Guaranty operating loss increased in 2008 compared to
    2007 due to declining housing values, increasing mortgage
    foreclosures and the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve
    on the second-lien business. The domestic first-lien operating
    loss increased by $1.0 billion in 2008 to $1.1 billion
    compared to 2007 while the second-lien operating loss of
    $1.2 billion in 2008, which includes the recognition of a
    $222 million premium deficiency reserve, increased
    $656 million compared to 2007.

During 2008, UGC tightened underwriting standards and increased
    premium rates for its first-lien business and ceased insuring
    second-lien business as of September 30, 2008. During the
    fourth quarter of 2008, UGC ceased insuring new private student
    loan business and suspended insuring new business throughout its
    European operations. All of these actions were in response to
    the deteriorating market conditions and resulted in a
    significant decline in new business written during the second
    half of 2008.

Net premiums written declined in 2008 compared to 2007. First-
    and second-lien business net premiums written grew moderately,
    primarily due to increased persistency year over year. However,
    new insurance written, which is a measure of the amount of new
    insurance added to the portfolio, decreased 45 percent,
    82 percent and 42 percent for first- and second-lien
    business and international business, respectively, during 2008
    compared to 2007. These declines are primarily due to UGC s
    tightening of underwriting guidelines and rate increases during
    the year and the actions described above.

Claims and claims adjustment expenses increased
    $1.8 billion compared to 2007 primarily due to the
    continuing decline in the domestic housing market. Domestic
    first-lien losses incurred of $1.8 billion increased
    159 percent compared to the same period in 2007 resulting
    in a 2008 first-lien loss ratio of 276 compared to a 2007 loss
    ratio of 122. Second-lien losses incurred of $1.2 billion
    increased 61 percent compared to the same period in 2007.
    UGC strengthened international loss reserves by $96 million
    during the fourth quarter of 2008. Increases in both domestic
    and international losses incurred resulted in an overall loss
    ratio for Mortgage Guaranty (excluding the second-lien business
    in run-off) of 257 in 2008 compared to 111 in 2007. UGC s
    ability to cede losses to captive insurers will be reduced in
    future periods primarily due to captive reinsurers exceeding the
    limits of the reinsurance agreements.

Historically, Mortgage Guaranty included all mortgage insurance
    risks in a single premium deficiency test because the manner of
    acquiring, servicing and measuring the profitability of all
    Mortgage Guaranty contracts was consistent. Due to the run-off
    in the second-lien business, management no longer measures the
    profitability for the second-lien business in the same manner as
    that for Mortgage Guaranty s ongoing businesses, and will
    no longer report loss ratio or expense ratio information for the
    second-lien business. As a result, UGC performs a separate
    premium deficiency calculation for the second-lien business.

At December 31, 2008, the present value of expected
    second-lien future losses and expenses (net of expected future
    recoveries) was $1.4 billion, and was offset by the present
    value of expected second-lien future premiums of
    $499 million and the already established liability for
    unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense of
    $701 million, resulting in a premium deficiency reserve of
    $222 million. The second-lien risk in force at
    December 31, 2008 totaled $2.9 billion with 530
    thousand second-lien policies in force compared to
    $3.8 billion of risk in force and 644 thousand
    policies in force at December 31, 2007. The second-lien
    business is expected to run-off over the next 10 to
    12 years. Risk in force represents the full amount of
    second-lien loans insured reduced for contractual

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    77 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

aggregate loss limits on certain pools of loans, usually
    10 percent of the full amount of loans insured in each
    pool. Mortgage Guaranty may record net losses on this business
    in future periods because the timing of future delinquencies may
    precede recognition of future premiums in an amount in excess of
    the premium deficiency reserve.

UGC s domestic mortgage risk in force totaled
    $30.1 billion as of December 31, 2008 and the
     60-day 
    delinquency ratio was 7.5 percent (based on number of
    policies, consistent with mortgage industry practice) compared
    to domestic mortgage risk in force of $29.8 billion and a
    delinquency ratio of 3.7 percent at December 31, 2007.
    Approximately 84 percent of the domestic mortgage risk is
    secured by first-lien, owner-occupied properties.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Mortgage Guaranty incurred an operating loss in 2007 compared to
    operating income in 2006 as the deteriorating
    U.S. residential housing market adversely affected losses
    incurred for both the domestic first- and second-lien
    businesses. Domestic first- and second-lien losses incurred
    increased 362 percent and 346 percent respectively,
    compared to 2006, resulting in loss ratios of 122.0 and 357.0,
    respectively, in 2007. Increases in domestic losses incurred
    resulted in an overall loss ratio of 168.6 in 2007 compared to
    47.2 in 2006. Prior year development reduced incurred losses in
    2007 by $25 million compared to a reduction of
    $115 million in 2006, which accounted for 10.2 points of
    the increase in the loss ratio.

Net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006
    primarily due to growth in the international markets, accounting
    for 58 percent of the increase in net premiums written. In
    addition, the increased use of mortgage insurance for credit
    enhancement as well as better persistency resulted in an
    increase in domestic first-lien premiums.

The expense ratio in 2007 was 21.2, down from 23.4 in 2006 as
    premium growth offset the effect of increased expenses related
    to UGC s international expansion and the employment of
    additional operational resources in the second-lien business.

Foreign
    General Insurance Results   

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Foreign General Insurance operating income decreased in 2008
    compared to 2007 due to a decrease in statutory underwriting
    profit and change in DAC of $724 million, an increase in
    net realized capital losses reflecting
    other-than-temporary-impairment charges related to the
    deterioration in the fixed income markets (see  
    Results of Operations   Consolidated
     Results-Net 
    Realized Gains (losses) for further discussion), and a decrease
    in net investment income reflecting lower mutual fund and
    partnership income related to poor performance in the equity
    markets (see Results of Operations   Consolidated
    Results   Net Investment Income for further
    discussion).

Net premiums written increased 10 percent (5 percent
    in original currency) in 2008 compared to 2007 due to growth in
    commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from
    established and new distribution channels, including the late
    2007 acquisition of W rttembergische und Badische
    Versicherungs   AG (W Ba) in Germany. New
    business in the commercial lines in the U.K. and Europe and
    decreases in the use of reinsurance increased net premiums
    earned, but were partially offset by declines in premium rates.
    Growth in personal accident business in Latin America, South
    East Asia and Europe also contributed to the increase, however,
    premiums from the Lloyd s Syndicate Ascot continued to
    decline.

The loss ratio in 2008 increased 5.1 points compared to 2007 due
    to:

The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 was 3.2
    points higher than the loss ratio recorded in 2007 for accident
    year 2007 primarily due to continued rate erosion and increased
    lower level claims frequency.

Loss development on prior accident years increased the loss
    ratio by 1.9 points.

78    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Foreign General Insurance operating income decreased in 2007
    compared to 2006, due primarily to decreases in net investment
    income and statutory underwriting profit. Net investment income
    in 2006 included income of $424 million from unit
    investment trusts (UCITS) adjustments. Underwriting profit
    decreased due to losses from the June 2007 U.K. floods, an
    increase in severe but non-catastrophic losses and higher
    frequency of non-severe losses compared to 2006, partially
    offset by higher favorable loss development on prior accident
    years.

Net premiums written increased 14 percent (10 percent
    in original currency) in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting
    growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business
    from both established and new distribution channels, including
    Central Insurance Co. Ltd. in Taiwan acquired in late 2006. Net
    premiums written for commercial lines increased due to new
    business in the U.K. and Europe and decreases in the use of
    reinsurance, partially offset by declines in premium rates.
    Growth in consumer lines in Latin America, Asia and Europe also
    contributed to the increase. Net premiums written for the
    Lloyd s syndicate Ascot (Ascot) and Aviation declined due
    to rate decreases and increased market competition.

The 2007 loss ratio increased a total of 1.7 points compared to
    2006. Losses of $90 million from the June 2007 U.K. floods
    added 0.7 points to the loss ratio and higher severe but
    non-catastrophic losses and higher loss frequency for personal
    accident business in Japan and personal lines business in Asia
    and Latin America added 1.6 points to the loss ratio. Partially
    offsetting these increases was favorable loss development on
    prior accident years of $286 million in 2007 compared to
    $183 million in 2006, which decreased the loss ratio by 0.6
    points.

The 2007 expense ratio increased 1.3 points compared to 2006.
    This increase reflected the cost of realigning certain legal
    entities through which Foreign General Insurance operates and
    the increased significance of consumer lines of business, which
    have higher acquisition costs. These factors contributed 0.7
    points to the 2007 expense ratio.

Liability
    for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
    expense    

The following table presents the components of the General
    Insurance gross liability for unpaid claims and claims
    adjustment expense (loss reserves) by major lines of business on
    a statutory annual statement basis:* 

*  

Presented by lines of business pursuant to statutory
    reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association
    of Insurance Commissioners.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    79 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Reserves for
     non-U.S. domiciled 
    companies are carried in the International line of business. As
    a result of restructuring of certain foreign operations in 2008,
    reserves for the International line of business included amounts
    formerly reported in other lines of business.

AIG s gross liability for unpaid claims and claims
    adjustment expense represents the accumulation of estimates of
    ultimate losses, including estimates for incurred but not yet
    reported reserves (IBNR) and loss expenses. The methods used to
    determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting
    reserves are continually reviewed and updated. Any adjustments
    resulting therefrom are currently reflected in operating income.
    Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of
    future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that
    loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in
    trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that
    increase previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as
    unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening.
    Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate
    cost are referred to as favorable development.

Estimates for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss
    adjustment expense reserves are based on notices of mortgage
    loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been
    incurred but have not been reported by loan servicers, based
    upon historical reporting trends. Mortgage Guaranty establishes
    reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for
    each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon past
    experience regarding certain loan factors such as age of the
    delinquency, cure rates, dollar amount of the loan and type of
    mortgage loan. Because mortgage delinquencies and claims
    payments are affected primarily by macroeconomic events, such as
    changes in home price appreciation or depreciation, interest
    rates and unemployment, the determination of the ultimate loss
    cost requires a high degree of judgment. AIG believes it has
    provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans.
    Consistent with industry practice, AIG does not establish a
    reserve for insured loans that are not currently delinquent, but
    that may become delinquent in future periods.

At December 31, 2008, General Insurance net loss reserves
    increased $3.17 billion from 2007 to $72.46 billion.
    The net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by
    reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable
    reinsurance and applicable discount for future investment income.

The following table classifies the components of the General
    Insurance net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
    expense by business unit: 

Discounting
    of Reserves   

At December 31, 2008, AIG s overall General Insurance
    net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of
    $2.57 billion, including tabular and non-tabular
    calculations. The tabular workers  compensation discount is
    calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the
     1979-81 
    Decennial Mortality Table. The non-tabular workers 
    compensation discount is calculated separately for companies
    domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the
    statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies,
    the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the
    companies  own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies,
    the statute has specified discount factors for accident years
    2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate
    and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and
    subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and
    investment yields of the companies. Certain other liability
    occurrence and products liability occurrence business in AIRCO
    that was written by Commercial Insurance is discounted based on
    the yield of United States Department of the Treasury securities
    ranging from one to twenty years and the Commercial Insurance
    payout pattern for this business. The discount is comprised of
    the following: $733 million   tabular discount
    for workers  compensation in Commercial

80    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Insurance; $1.67 billion   non-tabular discount
    for workers  compensation in Commercial Insurance; and,
    $170 million   non-tabular discount for other
    liability occurrence and products liability occurrence in AIRCO
    for Commercial Insurance business. Since 1998 AIRCO has assumed
    on a quota share basis certain general liability and products
    liability business written by Commercial Insurance, and the
    reserves for this business are carried on a discounted basis by
    AIRCO.

Results
    of the Reserving Process   

AIG believes that the General Insurance net loss reserves are
    adequate to cover General Insurance net losses and loss expenses
    as of December 31, 2008. While AIG regularly reviews the
    adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance
    that AIG s ultimate loss reserves will not develop
    adversely and materially exceed AIG s loss reserves as of
    December 31, 2008. In the opinion of management, such
    adverse development and resulting increase in reserves is not
    likely to have a material adverse effect on AIG s
    consolidated financial condition, although it could have a
    material adverse effect on AIG s consolidated results of
    operations for an individual reporting period. See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors   Casualty Insurance and Underwriting
    Reserves.

The following table presents the reconciliation of net loss
    reserves: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    81 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following tables summarize development, (favorable) or
    unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior
    years (other than accretion of discount): 

*  

Represents the effect of settlements of certain asbestos
    liabilities.  

82    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

In determining the loss development from prior accident years,
    AIG conducts analyses to determine the change in estimated
    ultimate loss for each accident year for each profit center. For
    example, if loss emergence for a profit center is different than
    expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the
    indicated effect such emergence would have on the reserves of
    that profit center. In some cases, the higher or lower than
    expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate
    loss estimate for the accident years in question, and no
    adjustment would be made to the profit center s reserves
    for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower
    than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either
    favorable or unfavorable, than the difference between the actual
    and expected loss emergence. Such additional analyses were
    conducted for each profit center, as appropriate, in 2008 to
    determine the loss development from prior accident years for
    2008. As part of its reserving process, AIG also considers
    notices of claims received with respect to emerging issues, such
    as those related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market.

2008
    Net Loss Development   

In 2008, net loss development from prior accident years was
    adverse by approximately $118 million, including
    approximately $339 million of favorable development
    relating to loss sensitive business in the first three months of
    2008 (which was offset by an equal amount of negative earned
    premium development), and excluding approximately
    $317 million from accretion of loss reserve discount.
    Excluding both the favorable development relating to loss
    sensitive business and accretion of loss reserve discount, net
    loss development from prior accident years in 2008 was adverse
    by approximately $457 million. The overall adverse
    development of $118 million consisted of approximately
    $1.75 billion of favorable development from accident years
    2004 through 2007 offset by approximately $1.87 billion of
    adverse loss development from accident years 2003 and prior. The
    adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior was
    primarily related to excess casualty business within Commercial
    Insurance; this business accounted for approximately
    $1.25 billion of the adverse development from accident
    years 2003 and prior. The favorable development from accident
    years 2004 through 2007 included approximately $590 million
    in favorable development from business written by Lexington
    Insurance Company, including healthcare, catastrophic casualty,
    casualty and program businesses. Financial Services divisions
    within Commercial Insurance, including D O and related
    management liability business, contributed approximately
    $430 million to the favorable development from accident
    years 2004 through 2007, relating primarily to D O, and
    related management liability business from accident years 2004
    and 2005. The adverse development from accident years 2003 and
    prior included approximately $200 million related to claims
    involving MTBE, a gasoline additive, primarily on excess
    casualty business within Commercial Insurance from accident
    years 2000 and prior. In addition, the excess casualty adverse
    development reflect continued emergence of latent claims such as
    construction defect, product aggregate, and pharmaceutical
    related exposures, as well as higher than expected large loss
    activity from these accident years. AIG s exposure to these
    latent exposures was reduced after 2002 due to significant
    changes in policy terms and conditions as well as underwriting
    guidelines. (See Net Loss Development by Class of Business
    below). Other segments throughout AIG also contributed to the
    adverse development from accident year 2003 and prior, including
    approximately $215 million relating to Transatlantic.
    Mortgage Guaranty contributed approximately $177 million of
    overall adverse development in 2008, with $159 million
    relating to accident year 2007. See Year-to-Date Mortgage
    Guaranty Results   2008 and 2007 Comparison above.

2007
    Net Loss Development   

In 2007, net loss development from prior accident years was
    favorable by approximately $656 million, including
    approximately $88 million of adverse development from
    Transatlantic; and excluding approximately $327 million
    from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding
    Transatlantic, as well as accretion of discount, net loss
    development in 2007 from prior accident years was favorable by
    approximately $744 million. The overall favorable
    development of $656 million consisted of approximately
    $2.12 billion of favorable development from accident years
    2004 through 2006, partially offset by approximately
    $1.43 billion of adverse development from accident years
    2002 and prior and $37 million of adverse development from
    accident year 2003. In 2007, most classes of AIG s business
    continued to experience favorable development for accident years
    2004 through 2006. The majority of the adverse development from
    accident years 2002 and prior was related to development from
    excess casualty and primary workers  compensation business
    within Commercial Insurance and from Transatlantic. The
    development from accident year 2003 was primarily related to
    adverse development from excess casualty and primary
    workers  compensation business within Commercial Insurance
    offset by favorable development from most

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    83 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

other classes of business. The overall favorable development of
    $656 million included approximately $305 million
    pertaining to the D O and related management liability
    classes of business within Commercial Insurance, consisting of
    approximately $335 million of favorable development from
    accident years 2003 through 2006, partially offset by
    approximately $30 million of adverse development from
    accident years 2002 and prior. The overall favorable development
    of $656 million also included approximately
    $300 million of adverse development from primary
    workers  compensation business within Commercial Insurance.

2006
    Net Loss Development   

In 2006, net loss development from prior accident years was
    favorable by approximately $53 million, including
    approximately $198 million in net adverse development from
    asbestos and environmental reserves resulting from the updated
    ground-up analysis of these exposures in the fourth quarter of
    2006; approximately $103 million of adverse development
    pertaining to the major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005; and
    $181 million of adverse development from Transatlantic; and
    excluding approximately $300 million from accretion of loss
    reserve discount. Excluding the fourth quarter asbestos and
    environmental reserve increase, catastrophes and Transatlantic,
    as well as accretion of discount, net loss development in 2006
    from prior accident years was favorable by approximately
    $535 million. The overall favorable development of
    $53 million consisted of approximately $2.30 billion
    of favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2005,
    partially offset by approximately $2.25 billion of adverse
    development from accident years 2002 and prior. In 2006, most
    classes of AIG s business continued to experience favorable
    development for accident years 2003 through 2005. The adverse
    development from accident years 2002 and prior reflected
    development from excess casualty, workers  compensation,
    excess workers  compensation, and post-1986 environmental
    liability classes of business, all within Commercial Insurance,
    from asbestos reserves within Commercial Insurance and Foreign
    General Insurance, and from Transatlantic.

Net
    Loss Development by Class of Business   

The following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the
    development in 2008, 2007 and 2006 for those classes of business
    that experienced significant prior accident year developments
    during the three-year period. See Asbestos and Environmental
    Reserves below for a further discussion of asbestos and
    environmental reserves and development.

Excess Casualty:   Excess Casualty reserves
    experienced significant adverse loss development in 2008,
    following relatively minor adverse development in 2006 and 2007.
    However, all three years exhibited significant adverse
    development from accident years 2002 and prior. The increase in
    loss costs resulted primarily from medical inflation, which
    increased the economic loss component of tort claims, advances
    in medical care, which extended the life span of severely
    injured claimants, and larger jury verdicts, which increased the
    value of severe tort claims. An additional factor affecting
    AIG s excess casualty experience in recent years has been
    the exhaustion of underlying primary policies for products
    liability coverage and for homebuilders. This has led to
    increased loss emergence relating to claims involving exhaustion
    of underlying product aggregates and increased construction
    defect-related claims activity on AIG s excess and umbrella
    policies. Many excess casualty policies were written on a
    multi-year basis in the late 1990s, which limited AIG s
    ability to respond to emerging market trends as rapidly as would
    otherwise be the case. In subsequent years, AIG responded to
    these emerging trends by increasing rates and implementing
    numerous policy form and coverage changes. This led to a
    significant improvement in experience beginning with accident
    year 2001. In 2007 and 2008, a significant portion of the
    adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior also
    related to latent exposures, including pharmaceutical exposures
    as well as the construction defect and product aggregate related
    exposures noted above. AIG s exposure to these latent
    exposures was sharply reduced after 2002 due to significant
    changes in policy terms and conditions as well as underwriting
    guidelines. Another contributor to the adverse development
    during 2006 through 2008 is that actual loss development for
    other large losses for accident years 1998 and subsequent have
    emerged at higher than expected levels as compared to the loss
    emergence pattern exhibited from earlier accident years. This
    has caused significant additional development for accident years
    1998 to 2002, and to a lesser extent 2003. In 2008, this
    phenomenon also caused some adverse development for accident
    year 2004; however the accident year results for accident years
    2003 and 2004 both remain very favorable.

For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
    updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to
    construction defect-related claims. AIG s actuaries
    determined that no significant changes in the

84    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development
    in 2007 was adverse by approximately $75 million, a minor
    amount for this class of business. However, AIG continued to
    experience adverse development in this class for accident years
    2002 and prior, amounting to approximately $450 million in
    2007. In addition, loss reserves developed adversely for
    accident year 2003 by approximately $100 million in 2007
    for this class. The loss ratio for accident year 2003 remained
    very favorable for this class and had been relatively stable
    over the past several years. Favorable development in 2007 for
    accident years 2004 through 2006 largely offset the adverse
    development from accident years 2003 and prior. A significant
    portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and
    prior related to the latent exposures described above.

For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
    updated the separate review for accounts with significant
    exposure to construction defect-related claims in order to
    assist the actuaries in determining the proper reserve for this
    exposure. AIG s actuaries determined that no significant
    changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year
    loss development in 2006 was adverse by approximately
    $100 million, a relatively minor amount for this class of
    business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse
    development for this class for accident years prior to 2003.

For the year-end 2008 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
    again updated its review of accounts with significant exposure
    to construction defect-related claims. In response to the
    continued upward developments on these claims, and based on an
    updated analysis of this development, AIG increased the reserves
    by an additional $75 million beyond the increases
    identified in the claims review. In response to the continued
    adverse development of product aggregate related claims during
    2007 and 2008, AIG s actuaries conducted a special analysis
    of product aggregate-related claims development, resulting in an
    increase in the IBNR reserve for this exposure of
    $175 million. In response to the high level of
    pharmaceutical related claim emergence during 2007 and 2008, AIG
    claims staff reviewed the remaining exposure, and based on this
    review an additional reserve of $10 million was
    established. In response to the much greater than expected
    actual loss emergence for other large losses for accident years
    1998 and subsequent during 2007 and 2008, AIG s actuaries
    increased the loss development factor assumptions for this
    business, resulting in a further increase of approximately
    $200 million in loss reserves for this class. In total, the
    specific increases in reserves related to these items increased
    the excess casualty reserves by approximately $460 million
    during 2008, of which $370 million was recognized in
    AIG s fourth quarter 2008 results. In the first three
    months of 2008, AIG also recognized approximately
    $200 million of losses relating to MTBE, a gasoline
    additive, which primarily related to excess casualty business
    from accident years 2000 and prior. While the various
    adjustments described above were intended to respond
    appropriately to the recent adverse trends in loss experience,
    excess casualty remains a highly volatile class of business and
    there cannot be any assurance that further adjustments to
    assumptions in the loss reserve process for this class of
    business will not be necessary.

Loss reserves pertaining to the excess casualty class of
    business are generally included in the other liability
    occurrence line of business, with a small portion of the excess
    casualty reserves included in the other liability claims made
    line of business, as presented in the table above.

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of
    Business:   AIG experienced an insignificant amount
    of favorable development in 2006 for the D O and related
    management liability class of business, followed by significant
    favorable development during 2007 and 2008. The favorable
    development throughout the three-year period related primarily
    to accident years 2004 and 2005, and to a lesser extent accident
    years 2003 and 2006. Loss cost trends for D O and related
    management liability classes of business were adverse in
    accident years 2002 and prior due to a variety of factors,
    including an increase in frequency and severity of corporate
    bankruptcies; the increase in the frequency of financial
    restatements; the sharp rise in market capitalization of
    publicly traded companies; and the increase in the number of
    initial public offerings. The 2003 through 2006 period was
    marked by a significant reduction in claims related to these
    factors; thus the expected loss ratios initially established for
    these accident years have developed favorably, particularly for
    2004 and 2005. Beginning in accident year 2007, claims relating
    to the credit crisis have resulted in increased overall claim
    activity, and accident year 2007 reserves developed adversely by
    a relatively insignificant amount during 2008. AIG utilizes
    ground up claims projections by AIG claims staff as a benchmark
    to select the loss reserves for this business; these projections
    are updated annually.

For the year-end 2008 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
    took into account the continued favorable loss emergence for
    accident years 2006 and prior. They determined that, in order to
    respond to the significant favorable loss emergence during 2007
    and 2008, greater weight should be applied to the improving loss
    experience for

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    85 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

accident years 2006 and prior. Loss reserve selections therefore
    gave increased weight to the improved experience and less weight
    to the ground-up claim projections for these accident years, as
    the experience has continued to improve relative to the claim
    benchmark that was originally established for these accident
    years. For accident year 2007, the claim projections include
    claims relating to the credit crisis. The recognition of these
    projections resulted in a significant increase in loss reserves
    for some D O subclasses. However this was partially offset
    by favorable loss development for other subclasses that were
    significantly less affected by the credit crisis. The overall
    development for accident year 2007 was thus only a modest
    increase in loss reserves. The reserves established for accident
    year 2008 reflect AIG s expectation of increased claim
    activity relating to the credit crisis. Given the uncertainty of
    the ultimate development from claims relating to the credit
    crisis in accident years 2007 and 2008, there is a greater than
    normal potential variation in the loss ratios for these accident
    years. The increased responsiveness to the improving loss trends
    for accident years 2006 and prior resulted in approximately
    $225 million of favorable loss development in the fourth
    quarter of 2008 for this business, primarily in accident years
    2004 and 2005.

For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
    determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were
    required. Prior accident year reserve development in 2007 was
    favorable by approximately $305 million, due primarily to
    favorable development from accident years 2004 and 2005, and to
    a lesser extent 2003 and 2006. AIG s actuaries continued to
    benchmark the loss reserve indications to the
     ground-up 
    claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of
    business. For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, the
     ground-up 
    claim projections included all accident years through 2006, and
    included stock options backdating-related exposures from
    accident year 2006.

For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
    determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were
    required. Prior accident year loss development in 2006 was
    favorable by approximately $20 million, an insignificant
    amount for these classes. AIG s actuaries continued to
    benchmark the loss reserve indications to the
     ground-up 
    claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of
    business. For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, the
     ground-up 
    claim projections included all accident years through 2005.

Loss reserves pertaining to D O and related management
    liability classes of business are included in the other
    liability claims made line of business, as presented in the
    table above.

Healthcare:   Healthcare business written by
    Commercial Insurance produced moderate favorable development in
    2006 and 2007 and significant favorable development in 2008.
    Healthcare loss reserves have benefited from favorable market
    conditions and an improved legal environment in accident years
    2002 and subsequent, following a period of adverse loss trends
    and market conditions that began in the mid 1990 s. For the
    year-end 2008 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
    responded to the consistently favorable experience observed
    during the latest three years by utilizing more responsive
    assumptions relating to loss development factors, loss trend
    factors, and expected loss ratios for this business. These
    modified assumptions resulted in approximately $140 million
    of additional favorable development that was recognized in the
    fourth quarter of 2008 for this business.

Overview
    of Loss Reserving Process   

The General Insurance loss reserves can generally be categorized
    into two distinct groups. One group is short-tail classes of
    business consisting principally of property, personal lines and
    certain casualty classes. The other group is long-tail casualty
    classes of business which includes excess and umbrella
    liability, D O, professional liability, medical
    malpractice, workers  compensation, general liability,
    products liability and related classes.

Short-Tail
    Reserves   

For operations writing short-tail coverages, such as property
    coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is
    generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for
    the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected
    loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve
    required for a class of property business might be expected to
    approximate 20 percent of the latest year s earned
    premiums, and this level of reserve would generally be
    maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current
    quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect
    changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure
    to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular
    class of business.

86    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Long-Tail
    Reserves   

Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses)
    for long-tail casualty classes of business is a complex process
    and depends on a number of factors, including the class and
    volume of business involved. Experience in the more recent
    accident years of long-tail casualty classes of business shows
    limited statistical credibility in reported net losses because a
    relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims
    and expenses and an even smaller percentage would be net losses
    paid. Therefore, IBNR would constitute a relatively high
    proportion of net losses.

AIG s carried net long-tail loss reserves are tested using
    loss trend factors that AIG considers appropriate for each class
    of business. A variety of actuarial methods and assumptions is
    normally employed to estimate net losses for long-tail casualty
    classes of businesses. These methods ordinarily involve the use
    of loss trend factors intended to reflect the annual growth in
    loss costs from one accident year to the next. For the majority
    of long-tail casualty classes of business, net loss trend
    factors approximated five percent. Loss trend factors reflect
    many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and
    policy forms, current and future estimates of monetary inflation
    and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards.
    These factors are periodically reviewed and adjusted, as
    appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon
    past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly
    considered in estimating the year to year growth in loss costs.

A number of actuarial assumptions are generally made in the
    review of reserves for each class of business. For longer-tail
    classes of business, actuarial assumptions generally are made
    with respect to the following:

Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss
    ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss
    ratio for prior accident years.

Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e.,
    accident year 2008 for the year-end 2008 loss reserve analysis)
    and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest
    accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the
    projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the
    loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other
    quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low-frequency,
    high-severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss
    ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent
    accident years.

Loss development factors which are used to project the reported
    losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally,
    the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident
    years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development
    factors for the subsequent accident years.

AIG records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its
    many General Insurance classes of business. The overall change
    in AIG s loss reserves is based on the sum of these classes
    of business changes. For most long-tail classes of business, the
    process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves
    determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of
    coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current
    quarter s net earned premium for that class of coverage to
    determine the current accident quarter s total estimated
    net incurred loss and loss expense. The change in loss reserves
    for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between
    the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described
    above, and the net paid losses and loss expenses in the quarter.
    Also any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident
    years, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss
    reserve for the current quarter.

Details
    of the Loss Reserving Process   

The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class
    of business is based on a variety of factors. These include, but
    are not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident
    year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; changes in
    coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; and actual and
    anticipated changes in external factors affecting results, such
    as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment.
    The current loss ratio for each class of business reflects input
    from actuarial, underwriting and claims staff and is intended to
    represent management s best estimate of the current loss
    ratio after reflecting all of the factors described above. At
    the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss
    ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios remain
    appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims
    experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual
    changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes
    in certain other factors that may

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    87 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the
    initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the
    loss ratio for current business is changed to reflect the
    revised assumptions.

A comprehensive annual loss reserve review is completed in the
    fourth quarter of each year for each AIG general insurance
    subsidiary. These reviews are conducted in full detail for each
    class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of
    hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is
    to confirm the appropriateness of the reserves carried by each
    of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIG s
    overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each class of
    business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most
    familiar with that class of business. In completing these
    detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required
    to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss
    development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also
    required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial
    methods to employ for each business class. Additionally, they
    must determine the appropriate segmentation of data from which
    the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately tested. In
    the course of these detailed reserve reviews a point estimate of
    the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these point estimates
    for each class of business for each subsidiary provides an
    overall actuarial point estimate of the loss reserve for that
    subsidiary. The ultimate process by which the actual carried
    reserves are determined considers both the actuarial point
    estimate and numerous other internal and external factors
    including a qualitative assessment of inflation and other
    economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in
    the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment,
    underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims
    handling. Loss reserve development can also be affected by
    commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements.

Actuarial
    Methods for Major Classes of Business   

In testing the reserves for each class of business, a
    determination is made by AIG s actuaries as to the most
    appropriate actuarial methods. This determination is based on a
    variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated
    with the class of business, such as frequency or severity. Other
    factors considered include the loss development characteristics
    associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available
    for the applicable class, and the applicability of various
    actuarial methods to the class. In addition to determining the
    actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss
    reserve groupings of data. For example, AIG writes a great
    number of unique subclasses of professional liability. For
    pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the
    profitability of each subclass individually. However, for
    purposes of estimating the loss reserves for professional
    liability, it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into
    larger groups. The greater degree of credibility in the claims
    experience of the larger groups may outweigh the greater degree
    of homogeneity of the individual subclasses. This determination
    of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully
    considered for each class of business. The segmentation and
    actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected
    to produce the most accurate estimate of the loss reserves.

Actuarial methods used by AIG for most long-tail casualty
    classes of business include loss development methods and
    expected loss ratio methods, including  Bornhuetter
    Ferguson  methods described below. Other methods considered
    include frequency/severity methods, although these are generally
    used by AIG more for pricing analysis than for loss reserve
    analysis. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss
    development patterns from prior accident years to project the
    reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident
    years. Loss development methods generally are most appropriate
    for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss
    development from one accident year to the next, and for which
    the components of the classes have similar development
    characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally
    not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and
    primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into
    the same class as excess casualty exposures. Expected loss ratio
    methods are generally utilized by AIG where the reported loss
    data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development
    methods, such as for new classes of business or for long-tail
    classes at early stages of loss development.

Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an
    expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of
    business to determine the loss reserves. For example, an
    expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned
    premium base of $10 million for a class of business would
    generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million.
    Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would
    result in the indicated loss reserve for this class.
     Bornhuetter Ferguson  methods are expected loss ratio
    methods for which the expected loss ratio is applied only to the
    expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a
    long-tail class of business for which only

88    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the
    end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be
    applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported.
    The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would
    be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the
    accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss
    expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the
    example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would
    be multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent
    would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million
    resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million.
    Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total
    ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million,
    the ultimate loss estimate under the  Bornhuetter
    Ferguson  method would be $7.3 million versus the
    $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method
    described above. Thus, the  Bornhuetter Ferguson 
    method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience
    to date for the class of business. Loss development methods
    generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience
    to date. In the example above, loss development methods would
    typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of
    $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million
    would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the
    ultimate losses.

A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond
    quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of
    business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly
    deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives
    full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio
    methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would
    continue to give more weight to the expected loss ratio, until
    enough evidence emerged for the expected loss ratio to be
    modified to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other
    hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of
    overreacting to changes in reported losses if in fact the loss
    experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence
    of large losses at the early stages of loss development could
    cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable
    or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later
    stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio
    methods such as  Bornhuetter Ferguson  have the
    advantage of properly recognizing large losses without
    extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported
    portion of the losses for the accident year. AIG s loss
    reserve reviews for long-tail classes typically utilize a
    combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio
    methods. Loss development methods are generally given more
    weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss
    experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are
    given more weight where the reported loss experience is less
    credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio
    methods require sufficient information to determine the
    appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally
    includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and
    rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which
    would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss
    cost trend or loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for
    the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or
    otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the
    next.

Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination
    of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each
    claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate
    number of claims for each accident year by the expected average
    severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for
    the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require
    a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity
    to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident
    years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual
    loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from
    prior accident years. Frequency/severity methods have the
    advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated
    more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if
    the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these
    methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience
    than other methods. However, for average severity to be
    predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous
    types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to
    the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work
    best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such
    as personal auto. AIG also utilizes these methods in pricing
    subclasses of professional liability. However, AIG does not
    generally utilize frequency/severity methods to test loss
    reserves, due to the general nature of AIG s reserves being
    applicable to lower frequency, higher severity commercial
    classes of business where average claim severity is volatile.

Excess Casualty:   AIG generally uses a
    combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio
    methods for excess casualty classes. Expected loss ratio methods
    are generally utilized for at least the three latest accident
    years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported
    losses. The loss experience is generally reviewed separately for
    lead umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the
    relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business.
    Automobile-related claims are generally reviewed separately from
    non-auto claims, due to the shorter-tail

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    89 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

nature of the automobile related claims. Claims relating to
    certain latent exposures such as construction defects or
    exhaustion of underlying product aggregate limits are reviewed
    separately due to the unique emergence patterns of losses
    relating to these claims. The expected loss ratios utilized for
    recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss
    ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss
    cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified. The
    estimated loss cost trend utilized in the year-end 2008 reviews
    averaged approximately five percent for excess casualty classes.
    Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized as the
    vast majority of reported claims do not result in a claim
    payment. In addition, the average severity varies significantly
    from accident year to accident year due to large losses which
    characterize this class of business, as well as changing
    proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment.

D O:   AIG generally utilizes a combination
    of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for
    D O and related management liability classes of business.
    Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two
    most recent accident years, whereas loss development methods are
    given more weight in more mature accident years. In addition to
    these traditional actuarial methods, AIG s actuaries
    utilize ground-up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff
    as a benchmark for determining the indicated ultimate losses for
    all accident years other than the most recent accident year. For
    the year-end 2008 loss reserve review, claims projections for
    accident years 2007 and prior were utilized. These classes of
    business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are
    characterized by low frequency and high severity. Thus, the
    claim projections can produce an overall indicator of the
    ultimate loss exposure for these classes by identifying and
    estimating all large losses. Frequency/severity methods are
    generally not utilized for these classes as the overall losses
    are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency.
    Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to
    accident year.

Workers  Compensation:   AIG generally
    utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent
    accident year. Expected loss ratio methods generally are given
    significant weight only in the most recent accident year.
    Workers  compensation claims are generally characterized by
    high frequency, low severity, and relatively consistent loss
    development from one accident year to the next. AIG is a leading
    writer of workers  compensation, and thus has sufficient
    volume of claims experience to utilize development methods. AIG
    does not believe frequency/severity methods are as appropriate,
    due to significant growth and changes in AIG s
    workers  compensation business over the years. AIG
    generally segregates California business from other business in
    evaluating workers  compensation reserves. Certain classes
    of workers  compensation, such as construction, are also
    evaluated separately. Additionally, AIG writes a number of very
    large accounts which include workers  compensation
    coverage. These accounts are generally priced by AIG actuaries,
    and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the
    pricing analysis may be utilized to record the initial estimated
    loss reserves for these accounts.

Excess Workers  Compensation:   AIG
    generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and
    expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are given
    the greater weight for mature accident years such as 2002 and
    prior. Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight
    for the more recent accident years. Excess workers 
    compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with
    loss emergence extending for decades. Therefore there is limited
    credibility in the reported losses for many of the more recent
    accident years. For the mature accident years, AIG s
    actuaries utilize claims projections provided by AIG claims
    staff to help determine the loss development factors for this
    class of business.

General Liability:   AIG generally uses a
    combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio
    methods for primary general liability or products liability
    classes. For certain classes of business with sufficient loss
    volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight
    for all but the most recent one or two accident years, whereas
    for smaller or more volatile classes of business, loss
    development methods may be given limited weight for the five or
    more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods
    would be utilized for the more recent accident years for these
    classes. The loss experience for primary general liability
    business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to
    provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. For
    example, primary claims made business is generally segregated
    from business written on an occurrence policy form.
    Additionally, certain subclasses, such as construction, are
    generally reviewed separately from business in other subclasses.
    Due to the fairly long-tail nature of general liability
    business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed
    individually, there is less credibility in the reported losses
    and increased reliance on expected loss ratio methods.
    AIG s actuaries generally do not utilize frequency/severity
    methods to test reserves for this business, due to significant
    changes and growth in AIG s general liability and products
    liability business over the years.

90    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Commercial Automobile Liability:   AIG generally
    utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent
    accident year for commercial automobile classes of business.
    Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant
    weight only in the most recent accident year. Frequency/severity
    methods are generally not utilized due to significant changes
    and growth in this business over the years.

Healthcare:   AIG generally uses a combination
    of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for
    healthcare classes of business. The largest component of the
    healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals
    and other healthcare facilities. Reserves for excess coverage
    are tested separately from those for primary coverage. For
    primary coverages, loss development methods are generally given
    the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident
    years, and are given some weight for all years other than the
    latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss
    methods are generally given all the weight for the latest three
    accident years, and are also given considerable weight for
    accident years prior to the latest three years. For other
    classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between
    loss development and expected loss ratio methods is utilized.
    The weights assigned to each method are those which are believed
    to result in the best combination of responsiveness and
    stability. Frequency/severity methods are sometimes utilized for
    pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in
    testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into
    larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the loss
    experience. The frequency/severity methods that are applicable
    in pricing may not be appropriate for reserve testing and thus
    frequency/severity methods are not generally employed in
    AIG s healthcare reserve analyses.

Professional Liability:   AIG generally uses a
    combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio
    methods for professional liability classes of business. Loss
    development methods are used for the more mature accident years.
    Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the
    more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for
    claims made classes and classes written on occurrence policy
    forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to
    provide an appropriate balance between credibility and
    homogeneity of the data. Frequency/severity methods are used in
    pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of
    professional liability; however, for loss reserve testing, the
    need to enhance credibility generally results in classes that
    are not sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity
    methods.

Catastrophic Casualty:   AIG utilizes expected
    loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic
    casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty
    or financial lines coverage which attaches in excess of very
    high attachment points; thus the claims experience is marked by
    very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited
    number of claims, loss development methods are not utilized. The
    expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions utilized
    are based upon the results of prior accident years for this
    business as well as for similar classes of business written
    above lower attachment points. The business is generally written
    on a claims made basis. AIG utilizes
     ground-up 
    claim projections provided by AIG claims staff to assist in
    developing the appropriate reserve.

Aviation:   AIG generally uses a combination of
    loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for
    aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long-tail in
    nature; however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a
    combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods
    are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the
    loss reserves. Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine
    the loss reserves for the latest accident year.
    Frequency/severity methods are not employed due to the high
    severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from
    year to year.

Personal Auto (Domestic):   AIG generally
    utilizes frequency/severity methods and loss development methods
    for domestic personal auto classes. For many classes of
    business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity
    methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and
    allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and
    comparisons to industry and other diagnostic metrics.

Fidelity/Surety:   AIG generally uses loss
    development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the
    latest accident year. Expected loss ratio methods are also given
    weight for the more recent accident years, and for the latest
    accident year they may be given 100 percent weight. For
    surety exposures, AIG generally uses the same method as for
    short-tail classes.

Mortgage Guaranty:   AIG tests mortgage guaranty
    reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an
    internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in
    the mortgage guaranty business. The claim

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    91 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of
    several categories of delinquency based on actual historical
    experience and is essentially a frequency/severity analysis for
    each category of delinquency. Additional reserve tests using
     Bornhuetter Ferguson  methods are also employed, as
    well as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force.
    Reserves are reviewed separately for each class of business to
    consider the loss development characteristics associated with
    the claims, the volume of claim data available for the
    applicable class and the applicability of various actuarial
    methods to the class.

Short-Tail Classes:   AIG generally uses either
    loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves
    for short-tail classes such as property coverages. Where a
    factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned
    premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined
    based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR
    for a class of property coverage might be expected to
    approximate 20 percent of the latest year s earned
    premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of
    emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other
    factors that could affect the adequacy of the IBNR factor being
    employed.

International:   Business written by AIG s
    Foreign General Insurance sub-segment includes both long-tail
    and short-tail classes of business. For long-tail classes of
    business, the actuarial methods utilized would be analogous to
    those described above. However, the majority of business written
    by Foreign General Insurance is short-tail, high frequency and
    low severity in nature. For this business, loss development
    methods are generally employed to test the loss reserves. AIG
    maintains a data base of detailed historical premium and loss
    transactions in original currency for business written by
    Foreign General Insurance, thereby allowing AIG actuaries to
    determine the current reserves without any distortion from
    changes in exchange rates over time. In testing the Foreign
    General Insurance reserves, AIG s actuaries segment the
    data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to
    determine an optimal balance between homogeneity and credibility.

Loss Adjustment Expenses:   AIG determines
    reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment
    expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial
    methods. The methods generally include development methods
    analogous to those described for loss development methods. The
    developments could be based on either the paid loss adjustment
    expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid
    losses, or both. Other methods include the utilization of
    expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses,
    based on actual experience from prior accident years or from
    similar classes of business. AIG generally determines reserves
    for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year
    ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the
    particular class of business. AIG generally determines reserves
    for other unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the
    ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid.
    This determination is generally done for all classes of business
    combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a
    percent of losses paid.

Catastrophes:   Special analyses are conducted
    by AIG in response to major catastrophes in order to estimate
    AIG s gross and net loss and loss expense liability from
    the events. These analyses may include a combination of
    approaches, including modeling estimates, ground-up claim
    analysis, loss evaluation reports from
     on-site 
    field adjusters, and market share estimates.

AIG s loss reserve analyses do not calculate a range of
    loss reserve estimates. Because a large portion of the loss
    reserves from AIG s General Insurance business relates to
    longer-tail casualty classes of business driven by severity
    rather than frequency of claims, such as excess casualty and
    D O, developing a range around loss reserve estimates would
    not be meaningful. Using the reserving methodologies described
    above, AIG s actuaries determine their best estimate of the
    required reserve and advise management of that amount. AIG then
    adjusts its aggregate carried reserves as necessary so that the
    actual carried reserves as of December 31 reflect this best
    estimate.

Volatility
    of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses   

As described above, AIG uses numerous assumptions in determining
    its best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The
    importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of
    business and accident year. If actual experience differs from
    key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is
    potential for significant variation in the development of loss
    reserves, particularly for long-tail casualty classes of
    business such as excess casualty, D O or workers 
    compensation. Set forth below is a sensitivity analysis that
    estimates the effect on the loss reserve position of using
    alternative loss trend or loss development factor assumptions
    rather than those actually used in determining AIG s best
    estimates in the year-end loss reserve analyses in 2008. The
    analysis addresses each major class of business for which a
    material deviation to AIG s overall reserve position is
    believed reasonably

92    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

possible, and uses what AIG believes is a reasonably likely
    range of potential deviation for each class. There can be no
    assurance, however, that actual reserve development will be
    consistent with either the original or the adjusted loss trend
    or loss development factor assumptions, or that other
    assumptions made in the reserving process will not materially
    affect reserve development for a particular class of business.

Excess Casualty:   For the excess casualty class
    of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately five
    percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from
    prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIG s
    judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends
    applicable to the year-end 2008 loss reserve review for excess
    casualty will range from negative five percent to positive
    15 percent, or approximately ten percent lower or higher
    than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2008
    reserve review. A ten percent change in the assumed loss cost
    trend for excess casualty would cause approximately a
    $2.4 billion increase or a $1.6 billion decrease in
    the net loss and loss expense reserve for this class of
    business. It should be emphasized that the ten percent
    deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations
    that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to
    reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual
    loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several
    years, including amounts below the negative five percent cited
    above, whereas actual loss cost trends in the late 1990s ran
    well into the double digits for several years, including amounts
    greater than the 15 percent cited above. Thus, there can be
    no assurance that loss trends will not deviate by more than ten
    percent. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the
    excess casualty class of business due the long-tail nature of
    the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years.

For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss
    development factors are also a key assumption. After evaluating
    the historical loss development factors from prior accident
    years since the early 1990s, in AIG s judgment, it is
    reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will
    range from approximately 4.4 percent below those actually
    utilized in the year-end 2008 reserve review to approximately
    6.4 percent above those factors actually utilized. If the
    loss development factor assumptions were changed by
    4.4 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively, the net
    loss reserves for the excess casualty class would decrease by
    approximately $900 million under the lower assumptions or
    increase by approximately $1.5 billion under the higher
    assumptions. Generally, actual historical loss development
    factors are used to project future loss development. However
    there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns
    will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate
    by more than the amounts illustrated above. Moreover, as excess
    casualty is a long-tail class of business, any deviation in loss
    cost trends or in loss development factors might not be
    discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the
    recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident
    year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect
    to a number of accident years to be significantly affected by
    changes in the loss cost trends or loss development factors that
    were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These
    changes in loss trends or loss development factors could be
    attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial
    environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting
    claims. Thus, there is the potential for variations greater than
    the amounts cited above, either positively or negatively.

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of
    Business:   For D O and related management
    liability classes of business, the assumed loss cost trend was
    approximately four percent. After evaluating the historical loss
    cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s,
    including the potential effect of recent claims relating to the
    credit crisis, in AIG s judgment, it is reasonably likely
    that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2008
    loss reserve review for these classes will range from negative
    11 percent to positive 24 percent, or approximately
    15 percent lower or 20 percent higher than the
    assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2008 reserve
    review. A 20 or 15 percent change in the assumed loss cost
    trend for these classes would cause approximately a
    $950 million increase or a $600 million decrease,
    respectively, in the net loss and loss expense reserves for
    these classes of business. It should be emphasized that the 20
    and 15 percent deviations are not considered the highest
    possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is
    considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of
    potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends for these classes
    since the early 1990s were negative for several years, including
    amounts below the negative 11 percent cited above, whereas
    actual loss cost trends exceeded the 24 percent figure
    cited above for several other years. Because the D O class
    of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one
    accident year to the next, there is the possibility of an
    exceptionally high deviation.

For D O and related management liability classes of
    business, the assumed loss development factors are also an
    important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty.
    Because these classes are written on a claims

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    93 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

made basis, the loss reporting and development tail is much
    shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity
    nature of the claims does create the potential for significant
    deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the
    next. After evaluating the historical loss development factors
    for these classes of business for accident years since the early
    1990s, in AIG s judgment, it is reasonably likely that
    actual loss development factors will range from approximately
    8.5 percent lower to 3.5 percent higher than those
    factors actually utilized in the year-end 2008 loss reserve
    review for these classes. If the loss development factor
    assumptions were changed by 8.5 percent and
    3.5 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for these
    classes would be estimated to decrease or increase by
    approximately $300 million and $150 million,
    respectively. As noted above for excess casualty, actual
    historical loss development factors are generally used to
    project future loss development. However, there can be no
    assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same
    as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the
    8.5 percent or 3.5 percent amounts.

Excess Workers  Compensation:   For excess
    workers  compensation business, loss costs were trended at
    six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss
    trends for the past ten years, in AIG s judgment, it is
    reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the
    year-end 2008 loss reserve review for excess workers 
    compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this
    estimated loss trend. A five percent change in the assumed loss
    cost trend would cause approximately a $425 million
    increase or a $275 million decrease in the net loss
    reserves for this business. It should be emphasized that the
    actual loss cost trend could vary significantly from this
    assumption, and there can be no assurance that actual loss costs
    will not deviate, perhaps materially, by greater than five
    percent.

For excess workers  compensation business, the assumed loss
    development factors are a critical assumption. Excess
    workers  compensation is an extremely long-tail class of
    business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the
    appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss
    development. After evaluating the historical loss development
    factors for prior accident years since the 1980s, in AIG s
    judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development
    factors will range from approximately 12 percent lower to
    20 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in
    the year-end 2008 loss reserve review for excess workers 
    compensation. If the loss development factor assumptions were
    increased by 20 percent or decreased by 12 percent,
    the net loss reserves for excess workers  compensation
    would increase or decrease by approximately $950 million
    and $550 million, respectively. Given the exceptionally
    long-tail for this class of business, there is the potential for
    actual deviations in the loss development tail to exceed the
    deviations assumed, perhaps materially.

Primary Workers  Compensation:   For
    primary workers  compensation, the loss cost trend
    assumption is not believed to be material with respect to
    AIG s loss reserves. This is primarily because AIG s
    actuaries are generally able to use loss development projections
    for all but the most recent accident year s reserves, so
    there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for
    primary workers  compensation business.

However, for primary workers  compensation business the
    loss development factor assumptions are important. Generally,
    AIG s actual historical workers  compensation loss
    development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably
    accurate predictor of future loss development. However,
    workers  compensation is a long-tail class of business, and
    AIG s business reflects a very significant volume of losses
    particularly in recent accident years due to growth of the
    business. After evaluating the actual historical loss
    developments since the 1980s for this business, in AIG s
    judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development
    factors will fall within the range of approximately
    3.6 percent below to 9.4 percent above those actually
    utilized in the year-end 2008 loss reserve review. If the loss
    development factor assumptions were changed by 3.6 percent
    and 9.4 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for
    workers  compensation would decrease or increase by
    approximately $900 million and $2.4 billion,
    respectively. For this class of business, there can be no
    assurance that actual deviations from the expected loss
    development factors will not exceed the deviations assumed,
    perhaps materially.

Other Casualty Classes of Business:   For
    casualty business other than the classes discussed above, there
    is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost
    trend and loss development factor assumptions. However, the
    effect of such deviations is expected to be less material when
    compared to the effect on the classes cited above.

94    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Asbestos
    and Environmental Reserves   

The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and
    environmental claims on insurance policies written many years
    ago is subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims
    due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial
    interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have
    tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such
    policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. The
    insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation
    over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted
    with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these
    exposures.

AIG continues to receive claims asserting injuries and damages
    from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental
    pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of
    hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as
    environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries
    from asbestos.

The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims
    emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years.
    Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute
    exclusion for pollution-related damage and an absolute asbestos
    exclusion was also implemented. The current environmental
    policies that AIG underwrites on a claims-made basis have been
    excluded from the analysis herein.

The majority of AIG s exposures for asbestos and
    environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary
    coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same
    manner as indemnity amounts. That is, litigation expenses are
    included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs.
    Individual significant claim liabilities, where future
    litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on
    a
     case-by-case 
    basis.

Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is
    a subjective process and reserves for asbestos and environmental
    claims cannot be estimated using conventional reserving
    techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year
    loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos
    and environmental loss estimates and to establish the resulting
    reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management.

Significant factors which affect the trends that influence the
    asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the
    court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the
    intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case
    law can be characterized as still evolving, and there is little
    likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near
    future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of
    hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of
    responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the
    government s refusal to release parties from liability.

Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the
    future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the
    same degree of reliability as with other types of claims. Such
    future development will be affected by the extent to which
    courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the
    scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as well as by
    the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and
    liability issues. If the asbestos and environmental reserves
    develop deficiently, such deficiency would have an adverse
    effect on AIG s future results of operations.

With respect to known asbestos and environmental claims, AIG
    established over two decades ago specialized toxic tort and
    environmental claims units, which investigate and adjust all
    such asbestos and environmental claims. These units evaluate
    these asbestos and environmental claims utilizing a
     claim-by-claim 
    approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy
    terms and exposures. Because each policyholder presents
    different liability and coverage issues, AIG generally evaluates
    exposure on a
     policy-by-policy 
    basis, considering a variety of factors such as known facts,
    current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors
    that are unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques have to
    be supplemented by subjective considerations, including
    management judgment. Each claim is reviewed at least
    semi-annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted
    as necessary to reflect the current information.

In both the specialized and dedicated asbestos and environmental
    claims units, AIG actively manages and pursues early resolution
    with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its
    exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims. AIG
    attempts to mitigate its known long-tail environmental exposures
    by utilizing a combination of proactive claim-resolution
    techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental
    releases, compromise settlements, and, where indicated,
    litigation.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    95 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

With respect to asbestos claims handling, AIG s specialized
    claims staff operates to mitigate losses through proactive
    handling, supervision and resolution of asbestos cases. Thus,
    while AIG has resolved all claims with respect to miners and
    major manufacturers (Tier One), its claims staff continues
    to operate under the same proactive philosophy to resolve claims
    involving accounts with products containing asbestos
    (Tier Two), products containing small amounts of asbestos,
    companies in the distribution process, and parties with remote,
    ill-defined involvement in asbestos (Tiers Three and Four).
    Through its commitment to appropriate staffing, training, and
    management oversight of asbestos cases, AIG seeks to mitigate
    its exposure to these claims.

To determine the appropriate loss reserve as of
    December 31, 2008 for its asbestos and environmental
    exposures, AIG performed a series of top-down and
     ground-up 
    reserve analyses. In order to ensure it had the most
    comprehensive analysis possible, AIG engaged a third-party
    actuary to assist in a review of these exposures, including
     ground-up 
    estimates for asbestos reserves consistent with the 2005 through
    2007 reviews as well as a top-down report year projection for
    environmental reserves. Prior to 2005, AIG s reserve
    analyses for asbestos and environmental exposures were focused
    around a report year projection of aggregate losses for both
    asbestos and environmental reserves. Additional tests such as
    market share analyses were also performed.
     Ground-up 
    analyses take into account policyholder-specific and
    claim-specific information that has been gathered over many
    years from a variety of sources.
     Ground-up 
    studies can thus more accurately assess the exposure to
    AIG s layers of coverage for each policyholder, and hence
    for all policyholders in the aggregate, provided a sufficient
    sample of the policyholders can be modeled in this manner.

In order to ensure its
     ground-up 
    analysis was comprehensive, AIG staff produced the information
    required at policy and claim level detail for over 800 asbestos
    defendants. This represented over 95 percent of all
    accounts for which AIG had received any claim notice of any
    amount pertaining to asbestos exposure. AIG did not set any
    minimum thresholds, such as amount of case reserve outstanding,
    or paid losses to date, that would have served to reduce the
    sample size and hence the comprehensiveness of the
     ground-up 
    analysis. The results of the
     ground-up 
    analysis for each significant account were examined by
    AIG s claims staff for reasonableness, for consistency with
    policy coverage terms, and any claim settlement terms
    applicable. Adjustments were incorporated accordingly. The
    results from the universe of modeled accounts, which as noted
    above reflects the vast majority of AIG s known exposures,
    were then utilized to estimate the ultimate losses from accounts
    or exposures that could not be modeled and to determine an
    appropriate provision for unreported claims.

AIG conducted a comprehensive analysis of reinsurance
    recoverability to establish the appropriate asbestos and
    environmental reserve net of reinsurance. AIG determined the
    amount of reinsurance that would be ceded to insolvent
    reinsurers or to commuted reinsurance contracts for both
    reported claims and for IBNR. These amounts were then deducted
    from the indicated amount of reinsurance recoverable. The
    year-end 2008 analysis reflected an update to the comprehensive
    analysis of reinsurance recoverability that was first completed
    in 2005 and updated in 2006 and 2007. All asbestos accounts for
    which there was a significant change in estimated losses in the
    2008 review were analyzed to determine the appropriate reserve
    net of reinsurance.

AIG also completed a top-down report year projection of its
    indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These
    projections consist of a series of tests performed separately
    for asbestos and for environmental exposures.

For asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be
    reported over the next 18 years, i.e., from 2009 through
    2026, based on the actual losses reported through 2008 and the
    expected future loss emergence for these claims. Three scenarios
    were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more
    optimistic to more conservative.

For environmental claims, an analogous series of
    frequency/severity tests are produced. Environmental claims from
    future report years, (i.e., IBNR) are projected out eight years,
    i.e., through the year 2016.

At year-end 2008, AIG considered a number of factors and recent
    experience in addition to the results of the respective top-down
    and
     ground-up 
    analyses performed for asbestos and environmental reserves. AIG
    considered the significant uncertainty that remains as to
    AIG s ultimate liability relating to asbestos and
    environmental claims. This uncertainty is due to several factors
    including:

The long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease
    manifestation and the resulting potential for involvement of
    multiple policy periods for individual claims;

96    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The increase in the volume of claims by currently unimpaired
    plaintiffs;

Claims filed under the non-aggregate premises or operations
    section of general liability policies;

The number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the
    effect of prepackaged bankruptcies;

Diverging legal interpretations; and

With respect to environmental claims, the difficulty in
    estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various
    parties.

After carefully considering the results of the
     ground-up 
    analysis, which AIG updates on an annual basis, as well as all
    of the above factors, including the recent report year
    experience, AIG increased its gross asbestos reserves by
    $200 million and increased its net asbestos reserves by
    $30 million. Additionally, during 2008 an amount of adverse
    incurred loss development pertaining to asbestos was reflected
    which was primarily attributed to several large defendants, the
    effect of which was largely offset by one large favorable
    settlement.

Upon completion of the environmental top-down report year
    analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, no adjustment
    to gross and net reserves was recognized. Additionally, during
    2008 a moderate amount of favorable gross incurred loss
    development pertaining to environmental was reflected which was
    primarily attributable to recent favorable experience which was
    fully insured, resulting in no favorable net development on
    environmental net reserves.

A summary of reserve activity, including estimates for
    applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims
    separately and combined appears in the table below. The vast
    majority of such claims arise from policies written in 1984 and
    prior years. The current environmental policies that AIG
    underwrites on a claims-made basis have been excluded from the
    table below. 

*  

All amounts pertain to policies underwritten in prior years,
    primarily to policies issued in 1984 and prior.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    97 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The gross and net IBNR included in the liability for
    unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, relating to
    asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined were
    estimated as follows: 

A summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity
    was as follows: 

Survival
    Ratios   Asbestos and Environmental   

The following table presents AIG s survival ratios for
    asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006. The survival ratio is derived by dividing the
    current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the
    three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore,
    the survival ratio is a simplistic measure estimating the number
    of years it would be before the current ending loss reserves for
    these claims would be paid off using recent year average
    payments. The December 31, 2008 survival ratio is lower
    than the ratio at December 31, 2007 because the more recent
    periods included in the rolling average reflect higher claims
    payments. In addition, AIG s survival ratio for asbestos
    claims was negatively affected by the favorable settlement
    described above, as well as several similar settlements during
    2007. These settlements reduced gross and net asbestos survival
    ratios at December 31, 2008 by approximately 1.1 years
    and 2.4 years, respectively, and reduced gross and net
    asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2007 by
    approximately 1.3 years and 2.6 years, respectively.
    Many factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of
    business and level of coverage provided, have a significant
    effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and
    payments and the resultant survival ratio. Moreover, as
    discussed above, the primary basis for AIG s determination
    of its reserves is not survival ratios, but instead the
     ground-up 
    and top-down analysis. Thus, caution should be exercised in
    attempting to determine reserve adequacy for these claims based
    simply on this survival ratio.

AIG s survival ratios for asbestos and environmental
    claims, separately and combined, were based upon a three-year
    average payment and were as follows: 

98    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services Operations  

AIG s Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    operations offer a wide range of insurance and retirement
    savings products both domestically and abroad.

AIG s Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services operations include insurance and investment-oriented
    products such as whole and term life, investment linked,
    universal life and endowments, personal accident and health
    products, group products including pension, life and health, and
    fixed and variable annuities. The Foreign Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services products are sold
    through independent producers, career agents, financial
    institutions and direct marketing channels.

AIG s Domestic Life Insurance operations offer a broad
    range of protection products, such as individual life insurance
    and group life and health products, including disability income
    products and payout annuities, which include single premium
    immediate annuities, structured settlements and terminal funding
    annuities. The Domestic Life Insurance products are sold through
    independent producers, career agents, financial institutions and
    direct marketing channels. Home service operations include an
    array of life insurance, accident and health and annuity
    products sold primarily through career agents.

AIG s Domestic Retirement Services operations include group
    retirement products, individual fixed and variable annuities
    sold through banks, broker-dealers and exclusive sales
    representatives, and annuity runoff operations, which include
    previously acquired  closed blocks  and other fixed
    and variable annuities largely sold through distribution
    relationships that have been discontinued.

AIG s Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    reports its operations through the following major internal
    reporting units and legal entities:

Foreign
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services  

Japan and Other

American Life Insurance Company (ALICO)

AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star Life)

AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison Life)

Asia

American International Assurance Company, Limited, together with
    American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited (AIA)

Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan)

American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO)

The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company
    (Philamlife)

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    99 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Domestic Life Insurance

American General Life Insurance Company (AIG American General)

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York
    (USLIFE)

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA)

Domestic Retirement Services

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC)

AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity)

AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company (AIG SunAmerica)

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services
    Results   

Life Insurance   Retirement Services results were
    as follows: 

100    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

*  

2008 operating income (loss) includes goodwill impairment
    charges of $402 million and $817 million for
     Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services ,
    respectively.  

The following table presents the gross insurance in force for
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services: 

2008 and
    2007 Comparison  

Total revenues decreased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due
    to significantly higher levels of net realized capital losses
    and lower net investment income. See Consolidated Results and
    Investments   Portfolio Review for further discussion.

Premiums and other considerations increased in 2008 compared to
    2007 primarily due to increased production and favorable foreign
    exchange rates in the Foreign Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services operations and sales of payout annuities in
    Domestic Life Insurance.

In addition to the higher net realized capital losses and lower
    net investment income noted above, the operating loss for 2008
    increased as a result of DAC and sales inducement asset (SIA)
    unlocking and related reserve strengthening of $1.5 billion
    in the Domestic Retirement Services operations resulting from
    the continued weakness in the equity markets, the significantly
    higher surrender activity resulting from AIG parent s
    liquidity issues beginning in mid-September and goodwill
    impairment charges of $1.2 billion in the Domestic Life
    Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies. The
    impairment charges were attributable to declines in the
    estimated fair values of reporting units in the Property and
    Casualty Group, Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement
    Services, Consumer Finance and Capital Markets businesses
    attributable to the uncertain economic environment that
    developed in late 2008 coupled with other indications of fair
    value developed through the restructuring and asset disposition
    activities. The operating loss also included higher benefit
    costs in the Japan variable life product resulting from declines
    in the Japanese equity market. These decreases were partially
    offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates and
    growth in the underlying business in force. The operating loss
    in 2008 included a DAC and SIA benefit of $3.2 billion
    related to net realized capital losses compared to a benefit of
    $333 million in 2007.

AIG adopted FAS 157 on January 1, 2008. The adoption
    of FAS 157 resulted in an increase in pre-tax net realized
    capital losses of $155 million as of January 1, 2008,
    partially offset by a $47 million DAC benefit related to

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    101 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

these losses. These results were primarily due to an increase in
    the embedded policy derivative liability valuations resulting
    from the inclusion of explicit risk margins.

AIG adopted FAS 159 on January 1, 2008 and elected to
    apply the fair value option to a closed block of single premium
    variable life business in Japan and to an investment-linked
    product sold principally in Asia. The adoption of FAS 159
    with respect to these fair value elections resulted in a
    decrease to 2008 opening retained earnings of $559 million,
    net of tax. The fair value of the liabilities for these policies
    totaled $2.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and is
    reported in policyholder contract deposits.

2007 and
    2006 Comparison  

The severe credit market disruption was a key driver of
    operating results in 2007 principally due to significant net
    realized capital losses resulting from other-than-temporary
    impairment charges and losses on derivative instruments not
    qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. See Results of
    Operations Consolidated Results   Net Realized Gains
    (Losses) for further discussion.

Life Insurance   Retirement Services total revenues
    increased in 2007 compared to 2006 despite the higher net
    realized capital losses primarily due to higher premiums and
    other considerations and higher net investment income.

Operating income in 2007 decreased compared to 2006 primarily
    due to net realized capital losses and the following:

mark-to-market trading losses of $150 million related to
    investment-linked products in the U.K.;

DAC amortization charges of $108 million related to the
    adoption in 2007 of
     SOP 05-1; 

remediation activity charges of $118 million; and

out-of-period adjustments related to UCITS and participating
    policyholder dividends, which increased 2006 operating income by
    $332 million.

These decreases were partially offset as operating income in
    2006 was negatively affected by charges of $125 million for
    the Superior National arbitration ruling, $66 million
    related to exiting the domestic financial institutions credit
    life business and $55 million related to other litigation
    charges.

Foreign
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    Results   

Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    results on a sub-product basis were as follows: 

102    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies and
    therefore premiums and other considerations reported in
    U.S. dollars vary by volume and from changes in foreign
    currency translation rates.

The following table summarizes the effect of changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of the Foreign
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services premiums and
    other considerations: 

*  

Computed using a constant exchange rate each period.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    103 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Total revenues for Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services in 2008 decreased compared to 2007 primarily due to
    substantial net realized capital losses and significantly lower
    net investment income. See Consolidated Results   Net
    Investment Income and   Net Realized Capital Gains
    (Losses).

Despite the continued growth in the underlying business in force
    and the positive effect of foreign exchange, operating income in
    2008 also decreased compared to 2007 due to:

higher losses of $262 million on certain investment
    linked-products in the U.K. due to mark-to-market trading losses
    partially offset by a positive change in benefit reserves
    resulting from changes to the Premier Access Bond product
    following significant surrender activity as a result of the AIG
    liquidity issues in mid-September. As allowed under the contract
    terms, surrenders were suspended to allow sufficient time to
    develop an appropriate course of action with the respective
    distribution network and to protect the interest of the
    fund s policyholders. Policyholders received a cash
    distribution equal to approximately half of their account value
    and were given the option to receive the remainder in cash at a
    discounted amount based on the value of the underlying
    investments or transfer their account value into a newly created
    fund. The newly created fund is valued at the net asset value of
    the underlying investments but provides for a guarantee of a
    minimum amount should the policyholder remain in the fund until
    July 2012. Any surrenders prior to July 2012 will be at the net
    asset value;

higher benefit costs, net of related DAC unlocking, of
    $106 million principally related to volatility in the
    Japanese equity market and declines in interest rates and,

Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services continued
    its ongoing project to increase standardization of AIG s
    actuarial systems and processes throughout the world which
    resulted in a favorable effect on operating income of
    $151 million for 2008 compared to a $183 million
    positive effect in 2007.

Partially offsetting these items were higher DAC and SIA
    benefits of $132 million related to the net realized
    capital losses and higher surrender charge income related to the
    temporary spike in policy surrenders during the fourth quarter.
    Generally, surrenders have returned to normal levels in the
    foreign operations. In addition, operating income for 2007
    included $118 million of remediation activity charges and
    $67 million of additional claim expense related to an
    industry-wide regulatory claims review in Japan.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Total revenues for Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services in 2007 increased compared to 2006, primarily due to
    higher premiums and other considerations and net investment
    income partially offset by net realized capital losses. Net
    investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to
    higher levels of assets under management, higher policyholder
    trading gains and higher partnership and mutual fund income.

Operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 principally
    due to:

net realized capital losses;

mark-to-market trading losses of $150 million related to
    investment-linked products in the U.K.;

remediation activity charge of $118 million;

additional claim expense of $67 million relating to an
    industry-wide regulatory review of claims in Japan;

additional policyholder benefits expense of $36 million
    related to a closed block of Japanese business with guaranteed
    benefits; and

out-of-period adjustments benefiting 2006 earnings for
    $332 million related to UCITS and participating
    policyholder dividend reserves.

These decreases were partially offset by higher net investment
    income, a $183 million positive effect of changes in
    actuarial estimates and the positive effect of changes in
    foreign exchange rates.

104    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Foreign
    Life Insurance   Retirement Services Sales and
    Deposits*   

First year premium, single premium and annuity deposits for
    Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services were as
    follows: 

*   

Excludes operations in Brazil.  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

First year premium sales in 2008 declined compared to 2007
    primarily due to decreases in life insurance and personal
    accident sales. In Japan, life insurance sales were lower due to
    reduced levels of increasing term sales and lower sales in the
    fourth quarter of 2008 related to AIG s liquidity issues.
    Also in Japan, personal accident sales declined in the direct
    marketing distribution channel due to lower response rates
    resulting from market saturation. In Taiwan, regular premium
    life insurance sales declined due to a shift in sales to
    investment-linked and variable annuity products. These declines
    were partially offset by increases in group products sales,
    particularly in Japan, Australia and the Middle East.

Single premium sales in 2008 declined compared to 2007 primarily
    due to lower guaranteed income bond deposits in the U.K. which
    fell as customers shifted to variable annuity products during
    the first three quarters of the year and which were
    significantly negatively affected in the fourth quarter by
    AIG s liquidity issues. Single premium sales in Asia also
    dropped as customers became concerned about declining equity
    markets, particularly in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and China.
    A new single premium personal accident and health product
    launched in Japan during the first quarter of 2008 continues to
    perform well and sales, which started through banks, are being
    expanded to the agency channels.

Annuity deposits decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 as the
    decline in individual variable annuity deposits more than offset
    the increase in individual fixed annuity deposits.
    Investment-linked deposits in the U.K. decreased significantly
    in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to the AIG liquidity issues.
    Individual variable annuity deposits in Taiwan increased in 2008
    compared to 2007 due to the launch of a new variable annuity
    product. In Japan, individual fixed annuity deposits increased
    in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to a favorable exchange
    rate environment for non-yen denominated products. However,
    AIG s liquidity issues and the planned disposition of
    AIG s Japan life operations negatively affected deposits in
    the fourth quarter of 2008 as banks suspended the distribution
    of AIG products. While some banks in Japan have resumed sales of
    annuity products, most have not. AIG has, therefore, increased
    sales of annuity deposits through agents.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

First year premium sales in 2007 increased compared to 2006 in
    both U.S. dollar terms and original currency primarily due
    to strong investment-oriented product sales in Southeast Asia.
    This increase was partially offset by declines in Japan
    resulting from the suspension of increasing term sales and lower
    personal accident production resulting from changes in local tax
    regulations.

Single premium sales in 2007 increased dramatically compared to
    2006, driven primarily by guaranteed income bond sales in the
    U.K. and investment-oriented product sales in Hong Kong and
    Singapore.

Annuity deposits declined in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual
    fixed annuity deposits were negatively affected by an
    unfavorable exchange rate environment and a shift to variable
    annuity products. Individual variable annuity deposits declined
    in 2007 compared to 2006 in both Europe and Japan. In Europe,
    lower deposits reflected the effect of tax law changes that
    reduced tax benefits to policyholders. In Japan, lower sales
    resulted from increased

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    105 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

competition and the introduction of a new law that increased
    sales compliance and customer suitability requirements.

Domestic
    Life Insurance Results   

Domestic Life Insurance results, presented on a sub-product
    basis were as follows: 

106    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(a)  

2008 operating income (loss) includes goodwill impairment
    charges of $80 million for life insurance,
    $280 million for home service and $42 million for
    group life/health.  

(b)  

Premiums and other considerations include structured
    settlements, single premium immediate annuities and terminal
    funding annuities.  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Total revenues for Domestic Life Insurance decreased in 2008
    compared to 2007 primarily due to significantly higher net
    realized capital losses and lower net investment income,
    partially offset by higher premiums and other considerations.
    Domestic Life Insurance premiums and other considerations
    increased due to strong payout annuities sales and growth in
    life insurance business in force. The growth in payout annuities
    deposits was driven by structured settlement and terminal
    funding annuities in both the U.S. and Canada. Net
    investment income declined due to higher policyholder trading
    losses offset in policyholder benefits, reduced overall
    investment yields from increased levels of short-term
    investments and lower partnership and call and tender income.
    Partially offsetting these items were growth in underlying
    businesses and reduced losses due to the phaseout of synthetic
    fuel production investments. The increase in net realized
    capital losses was primarily driven by other-than-temporary
    impairment charges. See Results of Operations  
    Consolidated Results   Net Investment Income and Net
    Realized Capital Losses and Investments   Securities
    Lending Activities.

Domestic Life Insurance reported a significant operating loss in
    2008 compared to operating income in 2007 due principally to
    significantly lower revenues (as described above), goodwill
    impairment charges and restructuring expenses in 2008. Partially
    offsetting these items was the continued growth in the
    underlying business in force and favorable mortality experience
    in life insurance and payout annuities. Life insurance results
    were also affected by higher DAC amortization of
    $30 million related to the change in the unearned revenue
    liability described above, resulting in a net benefit of
    $22 million. In addition, 2007 payout annuities operating
    income was adversely affected by a $30 million adjustment
    to increase group annuity reserves. Policyholder benefit
    reserves in 2008 included an increase of $12 million
    related to the workers  compensation reinsurance program
    compared to a reduction in expense of $52 million in 2007.
    Operating income (loss) includes a DAC benefit related to
    realized capital losses of $364 million in 2008 compared to
    a benefit of $13 million in 2007.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Total revenues for Domestic Life Insurance decreased in 2007
    compared to 2006 primarily due to net realized capital losses
    partially offset by higher net investment income and premiums
    and other considerations. The Domestic Life Insurance premiums
    and other considerations increased as a result of higher payout
    annuity deposits and growth in life insurance business in force,
    partially offset by decreased group life/health premiums from
    exiting the financial institutions credit life business at the
    end of 2006.

Operating income decreased in 2007 compared with 2006 due
    principally to net realized capital losses. In addition,
    operating income in 2007 was negatively affected by a
    $52 million charge due to changes in actuarial estimates
    which included DAC unlocking and refinements in estimates
    resulting from actuarial valuation system enhancements and a
    $67 million increase in DAC amortization related to
     SOP 05-1. 
    These items were partially

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    107 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

offset by a $52 million decrease in policy benefits due to
    additional reinsurance recoveries associated with Superior
    National. Operating income in 2006 included a $125 million
    charge related to the Superior National workers 
    compensation arbitration, a $66 million loss related to
    exiting the financial institutions credit life business and a
    $55 million charge related to litigation reserves.

Domestic
    Life Insurance Sales and Deposits   

Domestic Life Insurance sales and deposits by product* were
    as follows: 

*  

Life insurance sales include periodic premium from new
    business expected to be collected over a one-year period and
    unscheduled and single premiums from new and existing
    policyholders. Sales of group accident and health insurance
    represent annualized first year premium from new policies.
    Annuity sales represent deposits from new and existing
    policyholders.  

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Total Domestic Life Insurance sales and deposits increased in
    2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to strong payout and
    individual fixed annuities sales, partially offset by a decline
    in total life insurance premiums. Payout annuities sales
    increased due to strong terminal funding and structured
    settlement sales in both the U.S. and Canada. Individual
    fixed annuities sales increased as a result of the interest rate
    environment as credited rates offered were more competitive with
    the rates offered by banks on certificates of deposit. The
    ratings downgrades and negative publicity related to AIG
    resulted in lower sales and deposits for the fourth quarter of
    2008.

The U.S. life insurance market remains highly competitive
    and Domestic Life s emphasis on maintaining new business
    margins has affected sales of term and universal life products,
    although recent enhancements to term products resulted in an
    increase in sales prior to AIG s liquidity issues in
    September 2008.

108    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Domestic
    Retirement Services Results   

Domestic Retirement Services results, presented on a
    sub-product basis were as follows: 

(a)  

2008 operating income (loss) includes goodwill impairment
    charges of $817 million for individual fixed annuities.  

(b)  

Primarily represents runoff annuity business sold through
    discontinued distribution relationships.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    109 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Domestic Retirement Services incurred an operating loss in 2008
    compared to operating income in 2007, primarily due to
    significantly increased net realized capital losses, losses on
    partnership investments as well as DAC unlocking and related
    reserve strengthening resulting from increased surrenders and
    deteriorating equity markets and goodwill impairment charges.
    See Results of Operations   Consolidated
    Results   Net Investment Income and Net Realized
    Capital Losses for further information. AIG discontinued its
    U.S. securities lending program in December 2008. See
    Investments   Securities Lending Activities.

Both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities
    reported operating losses in 2008 compared to operating income
    in 2007 primarily as a result of increased net realized capital
    losses due to higher other-than-temporary impairment charges and
    goodwill impairment charges, lower net investment income due to
    partnership losses, lower yield enhancement income and reduced
    overall investment yield from increased levels of short-term
    investments. In addition, DAC and SIA unlocking for group
    retirement products and individual fixed annuities totaled
    $210 million and $171 million, respectively, driven by
    projected increases in surrenders and deteriorating equity
    markets. These negative effects were partially offset by DAC and
    SIA benefits of $1.7 billion related to the net realized
    capital losses compared to $182 million in 2007.

Individual variable annuities reported an operating loss in 2008
    compared to operating income in 2007 primarily as a result of
    significantly increased net realized capital losses, principally
    due to $822 million of increased embedded policy derivative
    liability valuations, net of related economic hedges and
    other-than-temporary impairment charges. In addition, the
    operating loss included $1.1 billion of DAC unlocking and
    related reserve strengthening resulting primarily from the
    deteriorating equity markets. Operating losses also included DAC
    and SIA benefits of $454 million related to the net
    realized capital losses compared to $16 million in 2007.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Total revenues and operating income for Domestic Retirement
    Services declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to
    increased net realized capital losses. Net realized capital
    losses for Domestic Retirement Services increased due to higher
    other-than-temporary impairment charges and sales to reposition
    assets in certain investment portfolios for both group
    retirement products and individual fixed annuities, as well as
    from changes in the value of certain individual variable annuity
    product guarantees and related hedges associated with living
    benefit features. Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC
    unlockings and refinements to estimates resulting from actuarial
    valuation system enhancements, resulted in a net decrease to
    operating income of $112 million in 2007.

Domestic
    Retirement Services Sales and Deposits   

The following table presents the account value roll forward
    for Domestic Retirement Services by product: 

110    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Deposits in all three product lines were negatively affected by
    the AIG ratings downgrades and AIG s liquidity issues
    commencing in September 2008. The decrease in group retirement
    products deposits was due to a decline in both group annuity
    deposits and group mutual fund deposits. The improvement in
    individual fixed annuity deposits was due to a steepened yield
    curve, providing the opportunity to offer higher interest
    crediting rates than certificates of deposits and mutual fund
    money market rates available at the time. Both group retirement
    products and

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    111 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

individual fixed annuities deposits decreased after the AIG
    ratings downgrades. Individual variable annuity product sales
    declined due to the AIG ratings downgrades and continued
    weakness in the equity markets.

Domestic Retirement Services surrenders and other withdrawals
    increased in all three product lines in 2008 compared to 2007
    primarily due to the AIG ratings downgrades and AIG s
    liquidity issues.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Domestic Retirement Services deposits increased in 2007 compared
    to 2006 primarily reflecting higher deposits in group retirement
    products and individual variable annuities, partially offset by
    a decrease in individual fixed annuities. Group retirement
    deposits increased 10 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 as a
    result of an increased focus on sales management and acquiring
    outside deposits. Mutual funds deposits increased
    20 percent while group annuity deposits increased
    8 percent. Individual fixed annuity sales continued to face
    increased competition from bank deposit products and money
    market funds offering very competitive short-term rates in the
    2007 yield curve environment, and as a result deposits decreased
    5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual variable
    annuity deposits increased 5 percent in 2007 compared to
    2006 despite the discontinuation of a major bank proprietary
    product.

Domestic Retirement Services surrenders and other withdrawals
    increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting higher surrenders
    in both group retirement products and individual fixed
    annuities. Group retirement surrenders increased as a result of
    both normal maturing of the business and higher large group
    surrenders in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual fixed annuity
    surrenders and withdrawals increased in 2007 due to both an
    increasing number of policies coming out of their surrender
    charge period and increased competition from bank deposit
    products.

The following table presents Domestic Retirement Services
    reserves by surrender charge category and surrender rates: 

Surrender rates increased for group retirement products and
    individual variable and fixed annuities in 2008 compared to 2007
    primarily due to the AIG ratings downgrades and AIG s
    liquidity issues.

112    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Sales Inducement
    Assets    

DAC for Life Insurance   Retirement Services products
    arises from the deferral of costs that vary with, and are
    directly related to, the acquisition of new or renewal business.
    Policy acquisition costs for life insurance products are
    generally deferred and amortized over the premium paying period
    in accordance with FAS 60,  Accounting and Reporting
    by Insurance Enterprises  (FAS 60). Policy acquisition
    costs that relate to universal life and investment-type products
    are generally deferred and amortized, with interest in relation
    to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over
    the estimated lives of the contracts in accordance with
    FAS 97. Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at
    the time of acquisition and is reported on the consolidated
    balance sheet with DAC and amortized over the life of the
    business, similar to DAC. AIG offers sales inducements to
    contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and
    investment contracts. Sales inducements are recognized as an
    asset (SIA) with a corresponding increase to the liability for
    policyholder contract deposits on the consolidated balance sheet
    and are amortized over the life of the contract similar to DAC.
    The deferral of acquisition and sales inducement costs decreased
    $164 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to
    declines in new business production resulting from AIG s
    liquidity issues. Total amortization expense increased by
    $1.5 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. The current year
    amortization includes a $3.2 billion increase to operating
    income related to net realized capital losses in 2008 compared
    to $333 million in 2007 reflecting significantly higher
    other-than-temporary impairment charges. Current year
    amortization for Domestic Retirement Services also includes
    adjustments for DAC and SIA unlocking of $961 million
    related to the continued weakness in the equity markets and DAC
    and SIA unlocking of $267 million due to higher surrender
    activity. There was no effect from higher surrender activity in
    Domestic Life and the Foreign Life operations as the write-off
    of the DAC was offset by related policy charges. In 2007,
    amortization expense included changes in actuarial estimates of
    $732 million, mostly offset in policyholder benefits and
    claims incurred, which decreased the reported expense.
    Annualized amortization expense levels in 2008 and 2007 were
    approximately 13 percent and 10 percent, respectively,
    of the opening DAC balance.

AIG adopted FAS 159 on January 1, 2008 and elected to
    apply fair value accounting for an investment-linked product
    sold principally in Asia. Upon fair value election, all DAC and
    SIA are written off and there is no further deferral or
    amortization of DAC and SIA for that product. The amounts of DAC
    and SIA written off as of January 1, 2008 were
    $1.1 billion and $299 million, respectively.

The following table summarizes the major components of the
    changes in DAC/VOBA and SIA: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    113 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(a)   

In 2007, Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    includes lower amortization of $836 million related to
    changes in actuarial estimates, mostly offset in Policyholder
    benefits and claims incurred. Domestic Retirement Services
    includes higher amortization of $104 million related to
    changes in actuarial estimates.  

As AIG operates in various global markets, the estimated gross
    profits used to amortize DAC, VOBA and SIA are subject to
    differing market returns and interest rate environments in any
    single period. The combination of market returns and interest
    rates may lead to acceleration of amortization in some products
    and regions and simultaneous deceleration of amortization in
    other products and regions.

114    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

DAC, VOBA and SIA for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented
    and retirement services products are reviewed for
    recoverability, which involves estimating the future
    profitability of current business. This review involves
    significant management judgment. If actual future profitability
    is substantially lower than estimated, AIG s DAC, VOBA and
    SIA may be subject to an impairment charge and AIG s
    results of operations could be significantly affected in future
    periods.

Taiwan    

Beginning in 2000, the yield available on Taiwanese
     10-year 
    government bonds dropped from approximately 6 percent to
    1.5 percent at December 31, 2008. Yields on most other
    invested assets have correspondingly dropped over the same
    period. Current sales are focused on products such as:

variable separate account products which do not contain interest
    rate guarantees,

participating products which contain very low implied interest
    rate guarantees, and

accident and health policies and riders.

In developing the reserve adequacy analysis for Nan Shan,
    several key best estimate assumptions have been made:

Observed historical mortality improvement trends have been
    projected to 2014;

Morbidity, expense and termination rates have been updated to
    reflect recent experience;

Taiwan government bond rates are expected to remain at current
    levels for 10 years and gradually increase to best estimate
    assumptions of a market consensus view of long-term interest
    rate expectations;

Foreign assets are assumed to comprise 35 percent of
    invested assets, resulting in a composite long-term investment
    assumption of approximately 4.9 percent; and

The current practice permitted in Taiwan of offsetting positive
    mortality experience with negative interest margins, thus
    eliminating the need for mortality dividends, will continue.

Future results of the reserve adequacy tests will involve
    significant management judgment as to mortality, morbidity,
    expense and termination rates and investment yields. Adverse
    changes in these assumptions could accelerate DAC amortization
    and necessitate reserve strengthening. Future results of the
    reserve adequacy tests will be affected by the nature, timing
    and duration of any potential change in investment strategy
    implemented for Nan Shan.

Financial
    Services Operations  

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
    activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, and
    consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the
    Aircraft Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance
    operations generate the majority of the revenues produced by the
    Financial Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to
    Financial Services income principally by providing insurance
    premium financing for both AIG s policyholders and those of
    other insurers.

Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which
    engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial
    transactions, including standard and customized financial
    products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy,
    equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invests in a diversified
    portfolio of securities and engages in borrowing activities that
    involve issuing standard and structured notes and other
    securities and entering into GIAs. Given the extreme market
    conditions experienced in 2008, downgrades of AIG s credit
    ratings by the rating agencies, as well as AIG s intent to
    refocus on its core businesses, AIGFP has begun to unwind its
    businesses and portfolios including those associated with credit
    protection written through credit default swaps on super senior
    risk tranches of diversified pools of loans and debt securities.

Historically, AIG s Capital Markets operations derived a
    significant portion of their revenues from hedged financial
    positions entered into in connection with counterparty
    transactions. AIGFP has also participated as a dealer in a wide
    variety of financial derivatives transactions. Revenues and
    operating income of the Capital Markets operations and the
    percentage change in these amounts for any given period are
    significantly affected by changes in

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    115 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

the fair value of AIGFP s assets and liabilities and by the
    number, size and profitability of transactions entered into
    during that period relative to those entered into during the
    comparative period.

Financial
    Services Results    

Financial Services results were as follows: 

2008 and
    2007 Comparison  

Financial Services reported operating losses in 2008 and 2007,
    primarily due to unrealized market valuation losses related to
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolios of
    $28.6 billion and $11.5 billion in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. AIGFP also recorded operating losses of
    $9.3 billion in 2008 representing the effect of changes in
    credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFP s assets and
    liabilities, including $185 million of gains reflected in
    the unrealized market valuation loss on the super senior credit
    default swaps. AGF s operating income declined in 2008
    compared to 2007 primarily due to increases in the provision for
    finance receivable losses of $674 million resulting from
    increases to the allowance for finance receivable losses in
    response to the higher levels of delinquencies on AGF s
    finance receivable portfolio, higher net charge-offs, and a
    goodwill impairment charge of $341 million. As of
    December 31, 2008, AGF reclassified $1.0 billion of
    real estate loans to be held for sale due to management s
    change in intent to hold these receivables. Based on
    negotiations with prospective purchasers, AGF determined that a
    write-down of $27 million was necessary to reduce the
    carrying value of these loans to net realizable value. The sales
    of these loans were completed in February 2009. As of
    December 31, 2008, AGF s intent to hold for investment
    the remainder of the finance receivable portfolio had not
    changed. AIGCFG also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
    $343 million in 2008. The net loss in the Other reporting
    unit resulted primarily from the change in fair value of
    interest rate swaps on economically hedged exposures.

ILFC generated strong operating income growth in 2008 compared
    to 2007, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet,
    higher lease rates and lower composite borrowing rates.

2007 and
    2006 Comparison  

Financial Services reported an operating loss in 2007 compared
    to operating income in 2006 primarily due to an unrealized
    market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFP s
    super senior credit default swap portfolio, an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge on AIGFP s available
    for sale investment securities of $643 million recorded in
    other income, and a decline in operating income for AGF.
    AGF s operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006,
    due to reduced residential mortgage origination volumes, lower
    revenues from its mortgage banking activities

116    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

and increases in the provision for finance receivable losses. In
    2007, AGF s mortgage banking operations also recorded a
    pre-tax charge of $178 million, representing the estimated
    cost of implementing the Supervisory Agreement entered into with
    the OTS.

ILFC generated strong operating income growth in 2007 compared
    to 2006, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet,
    higher lease rates and higher utilization.

In 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting under
    FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign
    currency forward contracts that hedge its investments and
    borrowings and AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to
    most of their derivatives that hedge floating rate and foreign
    currency denominated borrowings. Prior to 2007, hedge accounting
    was not applied to any of AIG s derivatives and related
    assets and liabilities. Accordingly, revenues and operating
    income were exposed to volatility resulting from differences in
    the timing of revenue recognition between the derivatives and
    the hedged assets and liabilities.

Capital
    Markets Results   

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

AIGFP s operating loss increased in 2008 compared to 2007
    primarily related to its super senior multi-sector CDO credit
    default swap portfolio and the effect of credit spreads on the
    valuation of its assets and liabilities. The 2008 net
    operating loss was driven by the extreme market conditions
    experienced during the year and the effects of downgrades of
    AIG s credit ratings by the rating agencies. The net
    operating results were also affected by internal efforts during
    the first half of 2008 intended to preserve liquidity. As a
    result of AIG s intention to refocus on its core business,
    AIGFP began unwinding its businesses and portfolios. For a
    further discussion, see Overview   Outlook  
    Financial Services.

AIG recognized an unrealized market valuation loss of
    $28.6 billion in 2008 compared to $11.5 billion in
    2007, representing the change in fair value of its super senior
    credit default swap portfolio. The principal components of the
    loss recognized in 2008 were as follows:

Approximately $25.7 billion relates to derivatives written
    on the super senior tranches of multi-sector CDOs. The material
    decline in the fair value of these derivatives was caused by
    significant deterioration in the pricing and credit quality of
    RMBS, CMBS and CDO securities. Included in this amount is a loss
    of $4.3 billion with respect to the change in fair value of
    transactions outstanding at December 31, 2008 having a net
    notional amount of $12.6 billion. Also included in the
    unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s super senior
    credit default swap portfolio are losses of approximately
    $995 million that were subsequently realized through
    payments to counterparties to acquire at par value the
    underlying CDO securities with fair values that were less than
    par. Specifically, during the second quarter of 2008, AIGFP
    issued new maturity-shortening puts that allow the holders of
    the securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as
    short-term eligible 2a-7 investments under the Investment
    Company Act of 1940 (2a-7 Puts), with a net notional amount of
    $5.4 billion on the super senior security issued by a CDO
    of AAA-rated commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS)
    pursuant to a facility that was entered into in 2005. All of
    these 2a-7 Puts and other 2a-7 Puts in AIGFP s multi-sector
    CDO super senior credit default swap portfolio with a combined
    net notional amount of $9.4 billion were exercised by the
    counterparties during 2008. In addition, AIGFP extinguished its
    obligations with respect to one other credit default swap by
    purchasing the protected CDO security at its principal amount
    outstanding of $162 million. These transactions represent
    all of the payments that have been made to counterparties
    through December 31, 2008 on the super senior credit
    default swap portfolio of AIGFP under the settlement provisions
    of these contracts. AIGFP has not committed to enter into any
    new 2a-7 Puts.

Further, included in the unrealized market valuation losses on
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio are
    losses of approximately $21.1 billion that were
    subsequently realized through the termination of contracts
    through the ML III transaction. See Note 5 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Approximately $2.3 billion relates to derivatives written
    as part of the corporate arbitrage portfolio. The decline in the
    fair value of these derivatives was caused by the continued
    significant widening in corporate credit spreads.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    117 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Approximately $379 million relates to the decline in fair
    value of a transaction in the regulatory capital portfolio where
    AIGFP no longer believes the credit default swap is used by the
    counterparty to obtain regulatory capital relief.

See Critical Accounting Estimates   Valuation of
    Level 3 Assets and Liabilities and Note 5 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio.

During 2008, AIGFP recognized a loss of $888 million on
    credit derivatives which are not included in the super senior
    credit default swap portfolio, compared to a net gain of
    $370 million in 2007.

The following table presents AIGFP s credit valuation
    adjustment gains (losses) for the year ended December 31,
    2008 (excluding intercompany transactions): 

*   

Includes super senior credit default swap portfolio  

Capital Markets  operating loss for 2008 includes a loss of
    $9.3 billion representing the effect of changes in credit
    spreads on the valuation of AIGFP s assets and liabilities,
    including $185 million of gains reflected in the unrealized
    market valuation loss on super senior credit default swaps.
    Historically, AIG s credit spreads and those on
    AIGFP s assets moved in a similar fashion. This
    relationship began to diverge during second quarter of 2008 and
    continued to diverge through the end of the year. While
    AIG s credit spreads widened significantly during 2008, the
    credit spreads on the ABS and CDO products, which represent a
    significant portion of AIGFP s investment portfolio,
    widened even more. The losses on AIGFP s assets more than
    offset the net gain on its liabilities that was driven by the
    significant widening in AIG s credit spreads. The net gain
    on AIGFP s liabilities was reduced by the effect of posting
    collateral and the early terminations of GIAs, term notes and
    hybrid term notes. Included in the 2008 operating loss is the
    transition amount of $291 million related to the adoption
    of FAS 157 and FAS 159.

The most significant component of Capital Markets operating
    expenses is compensation. Due to the significant losses
    recognized by AIGFP during 2008, the entire amount of
    $563 million accrued under AIGFP s various deferred
    compensation plans and special incentive plan was reversed in
    2008. Total compensation expense in 2008 was $426 million
    including retention awards.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Capital Markets reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to
    operating income in 2006, primarily due to fourth quarter 2007
    unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFP s super
    senior credit default swap portfolio principally written on
    multi-sector CDOs and an other-than-temporary impairment charge
    on AIGFP s investment portfolio of CDOs of ABS. These
    losses were partially offset by the effect of applying hedge
    accounting to certain hedging activities beginning in 2007, as
    described below, and net unrealized market gains related to
    certain credit default swaps purchased against the AAA to
    BBB-rated risk layers on portfolios of reference obligations.
    AIGFP experienced higher transaction flow in 2007 in its rate
    and currency products which contributed to its revenues.

Included in AIGFP s net operating loss was a net unrealized
    market valuation gain of $401 million on certain credit
    default swaps and embedded credit derivatives in credit-linked
    notes in 2007. In these transactions, AIGFP purchased protection
    at the AAA - to BBB-rated risk layers on portfolios of reference
    obligations that include multi-sector CDO obligations.

118    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

During the fourth quarter of 2007, certain of AIGFP s
    available for sale investments in super senior and
     AAA-rated 
    bonds issued by multi-sector CDOs experienced severe declines in
    their fair value. As a result, AIGFP recorded an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge in other income of
    $643 million. Notwithstanding AIG s intent and ability
    to hold such securities at such time until they recover in
    value, and despite structures which indicated that a substantial
    amount of the securities should continue to perform in
    accordance with their original terms, AIG concluded that it
    could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be
    temporary. See also Investments   Financial Services
    Invested Assets and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The change in fair value of AIGFP s credit default swaps
    that reference CDOs and the decline in fair value of its
    investments in CDOs were caused by the significant widening in
    spreads in the fourth quarter on asset-backed securities,
    principally those related to U.S. residential mortgages,
    the severe liquidity crisis affecting the structured finance
    markets and the effects of rating agency downgrades on those
    securities.

In addition, in 2007 AIGFP recognized a net gain of
    $211 million related to hedging activities that did not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133,
    compared to a net loss of $1.82 billion in 2006.

The year ended December 31, 2007 included an out-of-period
    charge of $380 million to reverse net gains recognized in
    previous periods on transfers of available for sale securities
    among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP, and a
    $166 million reduction in fair value at March 31, 2007
    of certain derivatives that were an integral part of, and
    economically hedge, the structured transactions that were
    affected by the proposed regulations issued by the United States
    Department of the Treasury. The net loss on AIGFP s
    derivatives recognized in 2006 included an out-of-period charge
    of $223 million related to the remediation of the material
    weakness in internal control over accounting for certain
    derivative transactions under FAS 133. The net loss also
    reflects the effect of increases in U.S. interest rates and
    a weakening of the U.S. dollar on derivatives hedging
    AIGFP s assets and liabilities.

Financial market conditions in 2007 were characterized by
    increases in global interest rates, widening of credit spreads,
    higher equity valuations and a slightly weaker U.S. dollar.

The most significant component of Capital Markets operating
    expenses is compensation, which was approximately
    $423 million and $544 million in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The amount of compensation was not affected by
    gains and losses arising from derivatives not qualifying for
    hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133.

Asset
    Management Operations  

AIG s Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety
    of investment-related services and investment products. These
    services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds
    and institutions (including AIG subsidiaries) globally through
    AIG s Spread-Based Investment business, Institutional Asset
    Management, and Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds businesses.
    Also included in Asset Management operations are the results of
    certain SunAmerica sponsored partnership investments.

The revenues and operating income (loss) for this segment are
    affected by the general conditions in the equity and credit
    markets. In addition, net realized gains and carried interest
    are contingent upon various fund closings, maturity levels and
    market conditions. In the Institutional Asset Management
    business, carried interest, computed in accordance with each
    fund s governing agreement, is based on the
    investment s performance over the life of each fund.
    Unrealized carried interest is recognized based on each
    fund s performance as of the balance sheet date. Future
    fund performance may negatively affect previously recognized
    carried interest.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    119 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Asset
    Management Results    

Asset Management results were as follows: 

2008 and
    2007 Comparison  

Asset Management recognized an operating loss in 2008 compared
    to operating income in 2007, primarily due to higher
    other-than-temporary impairment charges on fixed maturity
    securities, higher mark-to-market losses on unhedged
    derivatives, significantly lower partnership income, higher
    equity losses and realized losses on real estate investments,
    and lower net carried interest revenues. Partially offsetting
    these declines were increases in net foreign exchange gains on
    foreign currency denominated GIC and MIP liabilities. Included
    in the Institutional Asset Management operating income during
    2007 was a gain on the sale of a portion of AIG s
    investment in The Blackstone Group L.P. (Blackstone) in
    connection with its initial public offering.

As noted in the Asset Disposition section of Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations, certain businesses within the Asset Management
    segment are being divested. The $9.2 billion operating loss
    for 2008 includes approximately $4.5 billion in net
    operating losses related to businesses which are expected to be
    retained by AIG, including the MIP. AIG will retain the
    businesses that manage the short duration asset and liability
    management and traditional fixed income investment services for
    the insurance companies.

2007 and
    2006 Comparison  

Asset Management revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006
    primarily due to increased partnership income, management fees,
    and carried interest.

Asset Management operating income decreased in 2007 compared to
    2006, due to foreign exchange, interest rate and credit-related
    mark-to-market losses and other-than-temporary impairment
    charges on fixed income investments. These other-than-temporary
    impairment charges were due primarily to changes in market
    liquidity and spreads. Partially offsetting these decreases were
    higher partnership income, increased gains on real estate
    investments and a gain of $398 million on the sale of a
    portion of AIG s investment in Blackstone in connection
    with its initial public offering. Revenues increased in 2007
    compared to 2006 periods as a result of consolidating several
    warehoused investments. AIG consolidates the operating results
    of warehoused investments until such time as they are sold or
    otherwise divested. A portion of these amounts is offset in
    minority interest expense, which is not a component of operating
    income (loss).

120    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Spread-Based
    Investment Business Results   

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

The Spread-Based Investment business reported increased
    operating losses in 2008 compared to 2007 due to significantly
    higher net realized capital losses and lower partnership income.
    Net realized capital losses were $8.6 billion in 2008
    compared to $1.3 billion in 2007. The increase in net
    realized capital losses for 2008 primarily consists of an
    increase of $6.4 billion in other-than-temporary impairment
    charges on fixed maturity securities for both the GIC and MIP,
    higher net mark-to-market losses of $1.2 billion on
    interest rate and foreign exchange hedges not qualifying for
    hedge accounting treatment for both the GIC and MIP and higher
    net mark-to-market losses of $374 million on credit default
    swap investments held by the MIP due to the widening of
    corporate credit spreads. The MIP credit default swaps are
    comprised of single-name investment grade corporate exposures.
    AIG enters into derivative arrangements to hedge the effect of
    changes in currency and interest rates associated with the fixed
    and floating rate and foreign currency denominated obligations
    issued under these programs. Some of these hedging relationships
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not, and
    although being effective economic hedges, creates volatility in
    operating results. Partially offsetting these declines were
    increased net foreign exchange gains on foreign denominated GIC
    reserves and MIP liabilities of $1.3 billion.

The increase in other-than-temporary impairment charges on fixed
    maturity securities held in the GIC and MIP portfolios were
    $3.2 billion for the GIC and $3.2 billion for the MIP
    in 2008, primarily resulting from severity and credit losses and
    the change in AIG s intent to hold securities to recovery
    related to both the U.S. securities lending portfolio and
    its general portfolios. See Investments   Portfolio
    Review   Other-Than-Temporary Impairments.

In the GIC program, income from partnership investments
    decreased $1.4 billion for 2008 compared to 2007 due to
    significantly higher returns in the 2007 period and weaker
    market conditions in 2008. GIC income was also affected by
    higher net mark-to-market losses of $676 million on
    interest rate and foreign exchange hedges not qualifying for
    hedge accounting treatment. Offsetting these declines were net
    foreign exchange gains on foreign-denominated GIC reserves which
    increased by $1.2 billion in 2008 compared to 2007 as a
    result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. As noted
    below, a significant portion of these GIC reserves mature in the
    next twelve months. The derivative losses included net
    mark-to-market losses on interest rate and foreign exchange
    derivatives used to economically hedge the effect of interest
    rate and foreign exchange rate movements on GIC reserves.
    Although these economic hedges are partially effective in
    hedging the interest rate and foreign exchange risk, AIG has not
    applied hedge accounting treatment.

The MIP recognized an operating loss, due to net realized
    capital losses, of $4.8 billion in 2008, and an operating
    loss of $794 million in 2007.

AIG did not issue any additional debt to fund the MIP in 2008
    and does not intend to issue any additional debt for the
    foreseeable future. Through December 31, 2008, the MIP had
    cumulative debt issuances of $13.4 billion. During 2007,
    AIG issued the equivalent of $8.1 billion of securities to
    fund the MIP in the Euromarkets and the U.S. public and
    private markets. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for a schedule of maturities of the MIP debt.

The GIC program is in runoff with no new GICs issued
    subsequent to 2005. The anticipated runoff of the domestic GIC
    portfolio was as follows: 

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

The Spread-Based Investment business reported an operating loss
    in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 due to foreign
    exchange, interest rate and credit-related mark-to-market losses
    and other-than-temporary impairment charges on fixed income
    investments, partially offset by increased partnership income.
    In 2007, the GIC program incurred foreign exchange losses of
    $526 million on foreign-denominated GIC reserves. Partially
    offsetting these losses were $269 million of net
    mark-to-market gains on derivative positions. These net gains
    included mark-to-market gains on foreign exchange derivatives
    used to economically hedge the effect of foreign

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    121 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

exchange rate movements on foreign-denominated GIC reserves and
    mark-to-market losses on interest rate hedges that did not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment.

The MIP experienced mark-to-market losses of $193 million
    due to interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions
    that, while partially effective in hedging interest rate and
    foreign exchange risk, did not qualify for hedge accounting
    treatment and an additional $98 million due to credit
    default swap losses. The mark-to-market losses for 2007 were
    driven primarily by a decline in short-term interest rates, the
    decline in the value of the U.S. dollar and widening credit
    spreads.

Also contributing to the operating loss were
    other-than-temporary impairment charges on various fixed
    maturity investments held in the GIC and MIP portfolios of
    approximately $836 million as a result of movements in
    credit spreads and decreased market liquidity. See
    Investments   Portfolio Review  
    Other-Than-Temporary Impairments. These losses were partially
    offset by an increase in partnership income associated with the
    GIC.

Institutional
    Asset Management Results   

2008
    and 2007 Comparison   

Institutional Asset Management recognized an operating loss in
    2008 compared to operating income in 2007, primarily resulting
    from the difficult market conditions in 2008 in the private
    equity, hedge fund and real estate environments. The operating
    loss reflects higher net equity losses and impairment charges of
    $330 million and lower net realized capital gains of
    $211 million on real estate investments, and lower carried
    interest of $209 million. Due to the current global real
    estate market conditions, several of AIG Global Real
    Estate s investments were deemed to be impaired, and
    several equity investments were written off during 2008. These
    impairments and write-offs totaled $269 million. The
    reduction in carried interest revenues was driven by lower net
    unrealized carry due to higher fund performance in 2007 and
    significantly lower fund performance in 2008.

Increased losses from warehoused investments of $92 million
    were incurred as such investments were not able to be sold or
    otherwise divested as originally contemplated. Such assets are
    now considered proprietary investments of the Institutional
    Asset Management business. Total operating losses including
    funding costs from these investments for 2008 and 2007 were
    $257 million and $165 million, respectively, with 2008
    reflecting a full-year of such losses compared to a partial year
    in 2007. Of these operating losses, $142 million and
    $35 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively, are offset in
    minority interest expense, which is not a component of operating
    income (loss).

Additional losses resulted from a decrease in securities lending
    fees of $60 million as the U.S. securities lending
    program was terminated and restructuring-related expenses of
    $43 million primarily related to employee-related costs
    associated with the intended divestment of various asset
    management businesses, including AIG Private Bank. Included in
    the 2007 results was a $398 million gain related to the
    sale of a portion of AIG s investment in Blackstone.

AIG s unaffiliated client assets under management,
    including retail mutual funds and institutional accounts, were
    $68.9 billion and $97.6 billion at December 31,
    2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The decline from
    December 31, 2007 reflects lower asset values due to the
    significant deterioration in the credit and equity markets
    during 2008 as well as the effect of net client outflows.
    Although there was a significant decline in end of period
    unaffiliated client assets under management, average assets
    under management decreased nominally in 2008 compared to 2007
    and resulted in slightly lower base management fees.

2007
    and 2006 Comparison   

Operating income for Institutional Asset Management increased in
    2007 compared to 2006 reflecting increased carried interest
    revenues driven by higher valuations of portfolio investments
    that are generally associated with improved performance in the
    equity markets. The increase also reflects the $398 million
    gain from the sale of a portion of AIG s investment in
    Blackstone in connection with its initial public offering. Also
    contributing to this increase were higher base management fees
    driven by higher levels of third-party assets under management.
    Partially offsetting these increases were the operating losses
    from warehousing activities. The consolidated warehoused private
    equity investments are not wholly owned by AIG and thus, a
    significant portion of the effect of consolidating these
    operating losses is offset in minority interest, which is not a
    component of operating income.

122    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Brokerage
    Services and Mutual Funds   

Revenues and operating income related to Brokerage Services and
    Mutual Fund activities decreased in 2008 from 2007 due to lower
    fee income as a result of a lower asset base and a decline in
    commission income resulting from difficult market conditions. In
    addition, restructuring expenses of $24 million were
    recorded in 2008 primarily related to employee costs.

Other
    Asset Management Results   

Revenues and operating income related to Other Asset Management
    activities declined in 2008 from 2007 and increased in 2007 from
    2006, due to changes in partnership income driven by weaker
    market conditions in 2008 and 2006 compared to strong market
    conditions in 2007.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (GAAP) requires the application of accounting policies
    that often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG
    considers that its accounting policies that are most dependent
    on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore
    viewed as critical accounting estimates, to be those relating to
    items considered by management in the determination of
    AIG s ability to continue as a going concern, liability for
    general insurance unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses,
    future policy benefits for life and accident and health
    contracts, recoverability of DAC, estimated gross profits for
    investment-oriented products, the allowance for finance
    receivable losses, flight equipment recoverability,
    other-than-temporary impairments, goodwill impairment, estimates
    with respect to income taxes and fair value measurements of
    certain financial assets and liabilities, including credit
    default swaps. These accounting estimates require the use of
    assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at
    the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs
    from the assumptions used, AIG s results of operations
    would be directly affected.

The major categories for which assumptions are developed and
    used to establish each critical accounting estimate are
    highlighted below.

AIG s
    Ability to Continue as a Going Concern   

When assessing AIG s ability to continue as a going
    concern, management must make judgments and estimates about the
    following:

the marketability of assets to be disposed of and the timing and
    amount of related cash proceeds to be used to repay indebtedness;

plans to raise new funds or restructure debt;

projections of future profitability and the timing and amount of
    cash flows from operating activities;

the funding needs of regulated subsidiaries;

AIG s ability to comply with debt covenants;

plans to reduce expenditures;

the effects of ratings agency actions on collateral requirements
    and other contractual conditions; and

the future regulatory, business, credit, and competitive
    environments in which AIG operates around the world.

These factors individually and collectively will have a
    significant effect on AIG s ability to generate sufficient
    cash to repay indebtedness as it becomes due and profitably
    operate its businesses as it executes its restructuring
    initiatives.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    123 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Liability
    for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses (General
    Insurance):   

Loss trend factors:   used to establish expected
    loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on premium rate
    adequacy and the projected loss ratio with respect to prior
    accident years.

Expected loss ratios for the latest accident
    year:   in this case, accident year 2008 for the
    year-end 2008 loss reserve analysis. For low-frequency,
    high-severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss
    ratios generally are utilized for at least the three most recent
    accident years.

Loss development factors:   used to project the
    reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate amount.

Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses:   the
    expected recoveries from reinsurers on losses that have not yet
    been reported
     and/or 
    settled.

For discussion of sensitivity analysis on the reserve for unpaid
    claims and claims adjustment expenses, see Results of
    Operations   Segment Results   General
    Insurance Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and
    Claims Adjustment Expense.

Future
    Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Contracts (Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services):   

Interest rates:   which vary by geographical
    region, year of issuance and products.

Mortality, morbidity and surrender
    rates:   based upon actual experience by
    geographical region modified to allow for variation in policy
    form, risk classification and distribution channel.

Periodically, the net benefit reserves (policy benefit reserves
    less DAC) established for Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services companies are tested to ensure that, including
    consideration of future expected premium payments, they are
    adequate to provide for future policyholder benefit obligations.
    The assumptions used to perform the tests are current
    best-estimate assumptions as to policyholder mortality,
    morbidity, terminations, company maintenance expenses and
    invested asset returns. For long duration traditional business,
    a  lock-in  principle applies, whereby the assumptions
    used to calculate the benefit reserves and DAC are set when a
    policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual
    experience. These assumptions include margins for adverse
    deviation in the event that actual experience might deviate from
    these assumptions. For business in-force outside of North
    America, 52 percent of total policyholder benefit
    liabilities at December 31, 2008 resulted from traditional
    business where the lock-in principle applies. In most foreign
    locations, various guarantees are embedded in policies in force
    that may remain applicable for many decades into the future.

As experience changes over time, the best-estimate assumptions
    are updated to reflect observed changes. Because of the
    long-term nature of many of AIG s liabilities subject to
    the lock-in principle, small changes in certain of the
    assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve
    adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested
    asset return assumptions have a large effect on the degree of
    reserve adequacy.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs (Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services):   

Recoverability:   based on current and future
    expected profitability, which is affected by interest rates,
    foreign exchange rates, mortality/morbidity experience,
    expenses, investment returns and policy persistency.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs (General Insurance):   

Recoverability:   based upon the current terms
    and profitability of the underlying insurance contracts.

Estimated
    Gross Profits for Investment-Oriented Products (Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services):   

Estimated gross profits:   to be realized over
    the estimated duration of the contracts (investment-oriented
    products) affect the carrying value of DAC, unearned revenue
    liability, SIAs and associated amortization patterns. Estimated
    gross profits include investment income and gains and losses on
    investments less required interest, actual mortality and other
    expenses.

124    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Allowance
    for Finance Receivable Losses (Financial
    Services):   

Historical defaults and delinquency
    experience:   utilizing factors, such as
    delinquency ratio, allowance ratio, charge-off ratio and
    charge-off coverage.

Portfolio characteristics:   portfolio
    composition and consideration of the recent changes to
    underwriting criteria and portfolio seasoning.

External factors:   consideration of current
    economic conditions, including levels of unemployment and
    personal bankruptcies.

Migration analysis:   empirical technique
    measuring historical movement of similar finance receivables
    through various levels of repayment, delinquency, and loss
    categories to existing finance receivable pools.

Flight
    Equipment Recoverability (Financial Services):   

Expected undiscounted future net cash
    flows:   based upon current lease rates, projected
    future lease rates and estimated terminal values of each
    aircraft based on expectations of market participants.

Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairments:   

AIG evaluates its available for sale, equity method and cost
    method investments for impairment such that a security is
    considered a  candidate  for other-than-temporary
    impairment if it meets any of the following criteria:

Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to
    par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of
    time (nine consecutive months or longer);

The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in
    (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding
    obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from
    creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended
    for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or
    (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization
    pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims
    for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower
    than par value of their claims; or

AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment,
    regardless of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events.

The determination that a security has incurred an
    other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of
    management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the
    issuer, its near-term prospects and all the relevant facts and
    circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of
    a rapid and severe market valuation decline, such as that
    experienced in current credit markets, in which AIG could not
    reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary
    (severity losses). For further discussion, see
    Investments   Portfolio Review  
    Other-Than-Temporary Impairments.

At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its available for sale
    securities holdings with unrealized losses. When AIG does not
    intend to hold or lacks the ability to hold such securities
    until they have recovered their cost basis, AIG records the
    unrealized loss in income. If a loss is recognized from a sale
    subsequent to a balance sheet date pursuant to changes in
    circumstances, the loss is recognized in the period in which the
    intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer existed.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity
    securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG
    generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the
    reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over
    the remaining life of the security.

Goodwill
    Impairment   

Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over
    the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired
    business. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more
    frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have
    occurred. During 2008, AIG performed goodwill impairment tests
    at June 30, September 30, and December 31.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    125 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which
    an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and,
    if potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is
    measured and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting
    unit level or, when all reporting units that comprise an
    operating segment have similar economic characteristics,
    impairment is tested at the operating segment level.

Management initially assesses the potential for impairment by
    estimating the fair value of each of AIG s reporting units
    or operating segments and comparing the estimated fair values
    with the carrying amounts of those reporting units, including
    allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting unit s fair
    value may be based on one or a combination of approaches
    including market-based earning multiples of the unit s peer
    companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external
    appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered
    for sale, third-party indications of fair value, if available.
    Management considers one or more of these estimates when
    determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the
    impairment test. As part of the impairment test, management
    compares the sum of the estimated fair values of AIG s
    reporting units with AIG s fully diluted common stock
    market capitalization as a basis for concluding on the
    reasonableness of the estimated reporting unit fair values.

If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its
    carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value
    of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill
    associated with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The
    amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the
    carrying value of goodwill over the estimated fair value of the
    goodwill. The estimated fair value of the goodwill is measured
    as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the
    amounts that would be assigned to the reporting unit s
    assets and liabilities in a hypothetical business combination.
    An impairment charge is recognized in income to the extent of
    the excess. During 2008, AIG recorded an aggregate goodwill
    impairment charge of $4.1 billion. This impairment charge
    was primarily attributable to declines in estimated fair values
    of reporting units in the Property and Casualty Group, Domestic
    Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services, Consumer
    Finance and Capital Markets businesses attributable to the
    uncertain economic environment during the 2008 fourth quarter.

Management observed a narrowing of the fair values over the
    carrying values of the Foreign General Insurance and
    Institutional Asset Management reporting units during the fourth
    quarter of 2008. Fair value exceeded book value in the Foreign
    General Insurance, Foreign Life Insurance   Retirements
    Services   Japan   Other, and Institutional Asset
    Management reporting units as of December 31, 2008;
    therefore, the goodwill of these reporting units was considered
    not impaired. AIG s stock price, along with the stock
    prices of other companies in the financial services industry,
    including insurers, has continued to decline in 2009. AIG will
    continue to monitor overall competitive, business and economic
    conditions, and other events or circumstances that might result
    in an impairment of goodwill in the future.

Valuation
    Allowance on Deferred Tax Assets:   

At December 31, 2008, AIG recorded a net deferred tax asset
    after valuation allowance of $11 billion compared to a net
    deferred tax liability of $5.3 billion at December 31,
    2007. SFAS 109 permits this asset to be recorded if the
    asset meets a more likely than not standard (i.e. more than
    50 percent likely) that the asset will be realized.
    Realization of AIG s net deferred tax asset depends on
    AIG s ability to generate sufficient future taxable income
    of the appropriate character within carryforward periods of the
    jurisdictions in which the net operating and capital losses, tax
    credits and deductible temporary differences were incurred.
    Because the realization of the deferred tax asset relies on a
    projection of future income, AIG views this as a critical
    accounting estimate.

In making this estimate, AIG considered its ability to execute
    its divestiture plan at the values anticipated and within the
    timeframe expected. The realization of the deferred tax asset is
    highly dependent on the ability of AIG to generate significant
    gains from these transactions.

AIG is also relying upon producing taxable operating profits
    from the businesses to be retained, principally Commercial
    Insurance and Foreign General Insurance. AIG has evaluated its
    forecasts of future operating income and determined that there
    would be sufficient operating income, inclusive of gains on the
    divestiture of businesses. There are many risk factors that
    could affect the attainment of AIG s budgeted results. See
    Item 1A. Risk Factors.

When making its assessment about the realization of its deferred
    tax assets at December 31, 2008, AIG considered all available
    evidence, including (i) the nature, frequency, and severity of
    current and cumulative financial reporting losses, (ii) actions
    completed during 2008 and expected to be completed during 2009
    that are

126    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

designed to eliminate or limit a recurrence of the factors that
    contributed to the recent cumulative losses, giving greater
    weight to actions completed through December 31, 2008 and
    to the expectation that strategies will be executed in 2009 to
    mitigate credit losses in the future on certain classes of
    invested assets, (iii) the carryforward periods for the net
    operating and capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards,
    (iv) the sources and timing of future taxable income, giving
    greater weight to discrete sources and to earlier future years
    in the forecast period, and (v) tax planning strategies that
    would be implemented, if necessary, to accelerate taxable
    amounts.

In assessing future GAAP taxable income, AIG considered its
    strong earnings history exclusive of the recent losses on the
    AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio and from the
    securities lending program. AIG also considered the completed
    transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of
    the Treasury, including (i) amendment to the Fed Credit
    Agreement designed to reduce the interest rate payable on
    outstanding borrowing and undrawn amounts; (ii) the transfer of
    RMBS related to AIG s U.S. securities lending program to
    ML II; and (iii) the termination of multi-sector
    credit default swap transactions and sale of underlying CDOs to
    ML III.

In addition, AIG also considered the proposed transactions with
    the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury
    announced on March 2, 2009, including (i) the modification
    of the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock;
    (ii) establishment of a equity capital commitment facility
    for the sales of Series F Preferred Stock to the United
    States Department of the Treasury, along with warrants to
    purchase shares of common stock; and (iii) amendment to the Fed
    Credit Agreement designed to reduce the interest rate payable on
    outstanding borrowing by revising the LIBOR floor. These
    transactions are designed to enhance AIG s ability to
    generate taxable income from the sales of businesses under its
    asset disposition plan, continue the earnings strength of the
    insurance businesses it intends to sell, and underscore the
    United States Government s commitment to the orderly
    restructuring of AIG over time in the face of continuing market
    dislocations and economic deterioration.

The forecast of taxable income was prepared using budgets
    submitted by each of AIG s significant operating units for
    management planning purposes and is consistent with the forecast
    used in AIG s going concern analysis. AIG s
    profitability in any given period can be materially affected by
    conditions in global financial markets, economic conditions,
    catastrophes and other events around the world and, currently,
    AIG-specific events. Further, the results of operations in the
    first quarter of 2009 may not be indicative of the results
    expected for the full year because the transactions being
    discussed with the United States Department of the Treasury and
    the NY Fed are not expected to be in place. However, AIG
    believes its forecasts are achievable.

Income
    Taxes on Earnings of Certain Foreign Subsidiaries:   

In connection with AIG s asset disposition plan, AIG
    determined it can no longer assert that earnings of its foreign
    subsidiaries will be indefinitely reinvested. Due to the
    complexity of the U.S. federal income tax laws involved in
    determining the amount of income taxes incurred on these
    potential dispositions, as well as AIG s reliance on
    reasonable assumptions and estimates in calculating this
    liability, AIG considers the U.S. federal income taxes
    accrued on the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be a
    critical accounting estimate.

Fair
    Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and
    Liabilities:   

Overview  

AIG measures at fair value on a recurring basis financial
    instruments in its trading and available for sale securities
    portfolios, certain mortgage and other loans receivable, certain
    spot commodities, derivative assets and liabilities, securities
    purchased (sold) under agreements to resell (repurchase),
    securities lending invested collateral, non-marketable equity
    investments included in other invested assets, certain
    policyholder contract deposits, securities and spot commodities
    sold but not yet purchased, certain trust deposits and deposits
    due to banks and other depositors, certain long-term debt, and
    certain hybrid financial instruments included in other
    liabilities. The fair value of a financial instrument is the
    amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
    transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing,
    able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement
    date.

The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of
    financial instruments generally correlates with the level of
    pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices
    in active markets generally have more pricing observability and
    less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely,
    financial instruments traded in

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    127 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

other-than-active markets or that do not have quoted prices have
    less observability and are measured at fair value using
    valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more
    judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the
    asset or liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency
    and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
    An other-than-active market is one in which there are few
    transactions, the prices are not current, price quotations vary
    substantially either over time or among market makers, or in
    which little information is released publicly for the asset or
    liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a
    number of factors, including the type of financial instrument,
    whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not
    yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction
    and general market conditions.

AIG management is responsible for the determination of the value
    of the financial assets and financial liabilities carried at
    fair value and the supporting methodologies and assumptions.
    With respect to securities, AIG employs independent third-party
    valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret
    market information and derive fair values based upon relevant
    methodologies and assumptions for individual instruments. When
    AIG s valuation service providers are unable to obtain
    sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate
    the fair value for a particular security, fair value is
    determined either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable
    about these securities to provide a quote, which is generally
    non-binding, or by employing widely accepted internal valuation
    models.

Valuation service providers typically obtain data about market
    transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple
    sources and, through the use of widely accepted internal
    valuation models, provide a single fair value measurement for
    individual securities for which a fair value has been requested
    under the terms of service agreements. The inputs used by the
    valuation service providers include, but are not limited to,
    market prices from recently completed transactions and
    transactions of comparable securities, interest rate yield
    curves, credit spreads, currency rates, and other
    market-observable information, as applicable. The valuation
    models take into account, among other things, market observable
    information as of the measurement date as well as the specific
    attributes of the security being valued including its term,
    interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and when
    applicable, collateral quality and other issue or
    issuer-specific information. When market transactions or other
    market observable data is limited, the extent to which judgment
    is applied in determining fair value is greatly increased.

AIG employs specific control processes to determine the
    reasonableness of the fair values of AIG s financial assets
    and financial liabilities. AIG s processes are designed to
    ensure that the values received or internally estimated are
    accurately recorded and that the data inputs and the valuation
    techniques utilized are appropriate, consistently applied, and
    that the assumptions are reasonable and consistent with the
    objective of determining fair value. AIG assesses the
    reasonableness of individual security values received from
    valuation service providers through various analytical
    techniques. In addition, AIG may validate the reasonableness of
    fair values by comparing information obtained from AIG s
    valuation service providers to other third-party valuation
    sources for selected securities. AIG also validates prices for
    selected securities obtained from brokers through reviews by
    members of management who have relevant expertise and who are
    independent of those charged with executing investing
    transactions.

The fair value of fixed income and equity securities by
    source of value determination was as follows: 

(a)   

Includes $45.8 billion whose primary source is broker
    quotes.  

(b)   

Includes available for sale, trading and securities lending
    invested collateral securities.  

128    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    more detailed information about AIG s accounting policy for
    the incorporation of credit risk in fair value measurements and
    the measurement of fair value of the following financial assets
    and financial liabilities:

Fixed maturity securities;

Equity securities traded in active markets   trading
    and available for sale;

Non-traded equity investments   other invested assets;

Private limited partnership and hedge fund
    investments   other invested assets;

Separate account assets;

Freestanding derivatives;

Embedded policy derivatives;

AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio; and

Policyholder contract deposits.

Level 3
    Assets and Liabilities  

Under FAS 157, assets and liabilities recorded at fair
    value in the consolidated balance sheet are classified in a
    hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three
     levels  based on the observability of inputs
    available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. See
    Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information about fair value measurements.

At December 31, 2008, AIG classified $42.1 billion and
    $21.1 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, measured
    at fair value on a recurring basis as Level 3. This
    represented 4.9 percent and 2.6 percent of the total
    assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on
    a recurring basis. Level 3 fair value measurements are
    based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant
    input that is unobservable. These measurements are made under
    circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity
    for the asset or liability. AIG s assessment of the
    significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement
    in its entirety requires judgment.

In making the assessment, AIG considers factors specific to the
    asset or liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure
    fair value of an asset or a liability may fall into different
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in
    the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement
    in its entirety is classified is determined based on the lowest
    level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in
    its entirety.

Valuation
    of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities    

AIG values its assets and liabilities classified as Level 3
    using judgment and valuation models or other pricing techniques
    that require a variety of inputs including contractual terms,
    market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures
    of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs,
    some of which may be unobservable. The following paragraphs
    describe the methods AIG uses to measure on a recurring basis
    the fair value of the major classes of assets and liabilities
    classified in Level 3.

Private equity and real estate fund
    investments:   These assets initially are valued at
    the transaction price, i.e., the price paid to acquire the
    asset. Subsequently, they are measured based on net asset value
    using information provided by the general partner or manager of
    these investments, the accounts of which generally are audited
    on an annual basis. AIG considers observable market data and
    performs diligence procedures in validating the appropriateness
    of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement.

Corporate bonds and private placement
    debt:   These assets initially are valued at the
    transaction price. Subsequently, they are valued using market
    data for similar instruments (e.g., recent transactions, bond
    spreads or credit default swap spreads), comparisons to
    benchmark derivative indices or movements in underlying credit
    spreads. When observable price quotations are not available,
    fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield
    curves, bond or single-name credit default swap spreads and
    estimated recovery rates.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    129 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Certain Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) and
    Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS):  These assets
    initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently,
    they may be valued by comparison to transactions in instruments
    with similar collateral and risk profiles, remittances received
    and updated cumulative loss data on underlying obligations,
    discounted cash flow techniques,
     and/or  for
    RMBS option adjusted spread analyses.

Certain Asset-Backed Securities  
    non-mortgage:   These assets initially are valued
    at the transaction price. Subsequently, they may be valued based
    on external price/spread data. When position-specific external
    price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices
    of comparable securities.

CDOs:   These assets initially are valued at the
    transaction price. Subsequently, they are valued based on
    external price/spread data from independent third parties,
    dealer quotations, matrix pricing, the BET model or a
    combination thereof.

Interests in ML II and ML III:   At
    their inception, AIG s economic interest in ML II and
    membership interest in ML III (Maiden Lane Interests) were
    valued at the transaction prices of $1 billion and
    $5 billion, respectively. Subsequently, Maiden Lane
    Interests are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology
    that uses the estimated future cash flows of the assets to which
    the Maiden Lane Interests are entitled and the discount rates
    applicable to such interests as derived from the fair value of
    the entire asset pool. The implicit discount rates are
    calibrated to the changes in the estimated asset values for the
    underlying assets commensurate with AIG s interests in the
    capital structure of the respective entities. Estimated cash
    flows and discount rates used in the valuations are validated,
    to the extent possible, using market observable information for
    securities with similar asset pools, structure and terms.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    further discussion.

AIGFP s Super Senior Credit Default Swap
    Portfolio:   AIGFP wrote credit protection on the
    super senior risk layer of collateralized loan obligations
    (CLOs), multi-sector CDOs and diversified portfolios of
    corporate debt, and prime residential mortgages. In these
    transactions, AIGFP is at risk of credit performance on the
    super senior risk layer related to such assets. These
    transactions placed a significant demand on AIGFP s
    liquidity during 2008, primarily as a result of their collateral
    posting provisions (see General Contractual Terms below). To a
    lesser extent, AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below the
    super senior risk layer, primarily in respect of regulatory
    capital relief transactions.

As discussed under Arbitrage Portfolio and ML III
    Transaction below, during the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG
    Financial Products Corp. terminated the vast majority of the
    credit default swaps it had written on multi-sector CDOs. See
    Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    discussion.

The net notional amount, fair value of derivative liability
    and unrealized market valuation loss of the AIGFP super senior
    credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps
    written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital
    relief transactions, by asset class were as follows: 

130    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(a)   

There were no unrealized market valuation losses in 2006.  

(b)   

Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural
    subordination below the covered tranches.  

(c)   

Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of
    counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral
    in accordance with FIN 39.  

(d)   

Includes credit valuation adjustment gains of
    $185 million in 2008 representing the positive effect of
    AIG s widening credit spreads on the valuation of the
    derivatives liabilities. AIGFP began reflecting this valuation
    adjustment as a result of the adoption of SFAS 157 on
    January 1, 2008. Prior to January 1, 2008, a credit
    valuation adjustment was not reflected in the valuation of
    AIGFP s liabilities.  

(e)   

During 2008, a European RMBS regulatory capital relief
    transaction was not terminated as expected when it no longer
    provided regulatory capital relief to the counterparty as a
    result of arbitrage opportunities arising from its unique
    attributes and the counterparty s access to a particular
    funding source.  

(f)   

Includes $9.7 billion in net notional amount of credit
    default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at
    December 31, 2008. In connection with the terminations of
    CDS transactions in respect of the ML III transaction, AIG
    Financial Products Corp. paid $32.5 billion through the
    surrender of collateral previously posted (net of the
    $2.5 billion received pursuant to the shortfall agreement),
    of which $2.5 billion (included in Other income (loss)) is
    related to certain 2a-7 Put transactions written on multi-sector
    CDOs purchased by ML III.  

(g)   

Includes $1.5 billion of credit default swaps written on
    the super senior tranches of CLOs as of December 31,
    2008.  

(h)   

Includes offsetting purchased CDS of $2.0 billion and
    $2.7 billion in net notional amount at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.  

The changes in the net notional amount of the AIGFP super
    senior credit default swap portfolio, including credit default
    swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory
    capital relief transactions were as follows: 

For The
    Year Ended December 31, 2008  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    131 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(a)   

Includes $8.5 billion of multi-sector CDOs underlying
     2a-7  Puts
    written by AIG Financial Products Corp.  

(b)   

Relates to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, primarily
    against the Euro and the British Pound.  

(c)   

During 2008, a European RMBS regulatory capital relief
    transaction was not terminated as expected when it no longer
    provided regulatory capital relief to the counterparty as a
    result of arbitrage opportunities arising from its unique
    attributes and the counterparty s access to a particular
    funding source.  

General
    Contractual Terms   

AIGFP entered into CDS transactions in the ordinary course of
    its business. In the majority of AIGFP s credit derivative
    transactions, AIGFP sold credit protection on a designated
    portfolio of loans or debt securities. Generally, AIGFP provides
    such credit protection on a  second loss  basis,
    meaning that AIGFP will incur credit losses only after a
    shortfall of principal
     and/or 
    interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected
    loans and debt securities, exceeds a specified threshold amount
    or level of  first loss. 

Typically, the credit risk associated with a designated
    portfolio of loans or debt securities has been tranched into
    different layers of risk, which are then analyzed and rated by
    the credit rating agencies. At origination, there is usually an
    equity layer covering the first credit losses in respect of the
    portfolio up to a specified percentage of the total portfolio,
    and then successive layers ranging generally from a BBB-rated
    layer to one or more AAA-rated layers. A significant majority of
    transactions that are rated by rating agencies have risk layers
    or tranches that were rated AAA at origination and are
    immediately junior to the threshold level above which
    AIGFP s payment obligation would generally arise. In
    transactions that were not rated, AIGFP applied equivalent risk
    criteria for setting the threshold level for its payment
    obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed by AIGFP with
    respect to the designated portfolio of loans or debt securities
    in these transactions is often called the  super
    senior  risk layer, defined as a layer of credit risk
    senior to one or more risk layers that have been rated AAA by
    the credit rating agencies, or if the transaction is not rated,
    structured to the equivalent thereto.

132    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following graphic represents a typical structure of a
    transaction including the super senior risk layer:

Regulatory
    Capital Portfolio  

A total of $234.4 billion (consisting of corporate loans
    and prime residential mortgages) in net notional exposure of
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio as of
    December 31, 2008 represented derivatives written for
    financial institutions, principally in Europe, for the purpose
    of providing regulatory capital relief rather than for arbitrage
    purposes. These transactions were entered into by Banque AIG,
    AIGFP s French regulated bank subsidiary, and written on
    diversified pools of residential mortgages and corporate loans
    (made to both large corporations and small to medium sized
    enterprises). In exchange for a periodic fee, the counterparties
    receive credit protection with respect to diversified loan
    portfolios they own, thus reducing their minimum capital
    requirements.

The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFP s
    financial institution counterparties is generally derived from
    the terms of the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on
    Banking Supervision (Basel I) that existed through the end
    of 2007 and which is in the process of being replaced by the
    Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital
    Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee
    on Banking Supervision (Basel II). Prior to the adoption of
    Basel II, a financial institution was required to hold capital
    against its assets, based on the categorization of the issuer or
    guarantor of the assets. One of the means for a financial
    institution to reduce its required regulatory capital was to
    purchase credit protection on a group of its assets from a
    regulated financial institution, such as Banque AIG, in order to
    benefit from such regulated financial institution s lower
    risk weighting (e.g., 20 percent vs. 100 percent) that
    is assigned to those assets under Basel I. A lower risk
    weighting reduces the amount of capital a financial institution
    is required to hold against such assets.

Unlike Basel I, Basel II gives credit to the relative
    risk of loss associated with the assets, meaning that less
    capital is required for such assets. After a financial
    institution has implemented a capital model that is compliant
    with Basel II and has obtained approval from its local
    regulator, the CDS transactions provide no additional regulatory
    benefit in most cases, except during a transition period. The
    Basel II implementation includes a transition period during
    which the financial institutions must calculate their capital
    requirements under both Basel I and Basel II (until
    December 31, 2009). During this period, the capital
    required is  floored  at a percentage of the Basel I
    capital calculation; therefore, until early 2010, these CDS
    transactions may still provide regulatory capital benefit for
    AIGFP s counterparties, depending on each
    counterparty s particular circumstances. In addition, in a
    limited number of instances, counterparties may decide to hold
    these CDSs for a longer period of time because they provide a
    regulatory capital benefit, while smaller, under Basel II.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    133 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Given the prospect of Basel II, the CDS transactions were
    structured with early termination rights for counterparties
    following a regulatory event such as the implementation of Basel
    II. The pace at which the CDS transactions were and will be
    terminated early varies among the counterparties based on a
    number of factors including their progress in having the
    internal capital models approved by their national regulator,
    the effect of the transitional floor on overall total capital
    charges, the counterparties  capital needs and their
    sensitivity to Basel I capital measures. AIG expects that the
    counterparties in the remaining CDS transactions will terminate
    the vast majority of transactions with AIGFP during this
    transition period within the next 15 months.

When a counterparty elects to terminate a transaction early
    pursuant to the terms of the contracts, the early termination is
    at no cost to AIGFP. The counterparty may be required to pay the
    remaining balance of an
     agreed-upon 
    minimum fee to AIGFP. Typically, the minimum guaranteed fee on
    recent transactions is equal to the fees due to AIGFP through
    the first call date (which is the first date on which a
    counterparty can terminate the transaction at no cost). During
    2008, $99.7 billion in net notional amount was terminated
    or matured. Through February 18, 2009, AIGFP has also received
    formal termination notices for an additional $26.5 billion
    in net notional amount with effective termination dates in 2009.

The regulatory capital relief CDS transactions require cash
    settlement and, other than collateral posting, AIGFP is required
    to make a payment in connection with a regulatory capital relief
    transaction only if realized credit losses in respect of the
    underlying portfolio exceed AIGFP s attachment point (see
    Triggers and Settlement Alternatives below).

The super senior tranches of these CDS transactions continue to
    be supported by high levels of subordination, which, in most
    instances, have increased since origination. The weighted
    average subordination supporting the European residential
    mortgage and corporate loan referenced portfolios at
    December 31, 2008 was 12.7 percent and
    18.3 percent, respectively. Delinquencies, defaults and
    realized losses for both types of referenced portfolios have
    been modest to date. Substantially all of the underlying assets
    are not rated by one of the principal rating agencies. The
    highest level of realized losses to date in any single
    residential mortgage and corporate loan pool was
    2.1 percent and 0.42 percent, respectively. The
    European residential mortgage portfolios are each comprised of
    thousands of seasoned, prime, full documentation, mostly first
    lien, owner-occupied mortgages originated largely at bank retail
    branches at modest loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, except for one
    $1.6 billion high LTV CDS transaction, which benefits from
    both subordination and a significant percentage of pool mortgage
    insurance. The corporate loan transactions are each comprised of
    several hundred secured and unsecured loans diversified by
    industry and, in some instances, by country, and have tight
    per-issuer concentration limits. Both types of transactions
    generally allow some substitution and replenishment of loans,
    subject to tightly defined constraints, as older loans mature or
    are prepaid. These replenishment rights usually mature within
    the first few years of the trade, after which the proceeds of
    any prepaid or maturing loans are applied first to the super
    senior tranche (sequentially), thereby increasing the relative
    level of subordination supporting the balance of AIGFP s
    super senior CDS exposure.

134    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following graph presents subordination level from highest
    to lowest and realized losses as a percent of gross notional
    amount for each regulatory capital relief super senior CDS
    transaction written on a diversified portfolio of corporate
    loans as of December 31, 2008: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    135 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following graph presents subordination level from highest
    to lowest and realized losses as a percent of notional amount
    for each regulatory capital relief super senior CDS transaction
    written on a diversified portfolio of residential mortgages as
    of December 31, 2008: 

Given the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the
    level of subordination and the expectation that counterparties
    will terminate these transactions prior to their maturity; AIG
    Financial Products Corp. does not expect that it will be
    required to make payments pursuant to the contractual terms of
    these transactions.

Arbitrage
    Portfolio  

A total of $63.1 billion in net notional exposure on AIG
    Financial Products Corp. s super senior credit default
    swaps as of December 31, 2008 are arbitrage-motivated
    transactions written on multi-sector CDOs or designated pools of
    investment grade senior unsecured corporate debt or CLOs. While
    certain credit default swaps written on corporate debt and
    multi-sector CDOs provide for cash settlement, $2.8 billion
    in net notional amount of CDS transactions written on
    multi-sector CDOs and all the CDS transactions written on CLOs
    ($1.5 billion net notional) require physical settlement
    (see Triggers and Settlement Alternatives below). The ML
    III transaction eliminated the vast majority of the super
    senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap exposure.

ML III
    Transaction  

On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Master Investment
    and Credit Agreement with the NY Fed, ML III, and The Bank of
    New York Mellon which established arrangements for the purchase
    by ML III of the multi-sector CDOs referenced in certain CDS
    transactions between AIG Financial Products Corp. and its
    counterparties. Concurrently, AIG Financial Products
    Corp. s counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to
    terminate the CDS transactions relating to the multi-sector CDOs
    purchased by ML III.

During 2008, AIG Financial Products Corp. terminated
    multi-sector CDO transactions with a net notional amount of
    $62.1 billion with its counterparties, and concurrently, ML
    III purchased the underlying multi-sector CDOs including
    $8.5 billion of multi-sector CDOs underlying
     2a-7  Puts
    written by AIG Financial Products Corp. The CDS transactions
    terminated in connection with ML III contained physical
    settlement provisions and were denominated in U.S. dollars.
    The net payment made by ML III to the counterparties for
    the purchase of the multi-sector CDOs was $26.8 billion,
    which was funded by AIG s equity interest in ML III in the
    amount of $5 billion and

136    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

$24.3 billion of borrowings under a senior loan from the NY
    Fed to ML III. A portion of the net payment made by ML III to
    the counterparties for the purchase of the multi-sector CDOs
    facilitated the resolution of $8.0 billion of liquidity
    arrangements, which had funded certain of the multi-sector CDOs
    in connection with the
     2a-7  Puts.

In connection with the ML III transaction, AIG Financial
    Products Corp. entered into a Shortfall Agreement, dated
    November 25, 2008 and amended on December 18, 2008
    (the Shortfall Agreement), with ML III under which ML III made a
    payment of $2.5 billion to AIG Financial Products Corp.
    representing the amount by which collateral surrendered as part
    of the termination of the CDS exceeded the fair value of the CDS
    as of October 31, 2008.

Among the multi-sector CDOs purchased by ML III are certain CDO
    securities with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion for
    which the related
     2a-7  Puts to
    AIG Financial Products Corp. remained outstanding as of
    December 31, 2008. For the $252 million notional
    amount of multi-sector CDOs held by ML III with
     2a-7  Puts
    that may be exercised in 2009, ML III has agreed to not sell the
    multi-sector CDOs in 2009 and to either not exercise its put
    option on such multi-sector CDOs or to simultaneously exercise
    their par put option with a par purchase of the multi-sector CDO
    securities. In exchange, AIG Financial Products Corp. has agreed
    to pay to ML III the consideration that it receives for
    providing the put protection. AIG Financial Products Corp. and
    ML III are currently negotiating an agreement that will outline
    procedures to be taken by ML III and AIG Financial Products
    Corp. for multi-sector CDOs with put options that may be
    exercised after December 31, 2009, with the objective of
    mitigating or eliminating the impact on AIG Financial
    Products Corp. of such
     2a-7  Puts
    and capturing the associated economics for ML III.

In connection with the termination of $62.1 billion net
    notional amount of CDS transactions in respect of the
    ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. paid
    $32.5 billion, net of $2.5 billion received in
    connection with the shortfall agreement, through the surrender
    of collateral previously posted. Included in this amount is
    $2.5 billion related to multi-sector CDOs underlying
     2a-7  Puts
    previously written by AIG Financial Products Corp. and sold to
    ML III. As a result of the termination of such CDS, AIG
    Financial Products Corp. is no longer subject to any further
    collateral calls related to such CDS transactions nor subject to
    the risk of having to make a payment to a counterparty to
    physically settle the CDS transactions following the occurrence
    of a credit event, thereby alleviating the demand on
    AIGFP s liquidity.

Multi-Sector
    CDOs   

The gross transaction notional amount of the multi-sector
    CDOs on which AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior
    tranche, subordination below the super senior risk layer, net
    notional amount and fair value of derivative liability by
    underlying collateral type were as follows (excluding
     2a-7 
    Puts): 

(a)   

Total outstanding principal amount of securities held by a
    CDO.  

(b)   

Net notional size on which AIGFP wrote credit protection.  

(c)   

High grade  refers to transactions in which the
    underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand-alone basis were
    predominantly AA or higher at origination.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    137 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

(d)   

Mezzanine  refers to transactions in which the
    underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand-alone basis were
    predominantly A or lower at origination.  

The net notional amounts of the multi-sector CDOs on which
    AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior tranche, by
    settlement alternative, were as follows: 

The following table presents, for each multi-sector CDO that
    is a reference obligation in a CDS written by AIGFP, the gross
    and net notional amounts at December 31, 2008, attachment
    points at inception and at December 31, 2008 and percentage
    of gross notional amount rated less than B-/B3 at
    December 31, 2008: 

*   

Expressed as a percentage of gross notional amount.  

138    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

In a number of instances, the level of subordination with
    respect to individual CDOs has increased since inception
    relative to the overall size of the CDO. While the super senior
    tranches are amortizing, subordinate layers have not been
    reduced by realized losses to date. Such losses are expected to
    emerge in the future. At inception, substantially all of the
    underlying assets were rated B-/B3 or higher and in most cases
    at least BBB. Thus, the percentage of gross notional amount
    rated less than B-/B3 represents deterioration in the credit
    quality of the underlying assets.

The gross transaction notional amount, percentage of the
    total CDO collateral pools, and ratings and vintage breakdown of
    collateral securities in the multi-sector CDOs at
    December 31, 2008, by ABS category, were as follows
    (excluding
     2a-7 
    Puts): 

The corporate arbitrage portfolio consists principally of CDS
    written on portfolios of senior unsecured corporate obligations
    that were generally rated investment grade at the inception of
    the CDS. These CDS transactions require cash settlement (see
    Triggers and Settlement Alternatives below). This portfolio also
    includes CDS with a net notional amount of $1.5 billion
    written on the senior part of the capital structure of CLOs,
    which require physical settlement.

The gross transaction notional amount of CDS transactions
    written on portfolios of senior unsecured corporate obligations
    (excluding CLOs), percentage of the total referenced portfolios,
    and ratings by industry sector, in addition to the
    subordinations below the super senior risk layer and
    AIGFP s net notional exposure at December 31, 2008, by
    industry sector, were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    139 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Triggers
    and Settlement Alternatives  

At December 31, 2008, all outstanding CDS transactions for
    regulatory capital purposes and the majority of the arbitrage
    portfolio (comprising $56.7 billion or 90 percent of
    the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at
    December 31, 2008) have cash-settled structures in
    respect of a basket of reference obligations, where AIGFP s
    payment obligations may be triggered by payment shortfalls,
    bankruptcy and certain other events such as write-downs of the
    value of underlying assets (see Cash Settlement below). For the
    remainder of the CDS transactions in respect of the arbitrage
    portfolio (comprising $6.4 billion or 10 percent of
    the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at
    December 31, 2008), AIGFP s payment obligations are
    triggered by the occurrence of a credit event under a single
    reference security, and performance is limited to a single
    payment by AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the
    counterparty of the reference security (see Physical Settlement
    below). By contrast, at December 31, 2007, under the large
    majority of CDS transactions in respect of multi-sector CDOs
    (comprising $65.6 billion or 44.1 percent of the net
    notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31,
    2007) AIGFP s payment obligations were triggered by
    the occurrence of a non-payment event under a single reference
    CDO security, and performance was limited to a single payment by
    AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the counterparty of the
    reference security.

Cash Settlement.   Transactions requiring cash
    settlement (principally on a  pay as you go  basis)
    are generally in respect of baskets of reference credits (which
    may also include single-name CDS in addition to securities and
    loans) rather than a single reference obligation as in the case
    of the physically settled transactions described below. Under
    these credit default swap transactions:

Each time a  triggering event  occurs a  loss
    amount  is calculated. A triggering event is generally a
    failure by the relevant obligor to pay principal of or, in some
    cases, interest on one of the reference credits in the
    underlying basket. Triggering events may also include bankruptcy
    of the obligors of the reference credits, write-downs or payment
    postponements with respect to interest or to the principal
    amount of a reference credit payable at maturity. The
    determination of the loss amount is specific to each triggering
    event. It can represent the amount of a shortfall in ordinary
    course interest payments on the reference credit, a write-down
    in the interest on or principal of such reference credit or
    payment postponed. It can also represent the difference between
    the notional or par amount of such reference credit and its
    market value, as determined by reference to market quotations. A
     write-down  with respect to a referenced credit may
    arise as a result of a reduction in the outstanding principal
    amount of such referenced credit (other than as a result of a
    scheduled or unscheduled payment of principal), whether caused
    by a principal deficiency, realized loss or forgiveness of
    principal. An implied write-down may also result from the
    existence of a shortfall between the referenced credit s
    pool principal balance and the aggregate balance of all  pari
    passu  obligations and senior securities backed by the same
    pool.

Triggering events can occur multiple times, either as a result
    of continuing shortfalls in interest or write-downs or payment
    postponements on a single reference credit, or as a result of
    triggering events in respect of different reference credits
    included in a protected basket. In connection with each
    triggering event, AIGFP is required to make a cash payment to
    the buyer of protection under the related CDS only if the
    aggregate loss amounts calculated in respect of such triggering
    event and all prior triggering events exceed a specified
    threshold amount (reflecting AIGFP s attachment point).

140    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

If there are reimbursements received (actual or deemed) by the
    CDS buyer in respect of prior triggering events, AIGFP will be
    entitled to receive equivalent amounts from the counterparty to
    the extent AIGFP has previously made a related payment.

Physical Settlement.   For CDS transactions
    requiring physical settlement, AIGFP is generally required to
    pay unpaid principal and accrued interest for the relevant
    reference obligation in return for physical delivery of such
    reference obligation by the CDS buyer upon the occurrence of a
    credit event. After purchasing the reference obligation, AIGFP
    may sell the security and recover all or a portion of the
    purchase price paid under the CDS, or hold such security and be
    entitled to receive subsequent collections of principal and
    interest. AIGFP generally is required to settle such a
    transaction only if the following conditions are satisfied:

A  Credit Event  (as defined in the relevant CDS
    transaction confirmation) must have occurred. In all CDS
    transactions subject to physical settlement,  Failure to
    Pay  is specified as a Credit Event and is generally
    triggered if there is a failure by the issuer under the related
    CDO to make a payment under the reference obligation (after the
    expiration of any applicable grace period and, in certain
    transactions, subject to a nominal non-payment threshold having
    been met).

In addition, certain of the AIGFP CDS (with an aggregate net
    notional amount totaling $265 million and $8.3 billion
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively) provide credit
    protection in respect of CDOs that require minimum amounts of
    collateral to be maintained to support the CDO debt, where the
    notional amount of such collateral, subject to certain
    adjustments, is affected by among other things the ratings of
    the securities and other obligations comprising such collateral.
    In the event that the issuer of such a CDO fails to maintain the
    minimum levels of collateral, an event of default would occur,
    triggering a right by a specified controlling class of CDO note
    holders to accelerate the payment of principal and interest on
    the protected reference obligations. Under certain of the CDSs,
    upon acceleration of the reference obligations underlying a CDS,
    AIGFP may be required to purchase such reference obligations for
    a purchase price equal to unpaid principal of and accrued
    interest on the CDO in settlement of the CDS. As a result of
    this over-collateralization feature of these CDOs, AIGFP
    potentially may be required to purchase such CDO securities in
    settlement of the related CDS sooner than would be required if
    such CDOs did not have an over-collateralization feature. One of
    these CDOs was accelerated in 2008, and AIGFP extinguished its
    CDS obligations by purchasing the protected CDO security for
    $162 million, which equaled the principal amount
    outstanding related to this CDS, of which $103 million was
    recorded in the trading securities portfolio and
    $59 million was recorded in the available for sale
    portfolio. AIGFP  had no CDS net notional exposure with respect
    to CDOs that have experienced over-collateralization events of
    default at February 18, 2009.

In addition to subordination, cash flow diversion mechanics may
    provide further protection from losses for holders of the super
    senior CDO securities. Following the acceleration of a CDO
    security, all, or a portion of, available cash flows in a CDO
    could be diverted from the junior tranches to the most senior
    tranches. In a CDO with such a feature, the junior tranches may
    not receive any cash flows until all interest on, and principal
    of, the super senior tranches are paid in full. Thus, potential
    losses borne by the holders of the super senior CDO securities
    may be mitigated as cash flows that would otherwise be payable
    to junior tranches throughout the entire CDO capital structure
    are instead diverted directly to the most senior tranches. Cash
    flow diversion mechanics also may arise in the context of
    over-collateralization tests. Upon a failure by the CDO issuer
    to comply with certain over-collateralization tests (other than
    those that trigger an indenture event of default), cash flows
    that would otherwise be payable to certain junior tranches
    throughout the CDO capital structure may instead be diverted to
    more senior tranches. Consequently, the super senior risk layer
    is paid down at a faster rate, effectively increasing the
    relative level of subordination.

The existence of a tranche of securities ranking  pari passu
     with the super senior CDO securities does not provide
    additional subordination that protects holders of the super
    senior CDO securities, as holders of such  pari passu
     securities are entitled to receive payments from available
    cash flows at the same level of priority as holders of the super
    senior securities. Thus, a  pari passu  tranche of
    securities does not affect the amount of losses that have to be
    absorbed by classes of CDO securities other than the super
    senior CDO

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    141 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

securities before the super senior securities incur a loss,
    although the  pari passu  tranche will absorb losses on a
    pro rata basis after subordinate classes of securities are
    exhausted.

The CDS buyer must deliver the reference obligation within a
    specified period, generally within 30 days. There is no
    payment obligation if delivery is not made within this period.

Upon completion of the physical delivery and payment by AIGFP,
    AIGFP would be the holder of the relevant reference obligation
    and have all rights associated with a holder of such securities.

2a-7 
    Puts : Included in the multi-sector CDO portfolio are
    maturity-shortening puts that allow the holders of the
    securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as
    short-term eligible
     2a-7 
    investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940
     (2a-7  Puts).
    Holders of securities are required, in certain circumstances, to
    tender their securities to the issuer at par. If an
    issuer s remarketing agent is unable to resell the
    securities so tendered, AIGFP must purchase the securities at
    par as long as the security has not experienced a payment
    default or certain bankruptcy events with respect to the issuer
    of such security have not occurred.

At December 31, 2007,
     2a-7  Puts
    with a net notional amount of $6.5 billion were outstanding
    and included as part of the multi-sector CDO portfolio. During
    2008, AIGFP issued new
     2a-7  Puts
    with a net notional amount of $5.4 billion on the super
    senior security issued by a CDO of AAA-rated CMBS pursuant to a
    facility that was entered into in 2005. AIGFP is not a party to
    any commitments to issue any additional
     2a-7  Puts.
    During 2008, AIGFP repurchased multi-sector CDO securities with
    a principal amount of $9.4 billion in connection with these
    obligations, of which $8.0 billion was funded using
    existing liquidity arrangements. In connection with the ML III
    transaction, ML III purchased $8.5 billion of multi-sector
    CDOs underlying
     2a-7  Puts
    written by AIGFP. A portion of the net payment made by ML III to
    the counterparties for the purchase of the multi-sector CDOs
    facilitated the resolution of liquidity arrangements, which had
    funded certain of the multi-sector CDOs in connection with the
     2a-7  Puts.
    Among the multi-sector CDOs purchased by ML III are certain CDO
    securities with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion for
    which the related
     2a-7  Puts to
    AIGFP remained outstanding as of December 31, 2008. For the
    $252 million net notional amount of multi-sector CDOs held
    by ML III with
     2a-7  Puts
    that may be exercised in 2009, ML III has agreed to not sell the
    multi-sector CDOs in 2009 and to either not exercise its put
    option on such multi-sector CDOs or to simultaneously exercise
    their par put option with a par purchase of the multi-sector CDO
    securities. In exchange, AIG Financial Products Corp. has agreed
    to pay to ML III the consideration that it received for
    providing the put protection. AIG Financial Products Corp. and
    ML III are currently negotiating an agreement that will outline
    procedures to be taken by ML III and AIG Financial Products
    Corp. for multi-sector CDOs with put options that may be
    exercised after December 31, 2009, with the objective of
    mitigating or eliminating the impact on AIG Financial Products
    Corp. of such
     2a-7  Puts
    and capturing the associated economics for ML III. At
    December 31, 2008,
     2a-7  Puts
    with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion were outstanding.

Termination Events.   Certain of the super
    senior credit default swaps provide the counterparties with an
    additional termination right if AIG s rating level falls to
    BBB or Baa2. At that level, counterparties to the CDS
    transactions with the following net notional amounts at
    December 31, 2008, by portfolio, have the right to
    terminate the transactions early:

If counterparties exercise this right, the contracts provide for
    the counterparties to be compensated for the cost to replace the
    transactions, or an amount reasonably determined in good faith
    to estimate the losses the counterparties would incur as a
    result of the termination of the transactions.

Given the level of uncertainty in estimating both the number of
    counterparties who may elect to exercise their right to
    terminate and the payment that may be triggered in connection
    with any such exercise, AIG is unable to

142    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

reasonably estimate the aggregate amount that it would be
    required to pay under the super senior credit default swaps in
    the event of any further downgrade.

Certain super senior credit default swaps written for regulatory
    capital relief, with a net notional amount of
    $161.5 billion at December 31, 2008, include triggers
    that require certain actions to be taken by AIG once AIG s
    rating level falls to certain levels, which, if not taken, give
    rise to a right of the counterparties to terminate the CDS. Such
    actions include posting collateral, transferring the swap or
    providing a guarantee from a more highly rated entity. In light
    of the rating actions taken in respect of AIG on
    September 15, 2008, AIGFP has implemented collateral
    arrangements in a large majority of these transactions. In the
    event of a termination of the contract that is caused by
    AIG s rating downgrade, AIGFP is obligated to compensate
    the counterparty based on its  loss.  As a result of
    AIGFP posting collateral, AIG eliminated the
    counterparties  right to terminate under this downgrade
    provision, thereby avoiding the uncertainty of determining the
     loss  from an early termination of a regulatory
    capital CDS.

Collateral   

Most of AIGFP s credit default swaps are subject to
    collateral posting provisions. These provisions differ among
    counterparties and asset classes. Although AIGFP has collateral
    posting obligations associated with both regulatory capital
    relief transactions and arbitrage transactions, the large
    majority of these obligations to date have been associated with
    arbitrage transactions in respect of multi-sector CDOs.

The collateral arrangements in respect of the multi-sector CDO,
    regulatory capital and corporate arbitrage transactions are
    nearly all documented under a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to an
    ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement). The Master Agreement
    and CSA forms are standardized form agreements published by the
    ISDA, which market participants have adopted as the primary
    contractual framework for various kinds of derivatives
    transactions, including CDS. The Master Agreement and CSA forms
    are designed to be customized by counterparties to accommodate
    their particular requirements for the anticipated types of swap
    transactions to be entered into. Elective provisions and
    modifications of the standard terms are negotiated in connection
    with the execution of these documents. The Master Agreement and
    CSA permit any provision contained in these documents to be
    further varied or overridden by the individual transaction
    confirmations, providing flexibility to tailor provisions to
    accommodate the requirements of any particular transaction. A
    CSA, if agreed by the parties to a Master Agreement, supplements
    and forms part of the Master Agreement and contains provisions
    (among others) for the valuation of the covered transactions,
    the delivery and release of collateral, the types of acceptable
    collateral, the grant of a security interest (in the case of a
    CSA governed by New York law) or the outright transfer of title
    (in the case of a CSA governed by English law) in the collateral
    that is posted, the calculation of the amount of collateral
    required, the valuation of the collateral provided, the timing
    of any collateral demand or return, dispute mechanisms, and
    various other rights, remedies and duties of the parties with
    respect to the collateral provided.

In general, each party has the right under a CSA to act as the
     Valuation Agent  and initiate the calculation of the
    exposure of one party to the other (Exposure) in respect of
    transactions covered by the CSA. The valuation calculation may
    be performed daily, weekly or at some other interval, and the
    frequency is one of the terms negotiated at the time the CSA is
    signed. The definition of Exposure under a standard CSA is the
    amount that would be payable to one party by the other party
    upon a hypothetical termination of that transaction. This amount
    is determined, in most cases, by the Valuation Agent using its
    estimate of mid-market quotations (i.e., the average of
    hypothetical bid and ask quotations) of the amounts that would
    be paid for a replacement transaction. AIGFP determines Exposure
    typically by reference to the mark-to-market valuation of the
    relevant transaction produced by its systems and specialized
    models. Exposure amounts are typically determined for all
    transactions under a Master Agreement (unless the parties have
    specifically agreed to exclude certain transactions, not to
    apply the CSA or to set a specific transaction Exposure to
    zero). The aggregate Exposure less the value of collateral
    already held by the relevant party (and following application of
    certain thresholds) results in a net exposure amount (Delivery
    Amount). If this amount is a positive number, then the other
    party must deliver collateral with a value equal to the Delivery
    Amount. Under the standard CSA, the party not acting as
    Valuation Agent for any particular Exposure calculation may
    dispute the Valuation Agent s calculation of the Delivery
    Amount. If the parties are unable to resolve this dispute, the
    terms of the standard CSA provide that the Valuation Agent is
    required to recalculate Exposure using, in substitution for the
    disputed Exposure amounts, the average of actual quotations at
    mid-market from four leading dealers in the relevant market.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    143 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

After an Exposure amount is determined for a transaction subject
    to a CSA, it is combined with the Exposure amounts for all other
    transactions under the relevant Master Agreement, which may be
    netted against one another where the counterparties to a Master
    Agreement are each exposed to one another in respect of
    different transactions. Actual collateral postings with respect
    to a Master Agreement may be affected by other agreed CSA terms,
    including threshold and independent amounts, that may increase
    or decrease the amount of collateral posted.

Regulatory
    Capital Relief Transactions  

As of December 31, 2008, 68.0 percent of AIGFP s
    regulatory capital relief transactions (measured by net notional
    amount) were subject to a CSA. In other transactions, which
    represent 1.0 percent of the total net notional amount of
    the outstanding regulatory capital relief transactions, AIGFP is
    obligated to put a CSA or alternative collateral arrangement in
    place if AIG s ratings fall below certain levels
    (typically, A-/A3). At December 31, 2008, 31.0 percent
    of the regulatory capital relief portfolio is not subject to
    collateral posting provisions. In general, each regulatory
    capital relief transaction is subject to a stand-alone Master
    Agreement or similar agreement, under which the aggregate
    Exposure is calculated with reference to only a single
    transaction.

The underlying mechanism that determines the amount of
    collateral to be posted varies from one counterparty to another,
    and there is no standard formula. The varied mechanisms resulted
    from varied negotiations with different counterparties. The
    following is a brief description of the primary mechanisms that
    are currently being employed to determine the amount of
    collateral posting for this portfolio.

Reference to Market Indices    Under this
    mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined
    based on a formula that references certain tranches of a market
    index, such as either Itraxx or CDX. This mechanism is used for
    CDS transactions that reference either corporate loans, or
    residential mortgages. While the market index is not a direct
    proxy, it has the advantage of being readily obtainable.

Market Value of Reference Obligation    Under
    this mechanism the amount of collateral to be posted is
    determined based on the difference between the net notional
    amount of a referenced RMBS security and the security s
    market value.

Expected Loss Models    Under this mechanism,
    the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on the
    amount of expected credit losses, generally determined using a
    rating-agency model.

Negotiated Amount    Under this mechanism, the
    amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on bespoke
    terms negotiated between AIGFP and the counterparty, which could
    be a fixed percentage of the notional amount or present value of
    premiums to be earned by AIGFP.

The amount of collateral postings by underlying mechanism as
    described above with respect to the regulatory capital relief
    portfolio (prior to consideration of transactions other than
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio subject
    to the same Master Agreements) were as follows (there were no
    collateral postings on this portfolio prior to March 31,
    2008): 

Arbitrage
    Portfolio   Multi-Sector CDOs  

In the large majority of the CDS transactions in respect of
    multi-sector CDOs, the standard CSA provisions for the
    calculation of Exposure have been modified, with the Exposure
    amount determined pursuant to an agreed

144    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

formula that is based on the difference between the net notional
    amount of such transaction and the market value of the relevant
    underlying CDO security, rather than the replacement value of
    the transaction. As of any date, the  market value  of
    the relevant CDO security is the price at which a marketplace
    participant would be willing to purchase such CDO security in a
    market transaction on such date, while the  replacement
    value of the transaction  is the cost on such date of
    entering into a credit default swap transaction with
    substantially the same terms on the same referenced obligation
    (e.g., the CDO security). In cases where a formula is utilized,
    a transaction-specific threshold is generally factored into the
    calculation of Exposure, which reduces the amount of collateral
    required to be posted. These thresholds typically vary based on
    the credit ratings of AIG
     and/or  the
    reference obligations, with greater posting obligations arising
    in the context of lower ratings. For the large majority of
    counterparties to these transactions, the Master Agreement and
    CSA cover non-CDS transactions (e.g., interest rate and cross
    currency swap transactions) as well as CDS transactions. As a
    result, the amount of collateral to be posted by AIGFP in
    relation to the CDS transactions will be added to or offset by
    the amount, if any, of the Exposure AIG has to the counterparty
    on the non-CDS transactions.

Arbitrage
    Portfolio   Corporate Debt/CLOs  

Almost all of AIGFP s corporate arbitrage transactions are
    subject to CSAs. 97.6 percent (measured by net notional
    amount) of these transactions contain no special collateral
    posting provisions, but are subject to a Master Agreement that
    includes a CSA. These transactions are treated the same as other
    transactions subject to the same Master Agreement and CSA, with
    the calculation of collateral in accordance with the standard
    CSA procedures outlined above. 17.5 percent (measured by
    net notional amount) of these transactions, although subject to
    a Master Agreement and CSA, have specific valuation and
    threshold provisions. These thresholds are typically based on a
    combination of the credit rating of AIG and a ratings model of
    the transaction developed by Moody s model rating of the
    transaction (and not based on the value of any underlying
    reference obligations). Thus, as long as AIG maintains a rating
    above a specified threshold and the Moody s model of the
    underlying transaction exceeds a specified rating, the
    collateral provisions do not apply.

Collateral
    Calls  

AIGFP has received collateral calls from counterparties in
    respect of certain super senior credit default swaps, of which a
    large majority relate to multi-sector CDOs. To a lesser extent,
    AIGFP has also received collateral calls in respect of certain
    super senior credit default swaps entered into by counterparties
    for regulatory capital relief purposes and in respect of
    corporate arbitrage.

Frequently, valuation estimates made by counterparties with
    respect to certain super senior credit default swaps or the
    underlying reference CDO securities, for purposes of determining
    the amount of collateral required to be posted by AIGFP in
    connection with such instruments, have differed, at times
    significantly, from AIGFP s estimates. In almost all cases,
    AIGFP has been able to successfully resolve the differences or
    otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral
    posting levels, including in certain cases by entering into
    compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of
    these collateral calls, AIGFP may engage in discussions with one
    or more counterparties in respect of these differences at any
    time. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral
    purposes are, like any other third-party valuation, considered
    in the determination of the fair value estimates of AIGFP s
    super senior credit default swap portfolio.

Through June 30, 2007, AIGFP had not received any
    collateral calls related to this super senior credit default
    swap portfolio. Since that date and through February 18,
    2009, counterparties have made large collateral calls against
    AIGFP, in particular related to the multi-sector CDO portfolio.
    This was largely driven by deterioration in the market value of
    the reference obligations and the effects of the downgrade of
    AIG s ratings.

The amount of collateral postings with respect to
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio (prior
    to offsets for other transactions) were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    145 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The amount of future collateral posting requirements is a
    function of AIG s credit ratings, the rating of the
    reference obligations and any further decline in the market
    value of the relevant reference obligations, with the latter
    being the most significant factor. While a high level of
    correlation exists between the amount of collateral posted and
    the valuation of these contracts in respect of the arbitrage
    portfolio, a similar relationship does not exist with respect to
    the regulatory capital portfolio given the nature of how the
    amount of collateral for these transactions is determined. Given
    the severe market disruption, lack of observable data and the
    uncertainty regarding the potential effects on market prices of
    measures recently undertaken by the federal government to
    address the credit market disruption, AIGFP is unable to
    reasonably estimate the amounts of collateral that it would be
    required to post.

Models
    and Modeling   

AIGFP values its credit default swaps written on the super
    senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or
    loans using internal valuation models, third-party price
    estimates and market indices. The principal market was
    determined to be the market in which super senior credit default
    swaps of this type and size would be transacted, or have been
    transacted, with the greatest volume or level of activity. AIG
    has determined that the principal market participants,
    therefore, would consist of other large financial institutions
    who participate in sophisticated over-the-counter derivatives
    markets. The specific valuation methodologies vary based on the
    nature of the referenced obligations and availability of market
    prices.

The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives continues
    to be challenging given the limitation on the availability of
    market observable information due to the lack of trading and
    price transparency in the structured finance market,
    particularly during and since the second half of 2007. These
    market conditions have increased the reliance on management
    estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value
    for financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the
    valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the
    varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing
    volatile markets have increased the likelihood that the various
    parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly
    different estimates as to their fair values.

AIGFP s valuation methodologies for the super senior credit
    default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the
    deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient
    market observable information. AIG has sought to calibrate the
    model to available market information and to review the
    assumptions of the model on a regular basis.

Arbitrage
    Portfolio   Multi-Sector CDOs  

The underlying assumption of the valuation methodology for
    AIGFP s credit default swap portfolio wrapping multi-sector
    CDOs is that, to be willing to assume the obligations under a
    credit default swap, a market participant would require payment
    of the full difference between the cash price of the underlying
    tranches of the referenced securities portfolio and the net
    notional amount specified in the credit default swap.

AIGFP uses a modified version of the Binomial Expansion
    Technique (BET) model to value its credit default swap portfolio
    written on super senior tranches of CDOs of ABS, including the
     2a-7  Puts.
    The BET model was developed in 1996 by a major rating agency to
    generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a
    credit rating for those tranches, and has been widely used ever
    since.

AIG selected the BET model for the following reasons:

it is known and utilized by other institutions;

it has been studied extensively, documented and enhanced over
    many years;

146    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

it is transparent and relatively simple to apply;

the parameters required to run the BET model are generally
    observable; and

it can easily be modified to use probabilities of default and
    expected losses derived from the underlying collateral
    securities market prices instead of using rating-based
    historical probabilities of default.

The BET model has certain limitations. A well known limitation
    of the BET model is that it can understate the expected losses
    for super senior tranches when default correlations are high.
    The model uses correlations implied from diversity scores which
    do not capture the tendency for correlations to increase as
    defaults increase. Recognizing this concern, AIG tested the
    sensitivity of the valuations to the diversity scores. The
    results of the testing demonstrated that the valuations are not
    very sensitive to the diversity scores because the expected
    losses generated from the prices of the collateral pool
    securities are currently high, breaching the attachment point in
    most transactions. Once the attachment point is breached by a
    sufficient amount, the diversity scores, and their implied
    correlations, are no longer a significant driver of the
    valuation of a super senior tranche.

AIGFP has adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the
    super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. AIG modified the
    BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for
    the underlying securities and not from rating agency
    assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price
    estimates for the securities comprising the portfolio of a CDO
    as an input and converts those price estimates to credit spreads
    over current LIBOR-based interest rates. These credit spreads
    are used to determine implied probabilities of default and
    expected losses on the underlying securities. These data are
    then aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of
    the super senior tranche of the CDO.

The application of the modified BET model involves the following
    steps for each individual super senior tranche of a CDO in the
    portfolio:

1) 

Calculation of the cash flow pattern that matches the weighted
    average life for each underlying security of the CDO;

2) 

Calculation of an implied credit spread for each security from
    the price and cash flow pattern determined in step 1. This is an
    arithmetic process which converts prices to yields (similar to
    the conversion of United States Department of the Treasury
    security prices to yields), and then subtracts LIBOR-based
    interest rates to determine the credit spreads;

3) 

Conversion of the credit spread into its implied probability of
    default. This also is an arithmetic process that determines the
    assumed level of default on the security that would equate the
    present value of the expected cash flows discounted at a
    risk-free rate with the present value of the contractual cash
    flows discounted using LIBOR-based interest rates plus the
    credit spreads;

4) 

Generation of expected losses for each underlying security using
    the probability of default and recovery rate;

5) 

Aggregation of the cash flows for all securities to create a
    cash flow profile of the entire collateral pool within the CDO;

6) 

Division of the collateral pool into a number of hypothetical
    independent identical securities based on the CDO s
    diversity score so that the cash flow effects of the portfolio
    can be mathematically aggregated properly. The purpose of
    dividing the collateral pool into hypothetical securities is a
    simplifying assumption used in all BET models as part of a
    statistical technique that aggregates large amounts of
    homogeneous data;

7) 

Simulation of the default behavior of the hypothetical
    securities using a Monte Carlo simulation and aggregation of the
    results to derive the effect of the expected losses on the cash
    flow pattern of the super senior tranche taking into account the
    cash flow diversion mechanism of the CDO;

8) 

Discounting of the expected cash flows determined in step 7
    using LIBOR-based interest rates to estimate the value of the
    super senior tranche of the CDO; and

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    147 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

9) 

Adjustment of the model value for the super senior multi-sector
    CDO credit default swap for the effect of the risk of
    non-performance by AIG using the credit spreads of AIG available
    in the marketplace and considering the effects of collateral and
    master netting arrangements.

AIGFP employs a Monte Carlo simulation in step 7 above to assist
    in quantifying the effect on the valuation of the CDO of the
    unique aspects of the CDO s structure such as triggers that
    divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital
    structure. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to determine
    whether an underlying security defaults in a given simulation
    scenario and, if it does, the security s implied random
    default time and expected loss. This information is used to
    project cash flow streams and to determine the expected losses
    of the portfolio.

In addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the
    super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps
    using its internal model, AIGFP also considers the price
    estimates for the super senior CDO securities provided by third
    parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to
    validate the results of the model and to determine the best
    available estimate of fair value. In determining the fair value
    of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit
    default swaps, AIGFP uses a consistent process which considers
    all available pricing data points and eliminates the use of
    outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a
    reasonable range an averaging technique is applied.

The following table presents the net notional amount and fair
    value of derivative liability of the multi-sector super senior
    credit default swap portfolio using AIGFP s fair value
    methodology: 

The fair value of derivative liability of $5.9 billion
    recorded on AIGFP s super senior multi-sector CDO credit
    default swap portfolio represents the cumulative change in fair
    value of the remaining derivatives, which represents AIG s
    best estimate of the amount it would need to pay to a willing,
    able and knowledgeable third-party to assume the obligations
    under AIGFP s super senior multi-sector credit default swap
    portfolio at December 31, 2008.

Arbitrage
    Portfolio   Corporate Debt/CLOs  

The valuation of credit default swaps written on portfolios of
    investment-grade corporate debt and CLOs is less complex than
    the valuation of super senior multi-sector CDO credit default
    swaps and the valuation inputs are more transparent and readily
    available.

In the case of credit default swaps written on portfolios of
    investment-grade corporate debt, AIGFP estimates the fair value
    of its obligations by comparing the contractual premium of each
    contract to the current market levels of the senior tranches of
    comparable credit indices, the iTraxx index for European
    corporate issuances and the CDX index for U.S. corporate
    issuances. These indices are considered reasonable proxies for
    the referenced portfolios. In addition, AIGFP compares these
    valuations to third-party prices and makes adjustments as
    necessary to determine the best available estimate of fair value.

AIGFP estimates the fair value of its obligations resulting from
    credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par
    value less the current market value of the referenced
    obligation. Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining
    third-party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches
    referenced under the credit default swap contract.

No assurance can be given that the fair value of AIGFP s
    arbitrage credit default swap portfolio would not change
    materially if other market indices or pricing sources were used
    to estimate the fair value of the portfolio.

148    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Regulatory
    Capital Portfolio  

In the case of credit default swaps written to facilitate
    regulatory capital relief, AIGFP estimates the fair value of
    these derivatives by considering observable market transactions.
    The transactions with the most observability are the early
    terminations of these transactions by counterparties. AIG
    expects that the majority of these transactions will be
    terminated within the next 15 months by AIGFP s
    counterparties. During 2008, $99.7 billion in net notional
    amount of regulatory capital super senior transactions was
    terminated or matured. AIGFP has also received formal
    termination notices for an additional $26.5 billion in net
    notional amount of regulatory capital super senior CDS
    transactions with effective termination dates in 2009. AIGFP has
    not been required to make any payments as part of these
    terminations and in certain cases was paid a fee upon
    termination. AIGFP also considers other market data, to the
    extent relevant and available.

AIGFP does not expect to make any payment under these contracts
    based on current portfolio conditions and stress analyses
    performed. Over the contractual life of the transactions, AIGFP
    is owed contractual premiums over an extended period. However,
    the expectation that the counterparties will be willing and able
    to terminate these transactions in the very near term based on
    the contract provisions and market conditions significantly
    reduces the expected future cash flows to be received.
    Consequently, the future expected cash flows validate the
    observable market transactions used to price the portfolio.

In light of early termination experience to date and after other
    analyses, AIG determined that there was no unrealized market
    valuation adjustment for this regulatory capital relief
    portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2008 other than
    for one transaction where AIGFP believes the counterparty is no
    longer using the transaction to obtain regulatory capital
    relief. During 2008, a regulatory capital relief transaction
    with a net notional amount of $1.6 billion and a fair value
    loss of $379 million at December 31, 2008 was not
    terminated as expected when it no longer provided regulatory
    capital benefit to the counterparty. This transaction provides
    protection on European RMBS, unlike the other regulatory
    transactions, which provide protection on loan portfolios held
    by the counterparties. The documentation for this transaction
    contains provisions not included in AIGFP s other
    regulatory capital relief transactions, which enable the
    counterparty to arbitrage a specific credit exposure.

AIG will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and
    monitor developments in the marketplace. Given the significant
    deterioration in the credit markets and the risk that
    AIGFP s expectations with respect to the termination of
    these transactions by its counterparties may not materialize,
    there can be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized
    market valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods,
    and given its size, recognition of even a small percentage
    decline in the fair value of this portfolio could be material to
    AIG s consolidated results of operations for an individual
    reporting period or to AIG s consolidated financial
    condition.

Key
    Assumptions Used in the BET model   Multi-Sector
    CDOs   

The most significant assumption used in the BET model is the
    estimated price of the individual securities within the CDO
    collateral pools. The following table summarizes the gross
    transaction notional weighted average price by ABS category.

*  

RMBS Alt-A category was included in RMBS Prime in 2007.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    149 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The decrease in the weighted average prices reflects continued
    deterioration in the markets for RMBS and CMBS and further
    downgrades in RMBS and CMBS credit ratings.

Prices for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained
    in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent
    available. For the year ended December 31, 2008, CDO
    collateral managers provided market prices for 61.2 percent
    of the underlying securities. When a price for an individual
    security is not provided by a CDO collateral manager, AIGFP
    derives the price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO
    collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a
    mathematical technique used principally to value debt securities
    without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific
    securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the
    security to other benchmark-quoted securities. Substantially all
    of the CDO collateral managers who provided prices used dealer
    prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some
    cases supplemented by third-party pricing services.

The BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average
    lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of
    some of these inputs requires the use of judgment and estimates,
    particularly in the absence of market-observable data. Diversity
    scores (which reflect default correlations between the
    underlying securities of a CDO) are obtained from CDO trustees
    or implied from default correlations. Weighted average lives of
    the underlying securities are obtained, when available, from
    external subscription services such as Bloomberg and Intex and,
    if not available, AIGFP utilizes an estimate reflecting known
    weighted average lives.

Collateral recovery rates are obtained from the multi-sector CDO
    recovery data of a major rating agency. AIGFP utilizes a
    LIBOR-based interest rate curve to derive its discount rates.

AIGFP employs similar control processes to validate these model
    inputs as those used to value AIG s investment portfolio as
    described in Critical Accounting Estimates   Fair
    Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and
    Liabilities   Overview. The effects of the adjustments
    resulting from the validation process were de minimis for each
    period presented.

Valuation
    Sensitivity   Arbitrage Portfolio   

Multi-Sector
    CDOs  

AIG utilizes sensitivity analyses that estimate the effects of
    using alternative pricing and other key inputs on AIG s
    calculation of the unrealized market valuation loss related to
    the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio. While AIG
    believes that the ranges used in these analyses are reasonable,
    given the current difficult market conditions, AIG is unable to
    predict which of the scenarios is most likely to occur. As
    recent experience demonstrates, actual results in any period are
    likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios,
    and there can be no assurance that the unrealized market
    valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default
    swap portfolio will be consistent with any of the sensitivity
    analyses. On average for any quarterly period during the past
    year, prices for CDOs declined between 6.14 percent and
    11.93 percent of the notional amount outstanding. Further,
    it is difficult to extrapolate future experience based on
    current dislocated market conditions.

For the purposes of estimating sensitivities for the super
    senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, the
    change in valuation derived using the BET model is used to
    estimate the change in the fair value of the derivative
    liability. Out of the total $12.6 billion net notional
    amount of CDS written on multi-sector CDOs outstanding at
    December 31, 2008, a BET value is available for
    $8.8 billion net notional amount. No BET value is
    determined for $3.8 billion of CDS written on European
    multi-sector CDOs as prices on the underlying securities held by
    the CDOs are not provided by collateral managers; instead these
    CDS are valued using counterparty prices. Therefore,
    sensitivities disclosed below apply only to the net notional
    amount of $8.8 billion.

As mentioned above, the most significant assumption used in the
    BET model is the estimated price of the securities within the
    CDO collateral pools. If the actual price of the securities
    within the collateral pools differs from the price used in
    estimating the fair value of the super senior credit default
    swap portfolio, there is potential for material variation in the
    fair value estimate. Any further declines in the value of the
    underlying collateral securities held by a CDO will similarly
    affect the value of the super senior CDO securities given their
    significantly depressed valuations. Given the current difficult
    market conditions, AIG cannot predict reasonably likely changes
    in the prices of the underlying collateral securities held
    within a CDO at this time.

150    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following table presents key inputs used in the BET
    model, and the potential increase (decrease) to the fair value
    of the derivative liability by ABS category at December 31,
    2008 corresponding to changes in these key inputs: 

(a)   

The diversity score is an input at the CDO level. A
    calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is
    not possible.  

(b)   

The discount curve is an input at the CDO level. A
    calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is
    not possible. Furthermore, for this input it is not possible to
    disclose a weighted average input as a discount curve consists
    of a series of data points.  

These results are calculated by stressing a particular
    assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No
    assurance can be given that the actual levels of the key inputs
    will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by
    AIG for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be
    made that results calculated from the use of other changes in
    these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the
    results set forth above.

Corporate
    Debt  

The following table represents the relevant market credit
    indices and CDS maturity used to estimate the sensitivity for
    the credit default swap portfolio written on investment-grade
    corporate debt and the estimated increase (decrease) to fair
    value of derivative liability at December 31, 2008
    corresponding to changes in these market credit indices and
    maturity: 

These results are calculated by stressing a particular
    assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No
    assurance can be given that the actual levels of the indices and
    maturity will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges
    assumed by AIGFP for purposes of the above analysis. No
    assumption should be made that results calculated from the use
    of other changes in these indices and maturity can be
    interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    151 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Other derivatives.   Valuation models that
    incorporate unobservable inputs initially are calibrated to the
    transaction price. Subsequent valuations are based on observable
    inputs to the valuation model (e.g., interest rates, credit
    spreads, volatilities, etc.). Model inputs are changed only when
    corroborated by market data.

Transfers
    into Level 3    

During the year ended December 31, 2008, AIG transferred
    from Level 2 to Level 3 approximately
    $1.7 billion of assets, primarily representing fixed
    maturity securities for which the significant inputs used to
    measure the fair value of the securities became unobservable
    primarily as a result of the significant disruption in the
    credit markets. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional information about transfers into
    Level 3.

Capital
    Resources and Liquidity  

For a discussion of AIG s liquidity see
    Overview   Liquidity.

Shareholders 
    Equity   

The changes in AIG s consolidated shareholders 
    equity were as follows: 

(a)   

AIG expects to issue the Series C Preferred Stock in
    early March 2009.  

(b)   

Reflects the effects of employee stock transactions and the
    present value of future contract adjustment payments related to
    the issuance of Equity Units.  

Share
    Repurchases  

In February 2007, AIG s Board of Directors increased
    AIG s share repurchase program by authorizing the purchase
    of shares with an aggregate purchase price of $8 billion.
    In November 2007, AIG s Board of Directors authorized the
    purchase of an additional $8 billion in common stock. In
    2007, AIG entered into structured share repurchase arrangements
    providing for the purchase of shares over time with an aggregate
    purchase price of $7 billion.

A total of 37,926,059 shares were purchased during the
    first six months of 2008 to meet commitments that existed at
    December 31, 2007. There were no repurchases during the
    third and fourth quarters of 2008.

152    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

At February 18, 2009, $9 billion was available for
    purchases under the aggregate authorization. Pursuant to the Fed
    Credit Agreement, however, AIG is restricted from repurchasing
    shares of its common stock.

Share
    Issuance  

In May 2008, AIG sold 196,710,525 shares of its common
    stock at a price per share of $38 in a public offering.
    Concurrent with the common stock offering, AIG sold
    78.4 million Equity Units at a price per unit of $75. The
    Equity Units consist of an ownership interest in AIG junior
    subordinated debentures and a stock purchase contract obligating
    the holder of an equity unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to
    sell, on each of February 15, 2011, May 1, 2011 and
    August 1, 2011, for a price of $25, a variable number of
    shares of AIG common stock, that is not less than
    0.54823 shares and not more than 0.6579 shares,
    subject to anti-dilution adjustments. Accordingly, a maximum
    number of 154,738,080 shares and a minimum number of
    128,944,480 shares of AIG common stock will be issued in
    the year 2011 under the stock purchase contracts, subject to
    anti-dilution adjustments.

On May 7, 2008, AIG s Board of Directors declared a
    quarterly cash dividend on the common stock of $0.22 per share
    that was paid on September 19, 2008 to shareholders of
    record on September 5, 2008. Effective September 23,
    2008, AIG s Board of Directors suspended the declaration of
    dividends on AIG s common stock. Pursuant to the Fed Credit
    Agreement, AIG is restricted from paying dividends on its common
    stock.

See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Dividends
    from Insurance Subsidiaries  

Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are
    subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory
    authorities. With respect to AIG s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice
    to the insurance department in which the particular insurance
    subsidiary is domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an
    insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the
    insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below
    certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions,
    notably Bermuda, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, the U.K., Thailand
    and Singapore, may restrict the ability of AIG s foreign
    insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Largely as a result of
    these restrictions, a significant majority of the aggregate
    equity of AIG s consolidated subsidiaries was restricted
    from immediate transfer to AIG parent at December 31, 2008.
    See Regulation and Supervision herein. AIG cannot predict how
    recent regulatory investigations may affect the ability of its
    regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. To AIG s
    knowledge, no AIG company is currently on any regulatory or
    similar  watch list  with regard to solvency. See also
    Liquidity herein, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity.

Regulation
    and Supervision   

AIG s insurance subsidiaries, in common with other
    insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the
    states and jurisdictions in which they do business. In the
    United States, the NAIC has developed Risk-Based Capital (RBC)
    requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance company s
    statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its overall operations.

AIG s insurance subsidiaries file financial statements
    prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices
    prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance
    regulatory authorities. The principal differences between
    statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared
    in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are
    that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some
    bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, assets and
    liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder
    liabilities are valued using more conservative assumptions and
    certain assets are non-admitted.

In connection with the filing of the 2005 statutory financial
    statements for AIG s domestic General Insurance companies,
    AIG agreed with the relevant state insurance regulators on the
    statutory accounting treatment of various items. The regulatory
    authorities have also permitted certain of the domestic and
    foreign insurance subsidiaries to support the carrying value of
    their investments in certain non-insurance and foreign insurance
    subsidiaries by utilizing the AIG audited consolidated financial
    statements to satisfy the requirement that the
    U.S. GAAP-basis equity of such entities be audited. AIG has
    received similar permitted practice authorizations from
    insurance regulatory authorities in connection with the 2008 and
    2007 statutory financial statements. The permitted practice

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    153 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

resulted in a benefit to the surplus of the domestic and foreign
    General Insurance companies of $114 million and
    $859 million, respectively, and did not affect compliance
    with minimum regulatory capital requirements.

As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, various
    regulators have commenced investigations into certain insurance
    business practices. In addition, the OTS and other regulators
    routinely conduct examinations of AIG and its subsidiaries,
    including AIG s consumer finance operations. AIG cannot
    predict the ultimate effect that these investigations and
    examinations, or any additional regulation arising therefrom,
    might have on its business. Federal, state or local legislation
    may affect AIG s ability to operate and expand its various
    financial services businesses, and changes in the current laws,
    regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material
    adverse effect on these businesses.

AIG s U.S. operations are negatively affected under
    guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a
    result of operating in a state which has guarantee fund
    assessment laws, a solvent insurance company may be assessed for
    certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other
    insurance companies which operated in that state. AIG generally
    records these assessments upon notice. Additionally, certain
    states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be
    used as a credit against a company s future premium tax
    liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net assessment cannot
    reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of
    credits recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were
    $8 million, $87 million and $97 million.

AIG is also required to participate in various involuntary pools
    (principally workers  compensation business) which provide
    insurance coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in
    the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon
    notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated.

A substantial portion of AIG s General Insurance business
    and a majority of its Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services business are conducted in foreign countries. The degree
    of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies.
    Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating
    in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory
    requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG
    subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus,
    AIG s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
    conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where
    they currently operate. AIG s international operations
    include operations in various developing nations. Both current
    and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by
    unfavorable political developments up to and including
    nationalization of AIG s operations without compensation.
    Adverse effects resulting from any one country may affect
    AIG s results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIG s
    net financial exposure at that time in that country.

Foreign insurance operations are individually subject to local
    solvency margin requirements that require maintenance of
    adequate capitalization, which AIG complies with by country. In
    addition, certain foreign locations, notably Japan, have
    established regulations that can result in guarantee fund
    assessments. These have not had a material effect on AIG s
    financial condition or results of operations.

Investments  

Investments
    by Segment   

The following tables summarize the composition of AIG s
    investments by segment: 

154    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

*  

At December 31, 2008, approximately 54 percent and 46
    percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign
    entities, respectively. At December 31, 2007, approximately
    63 percent and 37 percent of investments were held by domestic
    and foreign investments, respectively.  

Investment
    Strategy   

AIG s investment strategies are tailored to the specific
    business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives
    are driven by the business model for each of the businesses:
    General Insurance, Life Insurance, Retirement Services and Asset
    Management s Spread-Based Investment business. The primary
    objectives are liquidity, preservation of capital, growth of
    surplus and generation of investment income to support the
    insurance

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    155 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

products. Difficult market conditions in recent quarters have
    significantly hindered AIG s ability to achieve these
    objectives, and these challenges are expected to persist for the
    foreseeable future.

At the local operating unit level, investment strategies are
    based on considerations that include the local market, liability
    duration and cash flow characteristics, rating agency and
    regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations,
    tax optimization and diversification.

The majority of assets backing insurance liabilities at AIG
    consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity
    securities. In the case of Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services companies, as well as in the GIC and MIP portfolios of
    the Asset Management segment, the fundamental investment
    strategy is, as nearly as is practicable, to match the duration
    characteristics of the liabilities with comparable duration
    assets. Fixed maturity securities held by the insurance
    companies included in the AIG Property Casualty Group
    historically have consisted primarily of laddered holdings of
    tax-exempt municipal bonds, which provided attractive after-tax
    returns and limited credit risk. In light of AIG s net
    operating position, AIG changed its intent to hold to maturity
    certain tax-exempt municipal securities held by its insurance
    subsidiaries. Fixed maturity securities held by Foreign General
    Insurance companies consist primarily of intermediate duration
    high grade securities.

The market price of fixed maturity securities reflects numerous
    components, including interest rate environment, credit spread,
    embedded optionality (such as call features), liquidity,
    structural complexity, foreign exchange risk, and other credit
    and non-credit factors. However, in most circumstances, pricing
    is most sensitive to interest rates, such that the market price
    declines as interest rates rise, and increases as interest rates
    fall. This effect is more pronounced for longer duration
    securities.

AIG marks to market the vast majority of the invested assets
    held by its insurance companies pursuant to FAS 115,
     Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
    Securities,  and related accounting pronouncements.
    However, with limited exceptions (primarily with respect to
    separate account products consolidated on AIG s balance
    sheet pursuant to
     SOP 03-01), 
    AIG does not mark-to-market its insurance liabilities for
    changes in interest rates, even though rising interest rates
    have the effect of reducing the fair value of such liabilities,
    and falling interest rates have the opposite effect. This
    results in the recording of changes in unrealized gains (losses)
    on securities in Accumulated other comprehensive income
    resulting from changes in interest rates without any
    correlative, inverse changes in gains (losses) on AIG s
    liabilities. Because AIG s asset duration in certain
    low-yield currencies, particularly Japan and Taiwan, is shorter
    than its liability duration, AIG views increasing interest rates
    in these countries as economically advantageous, notwithstanding
    the effect that higher rates have on the market value of its
    fixed maturity portfolio.

Discussion of investments by operating segment is as
    follows: 

General
    Insurance   

In AIG s General Insurance business, the duration of
    liabilities for long-tail casualty lines is greater than other
    lines. As differentiated from the Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services companies, the focus is not on
    asset-liability matching, but on preservation of capital and
    growth of surplus.

Fixed income holdings of the AIG Property Casualty Group are
    currently comprised primarily of tax-exempt securities, which
    provide attractive risk-adjusted after-tax returns. These high
    quality municipal investments have an average rating of AA.

Fixed income assets held in Foreign General Insurance are of
    high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging 2.5
    years compared to 6.9 years for those in AIG Property Casualty
    Group.

While invested assets backing reserves are invested in
    conventional fixed income securities in AIG Property Casualty
    Group, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to large
    capitalization, high-dividend, public equity strategies and to
    alternative investments, including private equity and hedge
    funds. Notwithstanding the current environment, these
    investments have provided a combination of added diversification
    and attractive long-term returns over time.

156    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services   

With respect to Life Insurance   Retirement Services,
    AIG uses asset-liability management as a tool worldwide in the
    life insurance business to influence the composition of the
    invested assets and appropriate marketing strategies. AIG s
    objective is to maintain a matched asset-liability structure.
    However, in certain markets, the absence of long-dated fixed
    income investment instruments may preclude a matched
    asset-liability position. In addition, AIG may occasionally
    determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily
    in an unmatched position. To the extent that AIG has maintained
    a matched asset-liability structure, the economic effect of
    interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated.

AIG s investment strategy for the Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services segment is to produce
    cash flows greater than maturing insurance liabilities. AIG
    actively manages the asset-liability relationship in its foreign
    operations, even though certain territories lack qualified
    long-term investments or certain local regulatory authorities
    may impose investment restrictions. For example, in several
    Southeast Asian countries, the duration of investments is
    shorter than the effective maturity of the related policy
    liabilities. Therefore, there is risk that the reinvestment of
    the proceeds at the maturity of the initial investments may be
    at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion
    of the policy liabilities. Additionally, there exists a future
    investment risk associated with certain policies currently
    in-force which will have premium receipts in the future. That
    is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a
    yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities.

AIG actively manages the interest rate assumptions and crediting
    rates used for its new and in force business. Business
    strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the
    overall business. In some countries, new products are being
    introduced with minimal investment guarantees, resulting in a
    shift toward investment-linked savings products and away from
    traditional savings products with higher guarantees.

The investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the
    proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active
    management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory
    investment quality and liquidity.

AIG may use alternative investments, including equities, real
    estate and foreign currency denominated fixed income instruments
    in certain foreign jurisdictions where interest rates remain low
    and there are limited long-dated bond markets to extend the
    duration or increase the yield of the investment portfolio to
    more closely match the requirements of the policyholder
    liabilities and DAC recoverability. This strategy has been
    effectively used in Japan and more recently by Nan Shan in
    Taiwan. In Japan, foreign assets, excluding those matched to
    foreign liabilities, were approximately 17 percent of
    statutory assets, which is below the maximum allowable
    percentage under current local regulation. Foreign assets
    comprised approximately 27 percent of Nan Shan s
    invested assets at December 31, 2008, slightly below the
    maximum allowable percentage under current local regulation. The
    majority of Nan Shan s in-force policy portfolio is
    traditional life and endowment insurance products with implicit
    interest rate guarantees. New business with lower interest rate
    guarantees are gradually reducing the overall interest
    requirements, but asset portfolio yields have declined faster
    due to the prolonged low interest rate environment. As a result,
    although the investment margins for a large block of in-force
    policies are negative, the block remains profitable overall
    because the mortality and expense margins presently exceed the
    negative investment spread. In response to the low interest rate
    environment and the volatile exchange rate of the Taiwanese
    dollar, Nan Shan is emphasizing new products with lower implied
    guarantees, including participating endowments and
    investment-linked products.

AIG actively manages the asset-liability relationship in its
    domestic operations. This relationship is more easily managed
    through the availability of qualified long-term investments.

A number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits or
    guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain
    variable life and variable annuity products. AIG manages its
    exposure resulting from these long-term guarantees through
    reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments.

AIG invests in equities for various reasons, including
    diversifying its overall exposure to interest rate risk.
    Available for sale bonds and equity securities are subject to
    declines in fair value. Such declines in fair value are
    presented in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of
    investments, net of taxes, as a component of Accumulated other
    comprehensive income. Declines that are determined to be
    other-than-temporary are reflected in income in the period in
    which the determination is made. See Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Other-Than-Temporary Impairments herein.
    Generally, insurance regulations restrict the types of assets in
    which an insurance company may invest. When permitted by
    regulatory authorities and when deemed necessary to protect
    insurance assets, including

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    157 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

invested assets, from adverse movements in foreign currency
    exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, AIG and its
    insurance subsidiaries may enter into derivative transactions as
    end users to hedge their exposures. For a further discussion of
    AIG s use of derivatives, see Risk Management  
    Credit Risk Management   Derivatives Transactions
    herein.

In certain jurisdictions, significant regulatory
     and/or 
    foreign governmental barriers exist which may not permit the
    immediate free flow of funds between insurance subsidiaries or
    from the insurance subsidiaries to AIG parent. For a discussion
    of these restrictions, see Item 1. Business  
    Regulation.

Financial
    Services   

Capital
    Markets   

AIGFP s management objective is to minimize interest rate,
    currency, commodity and equity risks associated with its
    investment securities. AIGFP hedges the market risk associated
    with the investment securities on a portfolio basis effectively
    converting the returns. While not qualifying for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS133, this transaction achieves the
    economic result of limiting interest rate volatility arising
    from such securities. The market risk associated with such
    hedges is managed on a portfolio basis.

Securities purchased under agreements to resell are treated as
    collateralized financing transactions. AIGFP takes possession of
    or obtains a security interest in securities purchased under
    agreements to resell.

For a discussion of the unwinding of AIG s businesses and
    portfolios, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Outlook   Financial Services.

AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and
    GIAs to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities,
    including securities available for sale, and derivative
    transactions. The funds may also be invested in securities
    purchased under agreements to resell. The proceeds from the
    disposal of the aforementioned securities available for sale and
    securities purchased under agreements to resell are used to fund
    the maturing GIAs or other AIGFP financings, or to invest in new
    assets. For a further discussion of AIGFP s borrowings, see
    Capital Resources and Liquidity   Borrowings herein.

Capital Markets derivative transactions are carried at fair
    value. AIGFP reduces its market risk exposure through similarly
    valued offsetting transactions including swaps, trading
    securities, options, forwards and futures. For a further
    discussion on the use of derivatives by Capital Markets, see
    Operating Review   Financial Services
    Operations   Capital Markets and Risk
    Management   Derivatives herein and Note 10 to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIGFP owns inventories in certain commodities in which it
    trades, and may reduce the exposure to market risk through the
    use of swaps, forwards, futures, and option contracts. Physical
    commodities are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value.

Trading securities, at fair value, and securities and spot
    commodities sold but not yet purchased, at fair value, are
    marked to fair value daily with the unrealized gain or loss
    recognized in income. These trading securities are purchased and
    sold as necessary to meet the risk management and business
    objectives of Capital Markets operations.

Asset
    Management   

Asset Management invested assets include those supporting
    AIG s Spread-Based Investment Business, proprietary
    investments of AIG Global Real Estate and other proprietary
    investments including investments originally acquired for
    warehouse purposes.

The Spread-Based Investment business strategy is to generate
    spread income from investments yielding returns greater than
    AIG s cost of funds. The asset-liability relationship is
    actively managed. The goal of the business is to capture a
    spread between income earned on investments and the funding
    costs of the program while mitigating interest rate and foreign
    currency exchange rate risk. The invested assets are
    predominantly fixed maturity securities and include
    U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed
    securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities. In
    addition, the GIC program invests in various investment
    partnerships such as

158    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

hedge, private equity and affordable housing funds. The MIP sold
    credit protection by issuing predominantly single-name
    investment grade corporate credit default swaps with the intent
    to earn spread income on credit exposure in an unfunded and
    leveraged form.

AIG Global Real Estate maintains a proprietary investment
    portfolio of direct real estate investments and investments in
    real estate based joint ventures and partnerships. AIG Global
    Real Estate invests primarily in strategic and opportunistic
    development projects domiciled in the U.S., Europe and Asia. AIG
    Investments holds investments in various direct private equity
    and private equity funds that were originally acquired as
    warehouse investments targeted for future managed investment
    products but which are now considered proprietary investments.

Available
    for Sale and Held to Maturity Investments   

The amortized cost or cost and fair value of AIG s
    available for sale and held to maturity securities were as
    follows: 

(a)   

At December 31, 2007, included AIGFP available for sale
    securities with a fair value of $39.3 billion, for which
    AIGFP elected the fair value option effective January 1,
    2008, consisting primarily of corporate debt, mortgage-backed,
    asset-backed and CDO securities. At December 31, 2008, the
    fair value of these securities was $26.1 billion. At
    December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, fixed
    maturities held by AIG that were below investment grade or not
    rated totaled $19.4 billion and $27.0 billion,
    respectively. During the third quarter of 2008, AIG changed its
    intent to hold until maturity certain tax-exempt municipal
    securities held by its insurance subsidiaries. As a result, all
    securities previously classified as held to maturity are now
    classified in the available for sale category. See Note 1
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information. Fixed maturity securities reported on the balance
    sheet include $442 million of short-term investments
    included in Securities lending invested collateral.  

(b)   

Financial institutions represent approximately 57 percent of
    the total gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008.  

(c)   

Represents obligations of states, municipalities and
    political subdivisions. In 2008, AIG changed its intent to hold
    such securities to maturity.  

At December 31, 2008, approximately 54 percent of the
    fixed maturity securities were in domestic entities.
    Approximately 28 percent of such domestic securities were
    rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies.
    Approximately eight percent were below investment grade or not
    rated. AIG s investment decision process relies primarily
    on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk
    ratings. Third-party rating

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    159 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

services  ratings and opinions provide one source of
    independent perspectives for consideration in the internal
    analysis.

A significant portion of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is
    rated by Moody s, S P or similar foreign rating
    services. Rating services are not available in all overseas
    locations. AIG s Credit Risk Committee (CRC) closely
    reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio s
    non-rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2008,
    approximately 14 percent of the foreign fixed income
    investments were either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIG s
    internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to
    securities so rated. Approximately five percent were below
    investment grade or not rated at that date. Approximately one
    third of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is sovereign fixed
    maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country
    of issuance.

For additional disclosures on investments, see Note 5 to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The credit ratings of AIG s fixed maturity investments
    were as follows: 

The industry categories of AIG s available for sale
    corporate debt securities, other than those of AIGFP, were as
    follows: 

160    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Investments
    in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS  

The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair
    value of AIG s investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS were
    as follows: 

*  

The December 31, 2007 amounts represent total AIGFP
    investments in mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized
    securities for which AIGFP has elected the fair value option
    effective January 1, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the
    fair value of these securities was $12.4 billion. The
    December 31, 2008 amounts represent securities for which
    AIGFP has not elected the fair value option.  

Investments
    in RMBS  

The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and
    estimated fair value of AIG s investments in RMBS
    securities, other than those of AIGFP, were as follows: 

(a)   

Includes foreign and jumbo RMBS-related securities.  

(b)   

Primarily wrapped second-lien.  

AIG s operations, other than AIGFP, held investments in
    RMBS with an estimated fair value of $29.8 billion at
    December 31, 2008, or approximately 5 percent of
    AIG s total invested assets. On December 12, 2008,
    RMBS with an estimated fair value of $20.8 billion were
    sold to ML II in connection with AIG s termination of the
    U.S. securities lending program. In addition, AIG s
    insurance operations held investments with a fair value totaling
    $6.1 billion in CDOs/ABS, of which $14 million
    included some level of subprime exposure. AIG s RMBS
    investments are predominantly in highly-rated tranches that
    contain substantial protection features through collateral
    subordination. At December 31, 2008, approximately
    82 percent of these investments were rated AAA, and
    approximately 9 percent were rated AA by one or more of the
    principal rating agencies. AIG s investments rated BBB or
    below totaled $1.8 billion, or less than 0.28 percent
    of AIG s total invested assets at December 31, 2008.
    As of February 19, 2009, $5.3 billion of AIG s
    RMBS portfolio had been downgraded as a result of rating agency
    actions since January 1, 2007, and $130 million of
    such investments had been upgraded. Of

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    161 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

the downgrades, $4.9 billion were AAA rated securities. In
    addition to the downgrades, as of February 19, 2009, the
    rating agencies had $951 million of RMBS on watch for
    downgrade.

In 2008, AIG collected approximately $7.5 billion of
    principal payments on RMBS.

The amortized cost of AIG s RMBS investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, by year of vintage and credit rating, at
    December 31, 2008, were as follows: 

AIG s underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other
    asset-backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the
    quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security
    credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages,
    borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in
    the transaction. AIG s strategy is typically to invest in
    securities rated AA or better.

162    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Investments
    in CMBS   

The amortized cost of AIG s CMBS investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: 

The percentage of AIG s CMBS investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, by credit rating, at December 31, 2008, was
    as follows: 

The percentage of AIG s CMBS investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, by year of vintage, at December 31, 2008,
    was as follows: 

The percentage of AIG s CMBS investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, by geographic region, at December 31, 2008,
    was as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    163 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

There have been disruptions in the commercial mortgage markets
    in general, and the CMBS market in particular, with credit
    default swaps indices and quoted prices of securities at levels
    consistent with a severe correction in lease rates, occupancy
    and fair value of properties. In addition, spreads in the
    primary mortgage market have widened significantly.

Investments
    in CDOs   

The amortized cost of AIG s CDO investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, by collateral type, at December 31, 2008,
    was as follows: 

Amortized cost of the AIG s CDO investments, other than
    those of AIGFP, by credit rating, at December 31, 2008, was
    as follows: 

164    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Commercial
    Mortgage Loans   

At December 31, 2008, AIG had direct commercial mortgage loan
    exposure of $17.5 billion, with $15.9 billion
    representing U.S. loan exposure. At that date,
    substantially all of the U.S. loans were current. Foreign
    commercial mortgage loans of $1.6 billion are secured
    predominantly by properties in Japan. In addition, at
    December 31, 2008, AIG had $2.3 billion in residential
    mortgage loans in jurisdictions outside the United States,
    primarily secured by properties in Taiwan and Thailand.

The U.S. commercial loan exposure by state and type of loan,
    at December 31, 2008, were as follows: 

AIGFP
    Trading Investments   

The fair value of AIGFP s fixed maturity trading
    investments, at December 31, 2008,  were as follows: 

The credit ratings of AIGFP s fixed maturity trading
    investments, at December 31, 2008, were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    165 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The fair value of AIGFP s trading investments in RMBS,
    CDO, ABS and other collateralized securities was as follows: 

These securities are used to collateralize AIGFP s secured
    financing arrangements including the obligations of its asset
    backed commercial paper conduit.

Securities
    Lending Activities   

AIG s securities lending program historically operated as
    centrally managed by AIG Investments for the benefit of certain
    of AIG s insurance companies. Under this program,
    securities were loaned to various financial institutions,
    primarily major banks and brokerage firms. Cash collateral was
    received and was invested in fixed maturity securities to earn a
    net spread. The amount of cash advanced by borrowers declined in
    2008 due in part to the availability of alternative transactions
    requiring less collateral. During the fourth quarter of 2008, in
    connection with certain securities lending transactions, AIG met
    the requirements of sale accounting as prescribed by
    FAS 140 because collateral received was insufficient to
    fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing replacement
    assets. Accordingly, AIG recognized $2.4 billion of net
    realized capital losses on deemed sales of the securities it had
    lent. Also, net realized capital losses in 2008 included a loss
    of $2.3 billion, incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, on
    RMBS prior to their purchase by ML II. Also see Note 5 to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

A significant portion of the collateral received was invested in
    RMBS with cash flows having tenors longer than the liabilities
    to the counterparties. The value of those collateral securities
    declined during the latter part of 2007 and throughout 2008 and
    trading in such securities was extremely limited. Given these
    events, AIG began increasing liquidity in the securities lending
    pool by increasing the amount of cash and overnight investments
    that in the third quarter of 2007 comprised the securities
    lending invested collateral.

Due to AIG-specific credit concerns and systemic issues in the
    financial markets in the third quarter of 2008, counterparties
    began curtailing their participation in the program. As a
    result, liquidity in the collateral pools became constrained. At
    September 30, 2008, AIG had borrowed approximately
    $11.5 billion under the Fed Facility to provide liquidity
    to the securities lending program.

On October 8, 2008, AIG announced that certain of its
    domestic life insurance subsidiaries had entered into a
    securities lending agreement with the NY Fed pursuant to which
    the NY Fed agreed to borrow, on an overnight basis, up to
    $37.8 billion in investment grade fixed income securities
    from these AIG subsidiaries in return for cash collateral. The
    Securities Lending Agreement assisted AIG in meeting its
    obligations to borrowers requesting the return of their cash
    collateral.

On December 12, 2008, AIG, certain of AIG s wholly
    owned U.S. life insurance subsidiaries, and AIG Securities
    Lending Corp. (the AIG Agent), another AIG subsidiary, entered
    into the ML II Agreement with ML II.

Pursuant to the ML II Agreement, the life insurance subsidiaries
    sold to ML II all of their undivided interests in a pool of
    $39.3 billion face amount of RMBS held by the AIG Agent as
    agent of the life insurance subsidiaries in connection with
    AIG s U.S. securities lending program. In exchange for
    the RMBS, the life insurance subsidiaries received an initial
    purchase price of $19.8 billion plus the right to receive
    deferred contingent portions of the total purchase price of
    $1 billion plus participation in the residual, each of
    which is subordinated to the repayment of the NY Fed loan to
    ML II.  These life insurance subsidiaries applied the net
    cash proceeds of sale of the RMBS toward the amounts due by such
    life insurance subsidiaries in terminating both the
    U.S. securities lending program and the

166    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Securities Lending Agreement. See Note 5 for further
    information on the transaction with ML II. At December 31,
    2008, total securities lending collateral held by AIG of
    $3.8 billion represents the foreign securities lending
    program, which is expected to wind down in 2009. Securities
    lending payables amounted to $2.9 billion at
    December 31, 2008.

The recognition of other-than-temporary impairment charges for
    the securities lending collateral investments placed significant
    stress on the statutory surplus of the participating insurance
    companies. During 2008, AIG recognized other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $18.2 billion related to these
    investments, including $6.9 billion of charges related to
    AIG s change in intent to hold these securities to maturity
    as it winds this program down. During 2008, AIG contributed
    $21.5 billion to certain of its Domestic Life Insurance and
    Domestic Retirement Services subsidiaries, largely related to
    these charges.

Portfolio
    Review  

Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairments   

AIG assesses its ability to hold any fixed maturity security in
    an unrealized loss position to its recovery, including fixed
    maturity securities classified as available for sale, at each
    balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity
    security classified as available for sale reflects the judgment
    of AIG s management that the security sold is unlikely to
    provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in
    the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks.
    With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision
    reflects management s judgment that the risk-discounted
    anticipated ultimate recovery is less than the value achievable
    on sale.

AIG evaluates its investments for impairments in valuation as
    well as credit. The determination that a security has incurred
    an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment
    of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of
    the issuer, its near-term prospects and all the relevant facts
    and circumstances. See Critical Accounting Estimates  
    Other-Than-Temporary Impairments herein for further information.

Once a security has been identified as other-than-temporarily
    impaired, the amount of such impairment is determined by
    reference to that security s contemporaneous fair value and
    recorded as a charge to earnings.

As a result of AIG s periodic evaluation of its securities
    for other-than-temporary impairments in value, AIG recorded
    other-than-temporary impairment charges of $50.8 billion,
    $4.7 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFP
    recorded on other income) and $944 million in 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.

In light of the recent significant disruption in the
    U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, AIG has
    recognized an other-than-temporary impairment charge (severity
    loss) of $29.1 billion in 2008, primarily related to
    mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collaterized securities and
    securities of financial institutions. Notwithstanding AIG s
    intent and ability to hold such securities until they have
    recovered their cost basis, and despite structures that indicate
    that a substantial amount of the securities should continue to
    perform in accordance with original terms, AIG concluded that it
    could not reasonably assert that the impairment would be
    temporary.

Pricing of CMBS has been adversely affected by market
    perceptions that underlying mortgage defaults will increase. As
    a result, AIG recognized $6.2 billion of
    other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2008 on CMBS valued
    at a severe discount to cost, despite the absence of any
    meaningful deterioration in performance of the underlying
    credits, because AIG concluded that it could not reasonably
    assert that the impairment period was temporary. In addition,
    AIG recognized $527 million in other-than-temporary
    impairment charges due to the change in intent to hold these
    CMBS until they recover in value and $245 million due to
    issuer-specific credit events.

Certain high quality, highly rated securities in the CMBS
    portfolio experienced severe market price declines in late 2008.
    With respect to this portfolio, AIG has performed extensive
    internal fundamental credit risk analysis on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, including consideration of credit enhancements and
    expected defaults on underlying collateral. In management s
    view, this internal analysis, supplemented by relevant industry
    analyst reports and forecasts and other market available data,
    provides persuasive evidence sufficient to overcome the premise
    that such severe declines in fair value below amortized cost
    should be considered other than temporary. As a result,
    impairment charges were not taken on certain CMBS having fair
    values $1.8 billion below amortized cost.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    167 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

In addition to the above severity losses, AIG recorded
    other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2008, 2007 and 2006
    related to:

securities that AIG does not intend to hold until recovery;

declines due to foreign exchange rates;

issuer-specific credit events;

certain structured securities impaired under
     EITF 99-20 
    and related interpretative guidance; and

other impairments, including equity securities and partnership
    investments.

Other-than-temporary impairment charges by segment were as
    follows: 

168    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Other-than-temporary severity-related impairment charges by
    type of security and credit rating were as follows: 

*   

Ratings are as of the date of the impairment charge.  

Financial institutions industry other-than-temporary
    impairment charges by industry classification were, at
    December 31, 2008, as follows: 

Financial institutions other-than-temporary impairment charges
    were immaterial in 2007 and 2006.

No other-than-temporary impairment charge with respect to any
    one single credit was significant to AIG s consolidated
    financial condition or results of operations, and no individual
    other-than-temporary impairment charge exceeded
    three percent of consolidated shareholders equity in 2008.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity
    securities, that is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG
    generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the
    reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over
    the remaining life of the security. The amount of accretion
    recognized in earnings for 2008 was $634 million.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    169 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

An aging of the pre-tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity
    and equity securities, distributed as a percentage of cost
    relative to unrealized loss (the extent by which the fair value
    is less than amortized cost or cost), including the number of
    respective items was as follows: 

(a)   

Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value
    has been less than cost by any amount.  

(b)   

Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than
    cost at the balance sheet date.  

(c)   

For bonds, represents amortized cost.  

(d)   

The effect on net income of unrealized losses after taxes
    will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized
    losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts,
    or realization will result in current decreases in the
    amortization of certain DAC.  

(e)   

Includes securities lending invested collateral.  

(f)   

Of this $12.8 billion, $4.5 billion relates to
    RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS with unrealized losses greater than
    25 percent; and $791 million relates to RMBS, CMBS,
    CDOs and ABS with unrealized losses between 20 percent and
    25 percent. The balance represents all other classes of
    fixed maturity securities.  

(g)   

Total bonds unrealized loss of $1.5 billion represents
    CMBS not deemed other than temporarily impaired based on credit
    analysis.  

170    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The aging of the unrealized losses of RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and
    ABS with fair values greater than 20 percent and
    50 percent less than their cost at December 31, 2008
    (in footnote (f) to the table above) is shown in the table
    below, which provides the period in which those securities in
    unrealized loss positions would become candidates for impairment
    solely because they have been trading at a discount for nine
    consecutive months (AIG s other-than-temporary aging
    guideline) without regard to the level of discount (AIG s
    other-than-temporary trading level guideline), assuming prices
    remained unchanged. 

Given the current difficult market conditions, AIG is not able
    to predict reasonably likely changes in the prices of these
    securities. Moreover, AIG is unable to assess the effect, if
    any, that potential sales of securities pursuant to TARP will
    have on the pricing of its available for sale securities.

Unrealized
    gains and losses   

At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of AIG s
    available for sale fixed maturity and equity securities
    aggregated $375.3 billion. At December 31, 2008,
    aggregate pre-tax unrealized gains for fixed maturity and equity
    securities were $14.8 billion ($9.6 billion after tax).

At December 31, 2008, the aggregate pre-tax gross
    unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were
    $25.0 billion ($16.3 billion after tax). Additional
    information about these securities is as follows:

These securities were valued, in the aggregate, at approximately
    88 percent of their current amortized cost.

Approximately 24 percent of these securities were valued at
    less than 20 percent of their current cost, or amortized
    cost.

Approximately five percent of the fixed maturity securities had
    issuer credit ratings which were below investment grade.

AIG did not consider these securities in an unrealized loss
    position to be other-than-temporarily impaired at
    December 31, 2008, because management has the intent and
    ability to hold these investments until they recover their cost
    basis within a recovery period deemed to be temporary. In
    performing this evaluation, management considered the market
    recovery periods for securities in previous periods of broad
    market declines. In addition, for certain securities with more
    significant declines, management performed extended fundamental
    credit analysis on a
     security-by-security 
    basis including consideration of credit enhancements, expected
    defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry
    analyst reports and forecasts and other market available data.
    In management s view this analysis provides persuasive
    evidence sufficient to conclude that such severe declines in
    fair value below amortized cost should not be considered other
    than temporary.

In 2008, unrealized losses related to investment grade bonds
    increased $10.6 billion ($6.9 billion after tax),
    reflecting the widening of credit spreads, partially offset by
    the effects of a decline in risk-free interest rates.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    171 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity
    securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position by
    contractual maturity were as follows: 

For the year ended December 31, 2008, the pre-tax gross
    realized losses incurred with respect to the sale of fixed
    maturities and equity securities were $13.4 billion. The
    aggregate fair value of securities sold was $97 billion,
    which was approximately 88 percent of amortized cost. The
    average period of time that securities sold at a loss during
    2008 were trading continuously at a price below book value was
    approximately eight months. See Risk Management  
    Credit Risk Management herein for an additional discussion of
    investment risks associated with AIG s investment portfolio.

Certain of AIG s foreign subsidiaries included in the
    consolidated financial statements report on a fiscal year ended
    November 30. The effect on AIG s consolidated
    financial condition and results of operations of all material
    events occurring between November 30 and December 31 for all
    periods presented has been recorded. AIG determined the
    significant appreciation in world-wide fixed income and equity
    markets in December 2008 to be an intervening event that had a
    material effect on its consolidated financial condition and
    results of operations. AIG reflected the December 2008 market
    appreciation throughout its investment portfolio. Accordingly,
    AIG recorded $5.6 billion ($3.6 billion after tax) of
    unrealized appreciation on investments.

Risk
    Management  

Overview   

The continued unprecedented market turmoil, which began in the
    U.S. housing sector but which has expanded to other sectors
    of the economy, led to severe price declines and reduced
    liquidity of highly-rated asset-backed securities, including
    residential mortgage-backed securities and related
    collateralized debt obligations. Structured finance securities
    suffered the greatest valuation losses among fixed income asset
    classes, starting with residential mortgage-backed securities
    with sub-prime collateral in late 2007, followed by commercial
    mortgage-backed securities in late 2008. The current environment
    is such that liquidity is very limited in all fixed income and
    alternative asset classes.

AIG s investment goal in its insurance investment
    portfolios is to purchase assets with acceptable credit quality
    that will generate over time an acceptable spread over
    AIG s insurance related liabilities. The process by which
    AIG assesses acceptable credit quality is further described
    below under Credit Risk Management. Because accounting
    implications have not been a factor in determining AIG s
    investment decisions, AIG has historically not set limits on its
    exposure to volatility of reported financial results from
    fluctuations in market credit spreads. The environment for
    securities pricing in 2008, resulting from widening of credit
    spreads of unprecedented proportions in many asset classes, has
    caused material and adverse effects on AIG s results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flow.

The unanticipated price declines and associated reduction of
    liquidity exceeded the parameters historically used by AIG for
    purposes of its asset-liability and liquidity management
    processes. AIG is responding to these developments by enhancing
    its risk management processes and de-risking certain exposures,
    based upon enhanced scenario-related stress testing. AIG s
    de-risking strategies have resulted in the following:

reduction of certain foreign exchange exposures at the local
    entity level by selling or hedging investments denominated in
    non-local currencies;

reduction of certain foreign exchange exposures at the AIG level
    by hedging
     non-U.S. dollar 
    exposures; and

172    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

reduction of regulatory capital charges and volatility of
    earnings by selling certain equity and alternative investments,
    including common stock, mutual funds and real estate investments.

However, the continuation of such market turmoil and associated
    price declines and limited liquidity have severely constrained
    AIG s ability to utilize techniques for mitigating its
    exposure to credit, market and liquidity risks.

AIG has been reassessing its risk management control environment
    and its enterprise risk management functions, both in its
    individual businesses as well as at the corporate level, in
    light of AIG s current situation. AIG continues to invest
    in risk management systems and processes where those investments
    are consistent with AIG s current liquidity, capital and
    disposition plans.

The major risks to which AIG is exposed include the following:

Credit risk    the potential loss arising from
    an obligor s inability or unwillingness to meet its
    obligations to AIG.

Market risk    the potential loss arising from
    adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies,
    equity and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility.
    Market risk includes credit spread risk, the potential loss
    arising from adverse fluctuations in credit spreads of
    securities or counterparties.

Operational risk    the potential loss resulting
    from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and
    systems, or from external events.

Liquidity risk    the potential inability to
    meet all payment obligations when they become due.

General insurance risk    the potential loss
    resulting from inadequate premiums, insufficient reserves and
    catastrophic exposures.

Life insurance risk    the potential loss
    resulting from experience deviating from expectations for
    mortality, morbidity and termination rates in the
    insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover
    contract liabilities in the retirement savings products.

AIG is also exposed to reputational risk, which is defined as
    the risk of direct loss or loss in future business because of
    damage to AIG s reputation. Damage to the company s
    reputation can arise from a large number of issues, including
    potential conflicts of interest; legal and regulatory
    requirements; ethical issues; and sales and trading practices.
    In addition, reputational risk can be both the cause of or
    result from the major risks outlined above.

The primary responsibility for risk management lies with the
    business executives within AIG s segments. The business
    executives are responsible for establishing and maintaining risk
    management processes in their areas of activity under the risk
    management framework established by AIG senior management, and
    responding to their specific business needs and issues,
    including risk concentrations within their respective
    businesses. The primary focus of corporate risk management is to
    provide oversight of these processes in the businesses and to
    assess the risk of AIG incurring economic losses from
    concentrations of risk in the risk categories outlined above.

Corporate
    Risk Governance   

AIG s major risks are addressed at the corporate level
    through Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which is headed by
    AIG s Chief Risk Officer (CRO). ERM reports to the Chief
    Executive Officer and is responsible for assisting AIG s
    business leaders, executive management and Board of Directors to
    identify, assess, quantify, manage and mitigate the risks
    incurred by AIG.

An important goal of ERM is to ensure that, after appropriate
    governance, authorities, procedures and policies have been
    established, aggregated risks do not result in inappropriate
    concentrations. Senior management defines the policies and has
    established general operating parameters for its global
    businesses and various oversight committees to monitor the risks
    attendant to its businesses. These committees include the Credit
    Risk Committee (CRC), Liquidity Risk Committee (LRC),
    Catastrophic   Emerging Risks Committee (CERC),
    Complex Structured Finance Transaction Committee (CSFTC) and
    Global and Regional Pricing Committees.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    173 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The CRC is responsible for the following:

approving credit risk policies and procedures for use throughout
    AIG;

delegating credit authority to business unit credit officers and
    select business unit managers;

approving transaction requests and limits for corporate,
    sovereign, structured finance and cross-border credit exposures
    that exceed delegated authorities;

establishing and maintaining AIG s risk rating process for
    corporate, financial and sovereign obligors;

conducting regular reviews of credit risk exposures in the
    portfolios of all credit-incurring business units; and

reviewing all credit concentration risks.

The LRC is responsible for liquidity policy and implementation
    at AIG Parent and exercises oversight and control of liquidity
    policies at each AIG entity. See Capital Resources and Liquidity
    herein.

The CERC was formed in June 2008 to enhance and consolidate
    AIG s existing processes to analyze, discuss, quantify and
    report to senior management the risks to AIG of potential
    catastrophic events that have been insured by AIG s various
    divisions. The committee meets regularly and discusses potential
    events and emerging risks that may materialize in the future.
    The committee s membership includes senior underwriting,
    actuarial, and risk management professionals.

A CSFT is any AIG transaction or product that may involve a
    heightened legal, regulatory, accounting or reputational risk
    that is developed, marketed or proposed by AIG or a third-party
    The CSFTC has the authority and responsibility to review and
    approve any proposed CSFT. The CSFTC provides guidance to and
    monitors the activities of transaction review committees (TRCs)
    which have been established in all major business units. TRCs
    have the responsibility to identify, review and refer CSFTs to
    the CSFTC.

AIG developed and implemented a Global Pricing Committee in the
    first quarter of 2008 to address the requirements of
    FAS 157. The Global Pricing Committee provides oversight of
    AIG s pricing valuation practices and processes and has
    delegated operational responsibility to five Regional Pricing
    Committees to implement and monitor these practices within the
    underlying businesses of each respective region.

Credit
    Risk Management   

AIG devotes considerable resources to managing its direct and
    indirect credit exposures, such as those arising from fixed
    income investments, deposits, corporate and consumer loans,
    leases, reinsurance recoverables, counterparty risk in
    derivatives activities, cessions of insurance risk to reinsurers
    and customers, credit risk assumed through credit derivatives
    written, financial guarantees and letters of credit. Credit risk
    is defined as the risk that AIG s customers or
    counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their
    contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may
    also be manifested: (i) through the downgrading of credit
    ratings of counterparties whose credit instruments AIG may be
    holding, or, in some cases, insuring, causing the value of the
    assets to decline or insured risks to rise; and (ii) as
    cross-border risk where a country (sovereign government risk) or
    one or more non-sovereign obligors within a country are unable
    to repay an obligation or are unable to provide foreign exchange
    to service a credit or equity exposure incurred by another AIG
    business unit located outside that country.

AIG s credit risks are managed at the corporate level by
    the Credit Risk Management department (CRM) whose primary role
    is to support and supplement the work of the businesses and the
    CRC. CRM is headed by AIG s Chief Credit Officer (CCO), who
    reports to AIG s CRO. AIG s CCO is primarily
    responsible for the development and maintenance of credit risk
    policies and procedures approved by the CRC. In discharging this
    function CRM has the following responsibilities:

approve delegated credit authorities to CRM credit executives
    and business unit credit officers;

manage the approval process for all requests for credit limits,
    program limits and transactions above delegated authorities;

174    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

aggregate globally all credit exposure data by counterparty,
    country and industry and report risk concentrations regularly to
    and review with the CRC and the Finance Committee of the Board
    of Directors;

administer regular portfolio credit reviews of all investment,
    derivative and credit-incurring business units and recommend any
    corrective actions where required;

develop methodologies for quantification and assessment of
    credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of
    AIG s internal risk rating process; and

approve appropriate credit reserves and methodologies at the
    business unit and enterprise levels.

The CRC also approves concentration limits on U.S. and
    international business unit consumer loan portfolios, including
    the mortgage insurance activities of UGC. In addition, the CRC
    is also responsible for establishing concentration limits on AIG
    Investments  exposures in U.S. and international
    residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities and
    collateralized debt obligations.

AIG monitors and controls its company-wide credit risk
    concentrations and attempts to avoid unwanted or excessive risk
    accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level
    of credit risk in certain circumstances, AIG may require
    third-party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, such as
    letters of credit and trust account deposits. These guarantees,
    letters of credit and reinsurance recoverables are also treated
    as credit exposure and are added to AIG s risk
    concentration exposure data.

AIG defines its aggregate credit exposures to a counterparty as
    the sum of its fixed maturities, loans, finance leases,
    reinsurance recoverables, derivatives (mark-to-market), deposits
    and letters of credit (both in the case of financial
    institutions) and the specified credit equivalent exposure to
    certain insurance products which embody credit risk.

The following table presents AIG s largest credit
    exposures as a percentage of total shareholders  equity: 

At December 31, 2008 

Credit Exposure 

as a Percentage of Total 

Category 

Risk Rating (a)  

Shareholders  Equity 

Investment Grade: 

10 largest combined

A+ (weighted average

) (b) 

173.8

%

Single largest non-sovereign (financial institution)

A-

19.2

Single largest corporate

AA

9.4

Single largest sovereign

AAA

35.6

Non-Investment Grade: 

Single largest sovereign

BB-

3.3

Single largest non-sovereign

BB

1.4

(a)   

Risk rating is based on the lower of AIG s internal risk
    ratings or the external ratings of the major rating agencies.  

(b)   

Five of the ten largest credit exposures are to financial
    institutions and four are to investment-grade rated sovereigns;
    none is rated lower than BBB or its equivalent.  

AIG monitors its aggregate cross-border exposures by country and
    regional group of countries. AIG defines its cross-border
    exposure to include both cross-border credit exposures and its
    cross-border investments in its own international subsidiaries.
    Ten countries had cross-border exposures in excess of
    20 percent of total shareholders  equity at
    December 31, 2008. At that date, seven were AAA-rated two
    were AA-rated and one was A-rated.

In addition, AIG reviews and manages its industry
    concentrations. AIG s single largest industry credit
    exposure is to the global financial institutions sector,
    comprised of banks, securities firms, life and non-life
    insurance companies, reinsurance companies, finance companies
    and government-sponsored entities.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    175 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following table presents AIG s largest credit
    exposures to the global financial institution sector as a
    percentage of total consolidated shareholders  equity: 

Credit Exposure 

as a Percentage of 

Consolidated 

At December 31, 2008 

Shareholders  Equity 

Industry Category:

Money Center / Global Bank Groups

160.0

%

Global Life Insurance Companies

30.8

European Regional Financial Institutions

28.2

Global Reinsurance Companies

21.2

Global Securities Companies

18.8

Asian Regional Financial Institutions

15.8

North American-Based Regional Financial Institutions

15.7

Government-Sponsored Entities

12.8

Non-Life Insurance Companies

12.5

AIG s exposure to its five largest money center/global bank
    group institutions was 65.6 percent of shareholders 
    equity at December 31, 2008.

AIG s exposure to global financial institutions includes
    $6.6 billion of preferred stock and Tier 1 securities,
    $1.4 billion of upper Tier 2 securities and
    $7.5 billion of lower Tier 2 securities. These
    securities can be subject to a higher risk of dividend or
    interest deferral and principal non-payment or non-redemption
    because they provide various levels of capital support to these
    institutions, and may be subject to regulatory and contractual
    restrictions. These securities are held by various AIG
    subsidiaries and are diversified by obligor and country. In
    addition, AIG s financial institution exposures include
    other subordinated securities totaling $20.0 billion.

AIG s other industry credit concentrations in excess of
    20 percent of total consolidated shareholders  equity
    are in the following industries (in descending order by
    approximate size):

oil and gas companies;

electric and water utilities; and

global telecommunications companies.

Some of AIG s exposures are insured ( wrapped )
    by financial guarantor insurance companies, also known as
     monoline insurers , which at December 31, 2008,
    provided AIG over $36 billion (carrying value) in financial
    support. The monoline insurers, many of which now have
    non-investment grade credit ratings, provide support
    predominantly in the United States. AIG does not rely on the
    monoline insurance as its principal source of repayment when
    evaluating securities for purchase. All investment securities
    are evaluated primarily based on the underlying cash flow
    generation capacities of the issuer or cash flow characteristics
    of the security.

The CRC reviews quarterly concentration reports in all
    categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk
    ratings. The CRC may adjust limits to provide reasonable
    assurance that AIG does not incur excessive levels of credit
    risk and that AIG s credit risk profile is properly
    calibrated across business units.

Market
    Risk Management   

AIG is exposed to market risks, primarily within its insurance
    and capital markets businesses (see Overview  
    Outlook   Financial Services on Capital Markets
    regarding its market risk issues and management as transactions
    in that business are wound down). For AIG s insurance
    operations, the asset-liability exposures are predominantly
    structural in nature, and not the result of speculative
    positioning to take advantage of short-term market
    opportunities. For example, the business model of life insurance
    and retirement savings is to collect premiums or deposits from
    policyholders and invest the proceeds in predominantly
    long-term, credit based assets. A spread is earned over time
    between the asset yield and the funding cost payable to
    policyholders. The asset and liability profiles are managed so
    that the cash flows resulting from invested assets are
    sufficient to meet policyholder obligations when

176    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

they become due without the need to sell assets prematurely into
    a potentially distressed market. In periods of severe market
    volatility, as currently being experienced, depressed and
    illiquid market values on otherwise performing investments
    diminish shareholders  equity even without the realization
    of actual credit event related losses. Such diminution of
    capital strength is causing downward pressure on the
    market s assessment of the financial strength and the
    credit ratings of insurers.

The Market Risk Management function (MRM), which reports to the
    CRO, is responsible for control and oversight of market risks in
    all aspects of AIG s financial services, insurance, and
    investment activities.

AIG s market exposures can be categorized as follows:

Benchmark interest rates.   Benchmark interest
    rates are also known as risk-free interest rates and are
    associated with either the government / treasury yield
    curve or the swap curve. The fair value of AIG s
    significant fixed maturity securities portfolio changes as
    benchmark interest rates change.

Credit spread or risk premium.   Credit spread
    risk is the potential for loss due to a change in an
    instrument s risk premium or yield relative to that of a
    comparable-duration, default-free instrument.

Equity and alternative investment
    prices.   AIG s exposure to equity and
    alternative investment prices arises from direct investments in
    common stocks and mutual funds, from minimum benefit guarantees
    embedded in the structure of certain variable annuity and
    variable life insurance products and from other equity-like
    investments, such as partnerships comprised of hedge funds and
    private equity funds, private equity investments, commercial
    real estate and real estate funds.

Foreign currency exchange rates.   AIG is a
    globally diversified enterprise with significant income, assets
    and liabilities denominated in and significant capital deployed
    in a variety of currencies.

AIG uses a number of measures and approaches to measure and
    quantify its market risk exposure, including:

Duration / key rate
    duration.   Duration is the measure of the
    sensitivities of a fixed-income instrument to the parallel shift
    in the benchmark yield curve. Key rate duration measures
    sensitivities to the movement at a given term point on the yield
    curve.

Scenario analysis.   Scenario analysis uses
    historical, hypothetical, or forward-looking macro-economic
    scenarios to assess and report exposures. Examples of
    hypothetical scenarios include a 100 basis point parallel
    shift in the yield curve or a 10 percent immediate and
    simultaneous decrease in world-wide equity markets.

Value-at-Risk 
    (VaR).   VaR is a summary statistical measure that
    uses the estimated volatility and correlation of market factors
    to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined
    period of time with a specified level of statistical confidence.
    VaR measures not only the size of individual exposures but also
    the interaction between different market exposures, thereby
    providing a portfolio approach to measuring market risk. A key
    shortcoming of the VaR approach is its reliance on historical
    data, making VaR calculations essentially  backward
    looking.  This shortcoming was most evident during the
    current credit crisis.

Stress testing.   Stress testing is a special
    form of scenario analysis whereby the scenarios used are
    designed to lead to a material adverse outcome (for example, the
    stock market crash of October 1987 or the widening of yields or
    spread of RMBS or CMBS during 2008). Stress testing is often
    used to address VaR shortcomings and complement VaR
    calculations. Particularly in times of significant volatility in
    financial markets, using stress scenarios provides more
    pertinent and forward-looking information on market risk
    exposure than VaR results based upon historical data alone.

The magnitudes of volatilities of financial markets and degree
    of correlation among different markets, risks and asset classes
    in 2008 were unprecedented and rendered the VaR measure that is
    based on historical data analysis a much less reliable and
    indicative risk measure. As a result, AIG believes that the
    historical data based VaR measure does not effectively convey
    the market risks to which AIG is subject. Therefore, as an
    alternative, AIG has used sensitivities under specific scenarios
    to convey the magnitude of its exposures to various key market
    risk factors, such as yield curve, equity markets and
    alternative assets, and foreign currency exchange rates. For
    Insurance, Asset Management, and Financial Services (excluding
    Capital Markets), these sensitivities and scenarios are shown in
    the table below.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    177 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Insurance,
    Asset Management and Financial Services (excluding Capital
    Markets) Sensitivities  

The following table provides estimates of AIG s
    sensitivity to a yield curve upward shift, equity losses and
    foreign currency exchange rate losses at December 31,
    2008: 

Exposures for yield curves include assets that are directly
    sensitive to yield curve movements, such as fixed-maturity
    securities, loans, finance receivables and short-term
    investments (excluding consolidated separate account assets per
     SOP 03-1). 
    Exposures for equity and alternative investment prices include
    investments in common stocks, preferred stocks, mutual funds,
    hedge funds, private equity funds, commercial real estate and
    real estate funds (excluding consolidated separate account
    assets per
     SOP 03-1 
    and consolidated managed partnerships and funds). Exposures to
    foreign currency exchange rates reflect AIG s consolidated
     non-U.S. dollar 
    net capital investments on a GAAP basis.

The above sensitivities of a 100 bps upward shift in yield
    curves, a 15 percent drop in equities and alternative
    assets, and a 10 percent depreciation of all foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar were chosen
    solely for illustrative purposes. The selection of these
    specific events should not be construed as a prediction, but
    only as a demonstration of the potential effects of such events.
    These scenarios should not be construed as the only risks AIG
    faces; these events are shown as an indication of several
    possible losses AIG could experience. In addition, losses from
    these and other risks could be materially higher than
    illustrated.

The sensitivity factors presented above were selected based on
    historical data from 1987 to 2007, as follows (see the table
    below):

a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve is
    consistent with a one standard deviation movement of the
    benchmark ten-year treasury yield;

a 15 percent drop for equity and alternative investments is
    consistent with a one standard deviation movement in the
    S P 500; and

a 10 percent depreciation of foreign currency exchange
    rates is consistent with a one standard deviation movement in
    the USD/JPY exchange rate.

Total non-trading market risk based on AIG s previously
    reported VaR measure resulted in total non-trading market risk
    of $10.4 billion at December 31, 2008 compared to
    $5.6 billion at December 31, 2007. The increase in VaR
    primarily results from much higher volatilities in financial
    markets and by a significant decrease in benchmark interest
    rates globally.

Operational
    Risk Management   

AIG s Operational Risk Management department (ORM) oversees
    AIG s operational risk management practices. The Director
    of ORM reports to the CRO. ORM is responsible for establishing
    the framework, principles and guidelines of AIG s
    operational risk management program. AIG has implemented an
    operational risk management framework and a risk and control
    self assessment (RCSA) process.

178    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Each business unit is responsible for implementing the
    components of the operational risk management program to ensure
    that effective operational risk management practices are
    utilized throughout AIG. Business units are currently in the
    process of enhancing their governance frameworks in order to
    perform more robust risk assessments. In addition, business
    units involved in the disposition process will be engaged in the
    assessment of the specific operational risks attendant to a
    separation from AIG.

Insurance
    Risk Management   

Reinsurance  

AIG uses reinsurance programs for its insurance risks as follows:

Facultative agreements to cover large individual exposures;

Quota share treaties to cover specific books of business;

Excess-of-loss treaties to cover large losses;

Excess or surplus automatic treaties to cover individual life
    risks in excess of stated per-life retention limits; and

Catastrophe treaties to cover specific catastrophes, including
    earthquake, windstorm and flood.

AIG monitors its exposures to natural catastrophes and takes
    corrective actions to limit its exposure with respect to
    particular geographic areas, companies, or perils. During the
    fourth quarter of 2008, Lexington reduced its exposure to
    natural catastrophes by approximately $900 million through
    facultative reinsurance placements.

AIG s Reinsurance Security Department (RSD) conducts
    periodic detailed assessments of the financial status and
    condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and
    domestic. The RSD monitors both the nature of the risks ceded to
    the reinsurers and the aggregation of total reinsurance
    recoverables ceded to reinsurers. Such assessments may include,
    but are not limited to, identifying if a reinsurer is
    appropriately licensed and has sufficient financial capacity and
    evaluating the local economic environment in which a foreign
    reinsurer operates.

The RSD reviews the nature of the risks ceded to reinsurers and
    the need for credit risk mitigants. For example, in AIG s
    treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG frequently includes provisions
    that require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced
    event occurs. Furthermore, AIG limits its unsecured exposure to
    reinsurers through the use of credit triggers which include but
    are not limited to, insurer financial strength rating
    downgrades, declines in statutory surplus below pre-determined
    levels, decreases in NAIC risk-based capital (RBC) below certain
    levels, or setting maximum limits for reinsurance recoverables.
    In addition, AIG s CRC reviews all reinsurer exposures and
    credit limits and approves most large reinsurer credit limits
    above pre-set limits that represent actual or potential credit
    concentrations. AIG believes that no exposure to a single
    reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to
    AIG, nor is AIG s business substantially dependent upon any
    single reinsurance contract.

AIG enters into intercompany reinsurance transactions for its
    General Insurance and Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services operations. AIG enters into these transactions as a
    sound and prudent business practice in order to maintain
    underwriting control and spread insurance risk among AIG s
    various legal entities and to leverage economies of scale with
    external reinsurers. When required for statutory recognition,
    AIG obtains letters of credit from third-party financial
    institutions to collateralize these intercompany transactions.
    At December 31, 2008, approximately $5.4 billion of
    letters of credit were outstanding to cover intercompany
    reinsurance transactions among subsidiaries.

Although reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG
    subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds, an
    efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially
    mitigates AIG s exposure to potentially significant losses.
    AIG continually evaluates the reinsurance markets and the
    relative attractiveness of various arrangements for coverage,
    including structures such as catastrophe bonds, insurance risk
    securitizations,  sidecars  and similar vehicles.

AIG purchased U.S. property catastrophe coverage of
    approximately $1.35 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009
    and 2008, respectively, in excess of a per occurrence deductible
    of $1.5 billion. In addition, AIG purchased over
    $640 million in workers  compensation catastrophe
    reinsurance that was not purchased in 2008. For Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services, AIG s 2008
    catastrophe program covers losses of $250 million in excess
    of

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    179 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

$200 million for Japan and Taiwan only. No assurance can be
    given that AIG will be able to obtain this level of coverage in
    2009.

Reinsurance
    Recoverable    

General reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of:

Balances due from reinsurers for indemnity losses and loss
    expenses billed to, but not yet collected from, reinsurers (Paid
    Losses Recoverable);

Ultimate ceded reserves for indemnity losses and expenses,
    including reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and
    estimates for IBNR (collectively, Ceded Loss Reserves); and

Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums.

At December 31, 2008, reinsurance assets of
    $21.9 billion include Paid Losses Recoverable of
    $1.3 billion and Ceded Loss Reserves of $16.8 billion,
    and $4.2 billion of Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums.
    The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting
    ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of
    losses over multiple years and are continually reviewed and
    updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income
    currently. It is AIG s belief that the ceded reserves for
    losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2008 reflect the
    ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may differ from the
    reserves currently ceded.

AIG manages the credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by
    transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound,
    and when necessary AIG requires reinsurers to post substantial
    collateral in the form of funds, securities
     and/or 
    irrevocable letters of credit. This collateral can be drawn on
    for amounts that remain unpaid beyond specified time periods on
    an individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2008,
    approximately 55 percent of the reinsurance assets were
    from unauthorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and
    unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not
    creditworthiness. More than 52 percent of these balances
    were collateralized, permitting statutory recognition.
    Additionally, with the approval of insurance regulators, AIG
    posted approximately $1.6 billion of letters of credit
    issued by commercial banks and $2.9 billion of trust in
    favor of certain General Insurance companies to permit those
    companies statutory recognition of balances otherwise
    uncollateralized at December 31, 2008. The remaining
    45 percent of the reinsurance assets were from authorized
    reinsurers. At December 31, 2008, approximately
    84 percent of the balances with respect to authorized
    reinsurers are from reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as
    rated by A.M. Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by
    S P. These ratings are measures of financial strength.

The following table provides information for each reinsurer
    representing in excess of five percent of AIG s total
    reinsurance assets: 

(a)   

The financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the
    various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of
    February 18, 2009.  

(b)   

Excludes collateral held in excess of applicable treaty
    balances.  

(c)   

Excludes Equitas gross reinsurance assets that are unrated,
    which are less than five percent of AIG s general
    reinsurance assets.  

180    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG maintains an allowance for estimated unrecoverable
    reinsurance of $425 million. At December 31, 2008, AIG
    had no significant reinsurance recoverables due from any
    individual reinsurer that was financially troubled (i.e.,
    liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to
    formal or informal regulatory restriction). In the current
    environment of weaker economic conditions and strained financial
    markets, certain reinsurers are reporting losses and could be
    subject to rating downgrades. AIG s reinsurance recoverable
    exposures are primarily to the regulated subsidiaries of such
    companies which are subject to minimum regulatory capital
    requirements. The RSD, in conjunction with CRM, is reviewing
    these developments, is monitoring compliance with credit
    triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and,
    as appropriate, will seek to use other means to mitigate any
    material risks arising from these developments.

Segment
    Risk Management   

Other than as described above, AIG manages its business risk
    oversight activities through its business segments.

Insurance
    Operations  

AIG s multiple insurance businesses conducted on a global
    basis expose AIG to a wide variety of risks with different time
    horizons. These risks are managed throughout the organization,
    both centrally and locally, through a number of procedures,
    including:

pre-launch approval of product design, development and
    distribution;

underwriting approval processes and authorities;

exposure limits with ongoing monitoring;

modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations
    at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product group,
    country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk
    events);

compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency
    targets;

extensive use of reinsurance, both internal and
    third-party; and

review and establishment of reserves.

AIG closely manages insurance risk by overseeing and controlling
    the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of
    business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the
    underwriting and the premiums charged for taking on the risk.
    Concentrations of risk are analyzed using various modeling
    techniques and include, but are not limited to, wind, flood,
    earthquake, terrorism and accident.

AIG has two major categories of insurance risks as follows:

General Insurance    risks covered include
    property, casualty, fidelity/surety, management liability and
    mortgage insurance. Risks in the general insurance segment are
    managed through aggregations and limitations of concentrations
    at multiple levels: policy, line of business, correlation and
    catastrophic risk events.

Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services    risks include mortality and morbidity
    in the insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows
    to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings-oriented
    products. Risks are managed through product design, sound
    medical underwriting, external traditional reinsurance programs
    and external catastrophe reinsurance programs.

AIG is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its insurance
    operations. The use of reinsurance facilitates insurance risk
    management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital
    planning locally (branch and subsidiary). AIG may purchase
    reinsurance on a pooling basis. Pooling of AIG s
    reinsurance risks enables AIG to purchase reinsurance more
    efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty
    risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both
    for the General Insurance and Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services businesses.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    181 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

General
    Insurance    

In General Insurance, underwriting risks are managed through the
    application approval process, exposure limitations as well as
    through exclusions, coverage limits and reinsurance. The risks
    covered by AIG are managed through limits on delegated
    underwriting authority, the use of sound underwriting practices,
    pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis as part of
    the determination of overall adequacy of provisions for
    insurance contract liabilities.

A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance
    operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this
    goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, and
    premiums must be adequate and terms and conditions appropriate
    to cover the risk accepted.

Catastrophe
    Exposures  

The nature of AIG s business exposes it to various
    catastrophic events in which multiple losses across multiple
    lines of business can occur in any calendar year. In order to
    control this exposure, AIG uses a combination of techniques,
    including setting aggregate limits in key business units,
    monitoring and modeling accumulated exposures, and purchasing
    catastrophe reinsurance to supplement its other reinsurance
    protections.

Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other
    catastrophes have the potential to adversely affect AIG s
    operating results. Other risks, such as an outbreak of a
    pandemic disease, such as the Avian Influenza A Virus (H5N1),
    could adversely affect AIG s business and operating results
    to an extent that may be only partially offset by reinsurance
    programs.

AIG evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability
    of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the
    use of industry recognized models, among other techniques. AIG
    updates these models by periodically monitoring the exposure
    risks of AIG s worldwide General Insurance operations and
    adjusting such models accordingly. Following is an overview of
    modeled losses associated with the more significant natural
    perils, which includes exposures for Commercial Insurance Group,
    Personal Lines, Foreign General, HSB and 21st Century
    Insurance (21st Century). Transatlantic utilizes a
    different model, and its results are presented separately below.
    Significant Life and accident and health (A H) exposures
    have been added to these results as well. The modeled results
    assume that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to AIG in
    accordance with their terms.

It is important to recognize that there is no standard
    methodology to project the possible losses from total property
    and workers  compensation exposures. Further, there are no
    industry standard assumptions to be utilized in projecting these
    losses. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could
    materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled
    losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other
    companies. These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not
    reflect AIG s maximum exposures to these events. It is
    highly likely that AIG s losses will vary, perhaps
    significantly, from these estimates.

The modeled results provided in the table below were based on
    the aggregate exceedence probability (AEP) losses, which
    represent total property, workers  compensation, life, and
    A H losses that may occur in any single year from one or
    more natural events. The Life and A H data include
    exposures for United States, Japan and Taiwan earthquakes. These
    represent the largest share of Life and A H exposures to
    earthquakes. A H losses were modeled using April 2008 data,
    and Life losses were modeled using May 2008 data for Japan and
    Taiwan and February 2007 data for the United States. The
    property exposures for AIG s largest property exposures,
    Lexington commercial lines and Private Client Group, were
    modeled with data as of September 2008, and June 2008 data was
    used for most other divisions. All reinsurance program
    structures, including both domestic and international
    structures, reflect the reinsurance programs in place as of
    January 31, 2009. The values provided were based on
     100-year 
    return period losses, which have a one percent likelihood of
    being exceeded in any single year. Thus, the model projects that
    there is a one percent probability that AIG could incur in any
    year losses in excess of the

182    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

modeled amounts for these perils. Losses include loss adjustment
    expenses and the net values include reinstatement premiums.

*   

Includes hurricanes, typhoons and European Windstorms.  

Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses increased
    $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, compared
    to 2007 while net losses increased $1.1 billion and
    $1.1 billion, respectively, compared to 2007. These
    increases are primarily due to exposure growth and the inclusion
    of Ascot.

In addition to the return period loss, AIG evaluates potential
    single event earthquake and hurricane losses that may be
    incurred. The single events utilized are a subset of potential
    events identified and utilized by Lloyd s  (see
    Lloyd s Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario
    Specifications, April 2006)  and referred to as
    Realistic Disaster Scenarios (RDSs). The purpose of this
    analysis is to utilize these RDSs to provide a reference frame
    and place into context the model results. However, it is
    important to note that the specific events used for this
    analysis do not necessarily represent the worst case loss that
    AIG could incur from this type of an event in these regions. The
    losses associated with the RDSs are included in the following
    table.

Single-event modeled property and workers  compensation
    losses to AIG s worldwide portfolio of risk for key
    geographic areas are set forth below. Gross values represent
    AIG s liability after the application of policy limits and
    deductibles, and net values represent losses after reinsurance
    is applied; the net losses also include reinsurance
    reinstatement premiums. Both gross and net losses include loss
    adjustment expenses. 

AIG also monitors key international property risks utilizing
    modeled statistical return period losses. Based on these
    simulations, the
     100-year 
    return period loss for Japanese Earthquake is $335 million
    gross and $180 million net; the
     100-year 
    return period loss for European Windstorm is $577 million
    gross and $186 million net; and the
     100-year 
    return period loss for Japanese Typhoon is $504 million
    gross and $172 million net.

The losses provided above do not include Transatlantic. The one
    in  100-year 
    AEP amounts for AIG s share (59 percent) of
    Transatlantic are as follows:

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    183 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

ACTUAL RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO VARY, PERHAPS
    MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS, AND THE OCCURRENCE OF
    ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT
    ON AIG S FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
    LIQUIDITY.

Terrorism   

Exposure to loss from terrorist attack is controlled by limiting
    the aggregate accumulation of workers  compensation and
    property insurance that is underwritten within defined target
    locations. Modeling is used to provide projections of probable
    maximum loss by target location based upon the actual exposures
    of AIG policyholders.

Terrorism risk is monitored to manage AIG s exposure. AIG
    shares its exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk
    Insurance Act (TRIA). During 2008, AIG s deductible under
    TRIA was approximately $4.2 billion, with a 15 percent
    share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible.
    As of January 1, 2009, the deductible decreased to
    approximately $3.8 billion, with a 15 percent share of
    certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible.

Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services    

In Life Insurance   Retirement Services, the primary
    risks are the following:

Pricing risk, which represents the potential exposure to loss
    resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely in
    comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing associated
    with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses; and

Investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting
    from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than
    cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected
    policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on
    investments.

AIG businesses manage these risks through product design,
    exposure limitations and the active management of the
    asset-liability relationship in their operations. The emergence
    of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to
    DAC and benefit reserves that could have a material adverse
    effect on AIG s consolidated results of operations for a
    particular period. For a further discussion of this risk, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Adjustments to Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services Deferred Policy
    Acquisition Costs.

AIG s Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services companies generally limit their maximum underwriting
    exposure on life insurance of a single life to approximately
    $5 million of coverage in certain circumstances. AIG s
    Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services
    companies limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life
    insurance of a single life to $15 million of coverage in
    certain circumstances by using yearly renewable term
    reinsurance. In Life Insurance   Retirement Services,
    the reinsurance programs provide risk mitigation per life for
    individual and group covers and for catastrophic risk events.

Pandemic
    Influenza  

The potential for a pandemic influenza outbreak has received
    much attention. While outbreaks of the Avian Flu continue to
    occur among poultry or wild birds in a number of countries in
    Asia, Europe, including the U.K., and Africa, transmission to
    humans has been rare to date. If the virus mutates to a form
    that can be transmitted from human to human, it has the
    potential to spread rapidly worldwide. If such an outbreak were
    to take place, early quarantine and vaccination could be
    critical to containment.

The contagion and mortality rates of any mutated H5N1 virus that
    can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative.
    AIG continues to monitor the developing facts. A significant
    global outbreak could have a material adverse effect on Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services operating results and
    liquidity from increased mortality and morbidity rates.

Utilizing a scenario-based approach, AIG has analyzed its
    insurance risk associated with this peril. For a severe event,
    considered to be a recurrence of the 1918 Pandemic Flu, the
    analysis indicates AIG could incur a pre-tax loss of
    approximately $6.2 billion if this event were to recur. For
    a mild event, considered to be a recurrence of the 1968

184    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Pandemic Flu, the analysis indicates AIG could incur a pre-tax
    loss of approximately $0.6 billion if this event were to
    recur. The analyses were based on 2007 policy data representing
    approximately 95 percent of AIG s individual life,
    group life and credit life books of business, net of reinsurance
    at that point in time. This estimate does not include claims
    that could be made under other policies, such as business
    interruption or general liability policies, and does not reflect
    estimates for losses resulting from disruption of AIG s own
    business operations or asset losses that may arise out of such a
    pandemic. The model used to generate these estimates has been
    developed only recently. The reasonableness of the model and its
    underlying assumptions cannot readily be verified by reference
    to comparable historical events. As a result, AIG s actual
    losses from a pandemic influenza outbreak are likely to vary
    significantly from those predicted by the model.

Financial
    Services  

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
    activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, consumer
    finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft
    Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations
    generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial
    Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial
    Services income principally by providing insurance premium
    financing for both AIG s policyholders and those of other
    insurers.

Capital
    Markets    

Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which
    engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial
    transactions, including standard and customized financial
    products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy,
    equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invested in a
    diversified portfolio of securities and principal investments
    and engaged in borrowing activities that involve issuing
    standard and structured notes and other securities and entering
    into GIAs. Given the extreme market conditions experienced in
    2008, downgrades of AIG s credit ratings by the rating
    agencies, as well as because of AIG s intent to refocus on
    its core businesses, AIGFP has begun to unwind its businesses
    and portfolios.

The senior management of AIG defines the policies and
    establishes general operating parameters for Capital Markets
    operations. AIG s senior management has established various
    oversight committees to monitor on an ongoing basis the various
    financial market, operational and credit risk attendant to the
    Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIGFP
    reports the results of its operations to and reviews future
    strategies with AIG s senior management.

AIGFP actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic
    losses, and in doing so, AIGFP must continually manage a variety
    of exposures including credit, market, liquidity, operational
    and legal risks.

Derivative
    Transactions  

A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a
    derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending
    credit
     and/or 
    carrying trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists
    for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair
    value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or
    decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a
    function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this
    risk, AIGFP s credit department operates within the
    guidelines set by the CRC. Transactions which fall outside these
    pre-established guidelines require the specific approval of the
    CRC. It is also AIG s policy to establish reserves for
    potential credit impairment when necessary.

In addition, AIGFP utilizes various credit enhancements,
    including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit
    triggers, credit derivatives and margin agreements to reduce the
    credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative
    transactions. AIGFP requires credit enhancements in connection
    with specific transactions based on, among other things, the
    creditworthiness of the counterparties, and the
    transaction s size and maturity. Furthermore, AIGFP
    generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit
    of set-off and close-out netting provisions. These provisions
    provide that, in the case of an early termination of a
    transaction, AIGFP can set off its receivables from a
    counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty
    arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a
    legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of
    the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of
    estimated fair values. The fair value of AIGFP s interest
    rate, currency, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions,
    and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts
    approximated

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    185 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

$16.0 billion at December 31, 2008 and
    $17.1 billion at December 31, 2007. Where applicable,
    these amounts have been determined in accordance with the
    respective master netting agreements.

AIGFP evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to
    ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not
    available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating
    policies of the CRC. In addition, AIGFP s credit approval
    process involves pre-set counterparty and country credit
    exposure limits subject to approval by the CRC and, for
    particularly credit-intensive transactions, requires approval
    from the CRC. AIG estimates that the average credit rating of
    Capital Markets derivatives counterparties, measured by
    reference to the fair value of its derivative portfolio as a
    whole, is equivalent to the AA rating category.

The fair value of Capital Markets derivatives portfolios by
    counterparty credit rating was as follows: 

See Critical Accounting Estimates and Note 10 for
    additional discussion related to derivative transactions.

Capital
    Markets Trading VaR  

AIGFP attempts to minimize risk in benchmark interest rates,
    equities, commodities and foreign exchange. Market exposures in
    option-implied volatilities, correlations and basis risks are
    also minimized over time.

AIGFP s minimal reliance on market risk-driven revenue is
    reflected in its VaR. AIGFP s VaR calculation is based on
    the interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange risk
    arising from its portfolio. Credit-related factors, such as
    credit spreads or credit default, are not included in
    AIGFP s VaR calculation. Because the market risk with
    respect to securities available for sale, at market, is
    substantially hedged, segregation of the financial instruments
    into trading and other than trading was not considered
    necessary. AIGFP operates under established market risk limits
    based upon this VaR calculation. In addition, AIGFP back-tests
    its VaR.

In the calculation of VaR for AIGFP, AIG uses the historical
    simulation methodology based on estimated changes to the value
    of all transactions under explicit changes in market rates and
    prices within a specific historical time period. AIGFP attempts
    to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such
    as published exchange prices, external subscription services,
    such as Bloomberg or Reuters, or third-party or broker quotes.
    When such prices are not available, AIGFP uses an internal
    methodology that includes extrapolation from observable and
    verifiable prices nearest to the dates of the transactions.
    Historically, actual results have not deviated from these models
    in any material respect.

AIGFP reports its VaR level using a 95 percent confidence
    level and a
     one-day 
    holding period, facilitating risk comparison with AIGFP s
    trading peers and reflecting the fact that market risks can be
    actively assumed and offset in AIGFP s trading portfolio.

186    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

The following table presents the year-end, average, high, and
    low VaRs on a diversified basis and of each component of market
    risk for Capital Markets operations. The diversified VaR is
    usually smaller than the sum of its components due to
    correlation effects. 

See Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities for a
    comprehensive discussion of AIGFP s super senior credit
    default swap portfolio.

Aircraft
    Leasing    

AIG s Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations
    of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new
    and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic
    airlines. Revenues also result from the re-marketing of
    commercial jet aircraft for ILFC s own account and
    re-marketing and fleet management services for airlines and
    financial institutions. Risks inherent in this business, which
    are managed at the business unit level, include the following:

the risk that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired;

the risk that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees;

the risk of non-performance by lessees; and

the risk that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of
    at the time and in a manner desired.

The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic
    conditions and is cyclical and highly competitive. Airlines and
    related companies may be affected by political or economic
    instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy,
    competitive pressures on certain air carriers, fuel prices and
    shortages, labor stoppages, insurance costs, recessions, world
    health issues and other political or economic events adversely
    affecting world or regional trading markets.

ILFC s revenues and operating income may be adversely
    affected by the volatile competitive environment in which its
    customers operate. ILFC is exposed to operating loss and
    liquidity strain through non-performance of aircraft lessees,
    through owning aircraft which it is unable to sell or re-lease
    at acceptable rates at lease expiration, and, in part, through
    committing to purchase aircraft which it is unable to lease.

To date ILFC manages the risk of nonperformance by its lessees
    with security deposit requirements, repossession rights,
    overhaul requirements and close monitoring of industry
    conditions through its marketing force. More than
    90 percent of ILFC s fleet is leased to
     non-U.S. carriers, 
    and the fleet, comprised of the most efficient aircraft in the
    airline industry, continues to be in high demand from such
    carriers.

Management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently
    than quarterly, issues affecting ILFC s fleet, including
    events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft
    values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary
    based on these events and circumstances in accordance with
    FAS 144. ILFC has not recognized any impairment related to
    its fleet in 2008, 2007 or 2006. ILFC has been able to re-lease
    the aircraft without diminution in lease rates that would result
    in an impairment under FAS 144.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    187 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consumer
    Finance    

AIG s Consumer Finance operations in North America are
    principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its
    revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans,
    secured and unsecured non-real estate loans and retail sales
    finance receivables. In the second quarter of 2008, AGF ceased
    its wholesale origination activities (originations through
    mortgage brokers).

AIG s foreign consumer finance operations are principally
    conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging
    and developing markets. AIGCFG has operations in Argentina,
    China, Brazil, Hong Kong, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland,
    Taiwan, Thailand, India and Colombia. AIGCFG is currently
    considering the sale of all or a portion of its operations.

Many of AGF s borrowers are non-prime or subprime. The real
    estate loans are comprised principally of first-lien mortgages
    on residential real estate generally having a maximum term of
    360 months, and are considered non-conforming. The real
    estate loans are principally closed-end accounts and fixed rate
    products. AGF does not offer mortgage products with borrower
    payment options that allow for negative amortization of the
    principal balance. The majority of AGF s non-real estate
    loans are secured by consumer goods, automobiles or other
    personal property. Both secured and unsecured non-real estate
    loans and retail sales finance receivables generally have a
    maximum term of 60 months.

Current economic conditions, such as interest rate and
    employment levels, can have a direct effect on the
    borrowers  ability to repay these loans. AGF manages the
    credit risk inherent in its portfolio by using credit scoring
    models at the time of credit applications, established
    underwriting criteria and review procedures. AGF systematically
    monitors the quality of the finance receivables portfolio and
    determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses
    through its Credit Strategy and Policy Committee. This Committee
    bases its conclusions on quantitative analyses, qualitative
    factors, current economic conditions and trends, and each
    Committee member s experience in the consumer finance
    industry.

The overall credit quality of AGF s finance receivable
    portfolio deteriorated during 2008 due to negative economic
    fundamentals and the aging of the real estate loan portfolio.
    Based upon anticipated difficult economic conditions for the
    U.S. consumer, AGF expects credit quality to remain under
    pressure in the remainder of 2009.

At December 31, 2008, the
     60-day 
    delinquency rate for the entire portfolio increased by
    215 basis points to 4.99 percent compared to
    December 31, 2007, while the
     60-day 
    delinquency rate for real estate loans increased by
    247 basis points to 5.11 percent. For 2008, AGF s
    net charge-off rate increased to 2.08 percent compared to
    1.16 percent in 2007.

AGF s allowance for finance receivable losses as a
    percentage of outstanding receivables was 4.61 percent at
    December 31, 2008 compared to 2.36 percent at
    December 31, 2007.

AIGCFG monitors the quality of its finance receivable portfolio
    and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses
    through several internal committees. These committees base their
    conclusions on quantitative analysis, qualitative factors,
    current economic conditions and trends, political and regulatory
    implications, competition and the judgment of the
    committees  members.

AIG s Consumer Finance operations are exposed to credit
    risk and risk of loss resulting from adverse fluctuations in
    interest rates and payment defaults. Credit loss exposure is
    managed through a combination of underwriting controls, mix of
    finance receivables, collateral and collection efficiency. Large
    product programs and exposures to certain high risk products are
    subject to CRC approval.

Over half of the finance receivables are real estate loans which
    are collateralized by the related properties. With respect to
    credit losses, the allowance for losses is maintained at a level
    considered adequate to absorb anticipated credit losses existing
    in that portfolio as of the balance sheet date.

Asset
    Management  

AIG s Asset Management operations are exposed to various
    forms of credit, market and operational risks. Asset Management
    complies with AIG s corporate risk management guidelines
    and framework and is subject to

188    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

periodic reviews by the CRC. In addition, transactions are
    referred to the Asset Management investment committees for
    approval of investment decisions.

The majority of the credit and market risk exposures within
    Asset Management results from the Spread-Based Investment
    business and the investment activities of AIG Global Real Estate
    and to a lesser extent, assets originally acquired for warehouse
    purposes.

In the Spread-Based Investment business, the primary risk is
    investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting
    from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than the
    cash flows required to meet the obligations of the liabilities
    and the necessary return on investments. Credit risk is also a
    significant component of the investment strategy for these
    businesses. Market risk is taken in the form of duration and
    convexity risk. While AIG generally maintains a matched
    asset-liability relationship, it may occasionally determine that
    it is economically advantageous to be in an unmatched duration
    position. The risks in the Spread-Based Investment business are
    managed through exposure limitations, active management of the
    investment portfolios and close oversight of the asset-liability
    relationship.

AIG Global Real Estate is exposed to the general conditions in
    global real estate markets and the credit markets. Such exposure
    can subject Asset Management to delays in real estate property
    development and sales, additional carrying costs and in turn
    affect operating results within the segment. Also negatively
    affecting current market conditions is the lack of available
    funding for development, repositioning and refinancing. These
    risks are mitigated through the underwriting process,
    transaction and contract terms and conditions and portfolio
    diversification by type of project, sponsor, real estate market
    and country. AIG s exposure to real estate investments is
    monitored on an ongoing basis by the Asset Management Real
    Estate Investment Committee.

Asset Management is also exposed to market and liquidity risk
    with respect to the warehoused investing activities of AIG
    Investments. During the warehousing period, AIG bears the cost
    and risks associated with carrying these investments and may
    consolidate them on its balance sheet and records the operating
    results until the investments are transferred, sold or otherwise
    divested. Changes in market conditions may negatively affect the
    fair value of these warehoused investments. As a result of
    AIG s restructuring initiatives, AIG Investments 
    intended launch of new products and funds for which these
    warehouse investments were targeted have been indefinitely
    postponed. Accordingly, AIG will retain all current warehouse
    investments with a net asset value of $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2008 as permanent balance sheet investments
    until such time that they can be divested. Further, certain of
    these warehoused investments include unfunded investment
    commitments of $720 million at December 31, 2008 which
    are to be funded over the next three to five years.

Recent
    Accounting Standards  

Accounting
    Changes   

In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements. 

In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities. 

In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP
     FIN 39-1, 
    which modifies FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 39,
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts. 

In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active. 

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities
    (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests
    in Variable Interest Entities. 

In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP
     EITF 99-20-1, 
     Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue
     No. 99-20  
    (FSP
     EITF 99-20-1). 

Future
    Application of Accounting Standards   

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141 (revised 2007),
     Business Combinations. 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    189 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51. 

In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and
    Repurchase Financing Transactions. 

In March 2008, the FASB issued FAS 161,  Disclosures
    about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  
    an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. 

In May 2008, the FASB issued FAS 162,  The Hierarchy
    of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 

In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
    EITF on Issue
     No. 07-5, 
     Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock. 

In September 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4, 
     Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain
    Guarantees: An amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB
    Interpretation No. 45. 

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,
     Employer s Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit
    Plan Assets. 

For further discussion of these recent accounting standards and
    their application to AIG, see Note 1(hh) to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Included in Item 7. Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

American
    International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Index to Financial
    Statements and Schedules  

190    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of American
    International Group, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of American International Group, Inc. and
    its subsidiaries (AIG) at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and
    the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the
    financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying index
    present fairly, in all material respects, the information set
    forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
    consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, AIG
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). AIG s
    management is responsible for these financial statements and
    financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective
    internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment
    of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.
    Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
    statements, on the financial statement schedules, and on
    AIG s internal control over financial reporting based on
    our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance
    with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
    Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, as of January 1, 2008, AIG adopted a new
    framework for measuring fair value and elected an option to
    report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
    Also, AIG changed the manner in which it accounts for internal
    replacements of certain insurance and investment contracts,
    uncertainty in income taxes, and changes or projected changes in
    the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated by
    leveraged lease transactions on January 1, 2007, and
    certain employee benefit plans as of December 31, 2006.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 23 to the consolidated
    financial statements, AIG has received substantial financial
    support from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (NY Fed)
    and the United States Department of Treasury (US Treasury).
    AIG is dependent upon the continued financial support of the
    NY Fed and US Treasury.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

New York, New York

March 2, 2009

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    191 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

192    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet   (Continued)  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    193 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Statement of Income (Loss)  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

194    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Statement of Shareholders  Equity  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    195 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders 
    Equity   (Continued) 

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

196    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    197 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows   (Continued)  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

198    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Consolidated
    Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    199 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Index of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

200    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

1.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Basis of
    Presentation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    American International Group, Inc. (AIG), its controlled
    subsidiaries, and variable interest entities in which AIG is the
    primary beneficiary. Entities that AIG does not consolidate but
    in which it holds 20 percent to 50 percent of the
    voting rights
     and/or  has
    the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for
    under the equity method.

Certain of AIG s foreign subsidiaries included in the
    consolidated financial statements report on a fiscal year ended
    November 30. The effect on AIG s consolidated
    financial condition and results of operations of all material
    events occurring between November 30 and December 31 for all
    periods presented has been recorded.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been
    prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles (GAAP). All material intercompany accounts
    and transactions have been eliminated.

Going
    Concern Considerations  

Recent
    Events   

During the third quarter of 2008, requirements (i) to post
    collateral in connection with AIG Financial Products Corp. and
    AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries 
    (collectively, AIGFP) credit default swap (CDS) portfolio and
    other AIGFP transactions and (ii) to fund returns of
    securities lending collateral placed stress on AIG s
    liquidity. AIG s stock price declined from $22.76 on
    September 8, 2008 to $4.76 on September 15, 2008. On
    that date, AIG s long-term debt ratings were downgraded by
    Standard   Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill
    Companies, Inc. (S P), Moody s Investors Service
    (Moody s) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch), which triggered
    additional requirements for liquidity. These and other events
    severely limited AIG s access to debt and equity markets.

On September 22, 2008, AIG entered into an $85 billion
    revolving credit agreement (the Fed Credit Agreement) with the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the NY Fed) and, pursuant to
    the Fed Credit Agreement, AIG agreed to issue
    100,000 shares of Series C Perpetual, Convertible,
    Participating Preferred Stock (the Series C Preferred
    Stock) to a trust for the sole benefit of the United States
    Treasury (together with its trustees, the Trust). The total
    commitment under the facility created pursuant to the Fed Credit
    Agreement (the Fed Facility) was reduced to $60 billion
    effective November 25, 2008. The commitment fees and
    interest rate were reduced and the maturity was extended by
    three years.

In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG completed
    the following:

Issued $40 billion of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock;

Sold $39.3 billion face amount of residential
    mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) to Maiden Lane II LLC (ML
    II);

Terminated approximately $62.1 billion notional amount of
    CDS on super senior multi-sector collateralized debt obligations
    in connection with the Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III)
    transaction; and

Participated in the NY Fed s Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility.

See Notes 5 ,  13 and 15 for details on these
    arrangements.

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the global financial crisis
    continued, characterized by a lack of liquidity, highly volatile
    markets, a steep depreciation in asset values across many asset
    classes, an erosion of investor confidence, a large widening of
    credit spreads in some sectors, a lack of price transparency in
    many markets and the collapse of several prominent financial
    institutions.

AIG was materially and adversely affected by these conditions
    and events in a number of ways, including:

severe and continued declines in the valuation and performance
    of its investment portfolio across many asset classes, leading
    to decreased investment income, material unrealized and realized
    losses, including other

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    201 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

other-than-temporary impairments, both of which decreased
    AIG s shareholders  equity and, to a lesser extent,
    the regulatory capital of its subsidiaries;

significant credit losses due to the failure of, or governmental
    intervention with respect to, several prominent
    institutions; and

a general decline in business activity leading to reduced
    premium volume, increases in surrenders or cancellations of
    policies and increased competition from other insurers.

At December 31, 2008, amounts owed under the Fed Facility
    totaled $40.4 billion, including accrued fees and interest,
    and the remaining available amount under the Fed Facility was
    $23.2 billion.

Liquidity
    of Parent and Subsidiaries   

AIG manages liquidity at both the parent and subsidiary levels.
    Since the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG has not had access to its
    traditional sources of long-term or short-term financing through
    the public debt markets. Further, in light of AIG s current
    common stock price, AIG does not expect to be able to issue
    equity securities in the public markets in the foreseeable
    future.

Traditionally AIG depended on dividends, distributions, and
    other payments from subsidiaries to fund payments on its
    obligations. In light of AIG s current financial situation,
    many of its regulated subsidiaries are restricted from making
    dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG. Primary uses of
    cash flow are for debt service and subsidiary funding.

As a result, AIG has been dependent on the Fed Facility, CPFF
    and other transactions with the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury as its primary sources of liquidity.

Certain subsidiaries also have been dependent on the NY Fed and
    the United States Department of the Treasury to meet collateral
    posting requirements, make debt repayments as amounts came due,
    and to meet capital or liquidity requirements at the insurance
    companies (primarily in the Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services segment) and other financial services
    operations.

March
    2009 Agreements in Principle   

On March 2, 2009, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury announced agreements in principle to
    modify the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement and the
    Series D Preferred Stock and to provide a $30 billion
    equity capital commitment facility. The United States Government
    has issued the following statement referring to the agreements
    in principle and other transactions they expect to undertake
    with AIG intended to strengthen AIG s capital position,
    enhance its liquidity, reduce its borrowing costs and facilitate
    AIG s asset disposition program.

The steps announced today provide tangible evidence of the
    U.S. government s commitment to the orderly
    restructuring of AIG over time in the face of continuing market
    dislocations and economic deterioration. Orderly restructuring
    is essential to AIG s repayment of the support it has
    received from U.S. taxpayers and to preserving financial
    stability. The U.S. government is committed to continuing to
    work with AIG to maintain its ability to meet its obligations as
    they come due. 

See Note 23 herein.

Management s
    Plans for Stabilization of AIG and Repayment of AIG s
    Obligations as They Come Due   

AIG has developed certain plans (described below), some of which
    have already been implemented, to provide stability to its
    businesses and to provide for the timely repayment of the Fed
    Facility.

On October 3, 2008, AIG announced a restructuring plan
    under which AIG s Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    operations and certain other businesses would be divested in
    whole or in part. Since that time, AIG has sold certain
    businesses and assets and has entered into contracts to sell
    others. However, global market conditions have

202    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

continued to deteriorate, posing risks to AIG s ability to
    divest assets at acceptable values. As announced on
    March 2, 2009 and as described in Note 23 herein,
    AIG s restructuring plan has evolved in response to these
    market conditions. Specifically, AIG s current plans
    involve transactions between AIG and the NY Fed with respect to
    AIA and ALICO, as well as preparation for a potential sale of a
    minority stake in its property and casualty and foreign
    general insurance businesses.

AIG believes that these current plans are necessary to maximize
    the value of its businesses over a longer time frame. Therefore,
    some businesses that have previously been prepared for sale will
    be divested, some will be held for later divestiture, and some
    businesses will be prepared for potential subsequent offerings
    to the public. Dispositions of certain businesses will be
    subject to regulatory approval. Proceeds from these
    dispositions, to the extent they do not represent required
    capital of AIG s insurance company subsidiaries, are
    contractually required to be applied toward the repayment of the
    Fed Facility as mandatory repayments.

In connection with the restructuring plan, in the fourth quarter
    of 2008, AIG sold its interest in a Brazilian joint venture with
    Unibanco AIG Seguros S.A. and entered into contracts to sell AIG
    Private Bank Ltd., HSB Group, Inc., its Taiwan Finance business
    and a small German general insurance subsidiary. These
    operations had total assets and liabilities with carrying values
    of approximately $9.6 billion and $8.2 billion,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008. Aggregate proceeds from
    the sale of these businesses, after giving effect to the
    repayment of intercompany loan facilities, are expected to be
    $1.9 billion. Through February 18, 2009, AIG has also
    entered into contracts to sell its life insurance operations in
    Canada and certain Consumer Finance businesses in the
    Philippines and Thailand.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144
    requires that certain criteria be met in order for AIG to
    classify a business as held for sale. At December 31, 2008,
    the held for sale criteria in FAS 144 were not met for
    AIG s significant businesses included in the asset
    disposition plan. AIG continues to evaluate the status of its
    asset sales with respect to these criteria.

Subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including
    regulatory approvals, AIG expects those sales that are under
    contract to close during the first half of 2009. These
    operations had total assets and liabilities with carrying values
    of approximately $14.1 billion and $12.6 billion,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008. Aggregate proceeds from
    the sale of these businesses, including repayment of
    intercompany loan facilities, is expected to be
    $2.8 billion. These eight transactions are expected to
    generate $2.1 billion of net cash proceeds to repay
    outstanding borrowings on the Fed Facility, after taking
    insurance affiliate capital requirements into account.

AIG expects to divest its Institutional Asset Management
    businesses that manage third-party assets. These businesses
    offered for sale exclude those providing traditional fixed
    income and shorter duration asset and liability management for
    AIG s insurance company subsidiaries. The extraction of
    these asset management businesses will require the establishment
    of shared service arrangements between the remaining asset
    management businesses and those that are sold as well as the
    establishment of new asset management contracts, which will be
    determined in conjunction with the buyers of these businesses.
    AIGFP is engaged in a multi-step process of unwinding its
    businesses and portfolios. In connection with that process,
    certain assets have been sold, or are under contract to be sold.
    The proceeds from these sales will be used for AIGFP s
    liquidity and are not included in the amounts above. The NY Fed
    has waived the requirement under the Fed Credit Agreement that
    the proceeds of these sales be applied as a mandatory repayment
    under the Fed Facility, which would result in a permanent
    reduction of the NY Fed s commitment to lend to AIG.
    Instead, the NY Fed has given AIGFP permission to retain the
    proceeds of the completed sales, and has required that such
    proceeds be used to voluntarily repay the Fed Facility, with the
    amounts repaid available for future reborrowing subject to the
    terms of the Fed Facility. AIGFP is also opportunistically
    terminating contracts. AIGFP is entering into new derivative
    transactions only to hedge its current portfolio, reduce risk
    and hedge the currency, interest rate and other market risks
    associated with its affiliated businesses. Due to the long-term
    duration of AIGFP s derivative contracts and the complexity
    of AIGFP s portfolio, AIG expects that an orderly wind-down
    will take a substantial period of time. The cost of executing
    the wind-down will depend on many factors, many of which are not
    within AIGFP s control, including market conditions,
    AIGFP s access to markets via market counterparties, the
    availability of liquidity and the potential implications of
    further rating downgrades.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    203 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG continually evaluates overall market conditions, performance
    of businesses that are for sale, and market and business
    performance of competitors and likely bidders for the assets.
    This evaluation informs decision-making about the timing and
    process of putting businesses up for sale. Depending on market
    and business conditions, as noted above, AIG can modify its
    sales approach to maximize value for AIG and the
    U.S. taxpayers in the disposition process. Such a
    modification could result in the sale of additional or other
    assets.

AIG developed a plan to review significant projects and
    eliminated, delayed, or curtailed those that are discretionary
    or non-essential to make available internal resources to improve
    liquidity by reducing cash outflows to outside service
    providers. AIG also suspended the dividend on its common stock
    to preserve capital.

Management s
    Assessment and Conclusion   

In assessing AIG s current financial position and
    developing operating plans for the future, management has made
    significant judgments and estimates with respect to the
    potential financial and liquidity effects of AIG s risks
    and uncertainties, including but not limited to:

the commitment of the NY Fed and the United States Department of
    the Treasury to the orderly restructuring of AIG and their
    commitment to continuing to work with AIG to maintain its
    ability to meet its obligations as they come due;

the potential adverse effects on AIG s businesses that
    could result if there are further downgrades by rating agencies,
    including in particular, the uncertainty of estimates relating
    to AIGFP s derivative transactions, both the number of
    counterparties who may elect to terminate under contractual
    termination provisions and the amount that would be required to
    be paid in the event of a downgrade;

the potential delays in asset dispositions and reduction in the
    anticipated proceeds therefrom;

the potential for continued declines in bond and equity markets;

the potential effect on AIG if the capital levels of its
    regulated and unregulated subsidiaries prove inadequate to
    support current business plans;

the effect on AIG s businesses of continued compliance with
    the covenants of the Fed Credit Agreement;

the potential loss of key personnel that could then reduce the
    value of AIG s business and impair its ability to effect a
    successful asset disposition plan;

the potential that AIG may be unable to complete one or more of
    the proposed transactions with the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury described in Note 23, or that
    the transactions do not achieve their desired objectives; and

the potential regulatory actions in one or more countries,
    including possible actions resulting from the legal change in
    control as a result of the issuance of the Series C Preferred
    Stock.

Based on the U.S. government s continuing commitment, the
    agreements in principle and the other expected transactions with
    the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury,
    management s plans to stabilize AIG s businesses and
    dispose of its non-core assets, and after consideration of the
    risks and uncertainties to such plans, management believes that
    it will have adequate liquidity to finance and operate
    AIG s businesses, execute its asset disposition plan and
    repay its obligations for at least the next twelve months.

It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of
    management s plans could be materially different, or that
    one or more of management s significant judgments or
    estimates about the potential effects of these risks and
    uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect. If one or
    more of these possible outcomes is realized, AIG may need
    additional U.S. government support to meet its obligations as
    they come due.

AIG s consolidated financial statements have been prepared
    on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of
    assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course
    of business. These consolidated financial statements do not
    include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and
    classification of recorded assets nor

204    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

relating to the amounts and classification of liabilities that
    may be necessary should AIG be unable to continue as a going
    concern.

Use of
    Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting periods.

AIG considers its most critical accounting estimates to be those
    with respect to items considered by management in the
    determination of AIG s ability to continue as a going
    concern, recoverability of deferred income tax assets, reserves
    for losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits for life
    and accident and health contracts, recoverability of deferred
    policy acquisition costs (DAC), estimated gross profits for
    investment-oriented products, the allowance for finance
    receivable losses, flight equipment recoverability,
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments in the value of investments, the fair values of
    reporting units used in connection with testing for goodwill
    impairment, and the fair value measurements of certain assets
    and liabilities, including the super senior credit default swaps
    written by AIGFP. These estimates, by their nature, are based on
    judgment and current facts and circumstances. Therefore, actual
    results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near
    term, and could have a material effect on AIG s
    consolidated financial statements.

During the second half of 2007 and through 2008, disruption in
    the global credit markets, coupled with the repricing of credit
    risk, and the U.S. housing market deterioration, created
    increasingly difficult conditions in the financial markets.
    These conditions have resulted in greater volatility, less
    liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price
    transparency in certain markets and have made it more difficult
    to value certain of AIG s invested assets and the
    obligations and collateral relating to certain financial
    instruments issued or held by AIG, such as AIGFP s super
    senior credit default swap portfolio.

Certain of AIG s foreign subsidiaries included in the
    consolidated financial statements report on a fiscal year ended
    November 30. The effect on AIG s consolidated
    financial condition and results of operations of all material
    events occurring between November 30 and December 31 for all
    periods presented has been recorded. AIG determined the
    significant appreciation in world-wide fixed income and equity
    markets in December 2008 to be an intervening period event that
    had a material effect on its consolidated financial condition
    and results of operations. AIG reflected the December 2008
    market appreciation throughout its investment portfolio.
    Accordingly, AIG recorded $5.6 billion ($3.6 billion
    after tax) of unrealized appreciation on investments.

Revisions
    and Reclassifications  

During 2008, AIG began reporting interest expense and other
    expenses separately on the consolidated statement of income
    (loss). Interest expense represents interest expense on
    short-term and long-term debt, excluding interest expense
    associated with AIGFP, which is recorded in other income. Other
    expenses represent all other expenses not separately disclosed
    on the consolidated statement of income (loss). AIG previously
    reported certain assets and liabilities of its Financial
    Services subsidiaries separately on its consolidated balance
    sheet. As of December 31, 2008, AIG has reclassified the
    balances previously reported in Financial Services  
    securities available for sale to bonds available for sale and
    has reclassified the balances previously reported in Financial
    Services   trading securities to bonds and
    stocks   trading. In addition, non-AIGFP derivative
    assets and liabilities previously reported in other assets and
    other liabilities are being reported in unrealized gain or
    (loss) on swaps, options and forward transactions. All prior
    period amounts were revised to conform to the current period
    presentation for these reclassifications.

Also during 2008, AIG determined that certain accident and
    health contracts in its Foreign General Insurance reporting
    unit, which were previously accounted for as short duration
    contracts, should be treated as long duration insurance
    products. Accordingly, the December 31, 2007 consolidated
    balance sheet has been revised to reflect the reclassification
    of $763 million of deferred direct response advertising
    costs, previously reported in other assets, to

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    205 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

DAC. Additionally, $320 million has been reclassified in
    the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 from
    unearned premiums to future policy benefits for life and
    accident and health insurance contracts. These revisions did not
    have a material effect on AIG s net income (loss), or
    shareholders  equity for any period presented.

See Recent Accounting Standards   Accounting Changes
    below for a discussion of AIG s adoption of the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position (FSP) FASB
    Interpretation No. (FIN)
     39-1, 
     Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39  (FSP
     FIN 39-1), 
    which resulted in reclassifications of amounts previously
    presented on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31,
    2007.

Fixed
    Maturity Securities, Held to Maturity   Change in
    Intent  

During 2008, AIG transferred all securities previously
    classified as held to maturity to available for sale. As a
    result of the continuing disruption in the credit markets during
    2008, AIG changed its intent to hold to maturity certain
    tax-exempt municipal securities held by its insurance
    subsidiaries, which comprised substantially all of AIG s
    held to maturity securities. This change in intent resulted from
    a change in certain subsidiaries  investment strategies to
    increase their allocations to taxable securities, reflecting
    AIG s net operating loss position. As of the date the
    securities were transferred, the securities had a carrying value
    of $20.8 billion and a net unrealized loss of
    $752 million.

Accounting
    Policies  

(a)     

Revenue
    Recognition and Expenses:   

Premiums and Other Considerations:   Premiums
    for short duration contracts and considerations received from
    retailers in connection with the sale of extended service
    contracts are earned primarily on a pro rata basis over the term
    of the related coverage. The reserve for unearned premiums
    includes the portion of premiums written and other
    considerations relating to the unexpired terms of coverage.

Premiums for long duration insurance products and life
    contingent annuities are recognized as revenues when due.
    Estimates for premiums due but not yet collected are accrued.
    Consideration for universal life and investment-type products
    consists of policy charges for the cost of insurance,
    administration, and surrenders during the period. Policy charges
    collected with respect to future services are deferred and
    recognized in a manner similar to DAC related to such products.

Net Investment Income:   Net investment income
    represents income primarily from the following sources in
    AIG s insurance operations and AIG parent:

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of
    premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes in the
    timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash
    flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.

Dividend income and distributions from common and preferred
    stock and other investments when receivable.

Realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments in
    trading securities accounted for at fair value.

Earnings from hedge funds and limited partnership investments
    accounted for under the equity method.

The difference between the carrying amount of a life settlement
    contract and the life insurance proceeds of the underlying life
    insurance policy recorded in income upon the death of the
    insured.

Realized Capital Gains (Losses):   Realized
    capital gains and losses are determined by specific
    identification. The realized capital gains and losses are
    generated primarily from the following sources:

Sales of fixed maturity securities and equity securities (except
    trading securities accounted for at fair value), real estate,
    investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other
    types of investments.

206    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Reductions to the cost basis of fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities (except trading securities accounted for at
    fair value) and other invested assets for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments.

Changes in fair value of derivatives except for (1) those
    instruments at AIGFP, (2) those instruments that qualify
    for hedge accounting treatment under (FAS 133) Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,  Accounting
    for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  when the
    change in the fair value of the hedged item is not reported in
    realized gains (losses), and (3) those instruments that are
    designated as economic hedges of financial instruments for which
    the fair value option has been elected under FAS 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities  (FAS 159).

Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
    transactions.

Other Income:   Other income includes income
    from flight equipment, Asset Management operations, the
    operations of AIGFP and finance charges on consumer loans.

Income from flight equipment under operating leases is
    recognized over the life of the lease as rentals become
    receivable under the provisions of the lease or, in the case of
    leases with varying payments, under the straight-line method
    over the noncancelable term of the lease. In certain cases,
    leases provide for additional payments contingent on usage.
    Rental income is recognized at the time such usage occurs less a
    provision for future contractual aircraft maintenance. Gains and
    losses on flight equipment are recognized when flight equipment
    is sold and the risk of ownership of the equipment is passed to
    the new owner.

Income from Asset Management operations is generally recognized
    as revenues as services are performed. Certain costs incurred in
    the sale of mutual funds are deferred and subsequently amortized.

Income from the operations of AIGFP included in other income
    consists of the following:

Change in fair value relating to financial assets and
    liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected.

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of
    premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes in the
    timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash
    flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.

Dividend income and distributions from common and preferred
    stock and other investments when receivable.

Changes in the fair value of derivatives. In certain instances,
    no initial gain or loss was recognized in accordance with
    Emerging Issues Task Force Issue
     (EITF) 02-3, 
     Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
    Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
    Trading and Risk Management Activities 
     (EITF 02-3). 
    Prior to January 1, 2008, the initial gain or loss was
    recognized in income over the life of the transaction or when
    observable market data became available. Any remaining
    unamortized balances at January 1, 2008 were recognized in
    beginning retained earnings in the transition to FAS 159.

Changes in the fair value of trading securities and spot
    commodities sold but not yet purchased, futures and hybrid
    financial instruments.

Realized gains and losses from the sale of available for sale
    securities and investments in private equities, joint ventures,
    limited partnerships and other investments.

Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
    transactions.

Reductions to the cost basis of securities available for sale
    for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments.

Earnings from hedge funds and limited partnership investments
    accounted for under the equity method.

Finance charges on consumer loans are recognized as revenue
    using the interest method. Revenue ceases to be accrued when
    contractual payments are not received for four consecutive
    months for loans and retail sales contracts,

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    207 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and for six months for revolving retail accounts and private
    label receivables. Extension fees, late charges, and prepayment
    penalties are recognized as revenue when received.

Policyholder benefits and claims
    incurred:   Incurred policy losses for short
    duration insurance contracts consist of the estimated ultimate
    cost of settling claims incurred within the reporting period,
    including incurred but not reported claims, plus the changes in
    estimates of current and prior period losses resulting from the
    continuous review process. Benefits for long duration insurance
    contracts consist of benefits paid and changes in future policy
    benefits liabilities. Benefits for universal life and
    investment-type products primarily consist of interest credited
    to policy account balances and benefit payments made in excess
    of policy account balances except for certain contracts for
    which the fair value option was elected under FAS 159, for
    which benefits represent the entire change in fair value
    (including derivative gains and losses on related economic
    hedges).

Restructuring expenses and related asset impairment and other
    expenses :  Restructuring expenses include employee
    severance and related costs, costs to terminate contractual
    arrangements, consulting and other professional fees and other
    costs related to restructuring and divesture activities. Asset
    impairment includes charges associated with writing down
    long-lived assets to fair value when their carrying values are
    not recoverable from undiscounted cash flows. Other expenses
    include other costs associated with divesting of businesses and
    costs of key employee retention awards.

(b) Income Taxes:   Deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are recorded for the effects of temporary
    differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability and
    its reported amount in the consolidated financial statements.
    AIG assesses its ability to realize deferred tax assets
    considering all available evidence, including the earnings
    history, the timing, character and amount of future earnings
    potential, the reversal of taxable temporary differences, and
    the tax planning strategies available to the legal entities when
    recognizing deferred tax assets in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. (FAS) 109,  Accounting
    for Income Taxes  (FAS 109). See Note 20 herein
    for a further discussion of income taxes.

(c) Investments in Fixed Maturities and Equity
    Securities:   Bonds held to maturity are
    principally owned by insurance subsidiaries and are carried at
    amortized cost when AIG has the ability and positive intent to
    hold these securities until maturity. When AIG does not have the
    positive intent to hold bonds until maturity, these securities
    are classified as available for sale or as trading and are
    carried at fair value.

During 2008, AIG determined that it no longer had the positive
    intent to continue to hold any of its bonds until maturity. All
    positions previously classified as held to maturity were
    determined to be available for sale.

Premiums and discounts arising from the purchase of bonds
    classified as held to maturity or available for sale are treated
    as yield adjustments over their estimated lives, until maturity,
    or call date, if applicable.

Common and preferred stocks are carried at fair value.

For AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries, those securities
    for which the fair value option was not elected, are held to
    meet long-term investment objectives and are accounted for as
    available for sale, carried at fair values and recorded on a
    trade-date basis.

For AIG parent and its insurance subsidiaries, unrealized gains
    and losses on investments in trading securities are reported in
    Net investment income. Unrealized gains and losses from
    available for sale investments in equity and fixed maturity
    securities are reported as a separate component of Accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss), net of deferred income taxes,
    in consolidated shareholders  equity. Investments in fixed
    maturities and equity securities are recorded on a trade-date
    basis.

Trading securities include the investment portfolio of AIGFP and
    AIG s economic interests in Maiden Lane II LLC and
    membership interests in Maiden Lane III LLC, all of which are
    carried at fair value under FAS 159.

Trading securities for AIGFP are held to meet short-term
    investment objectives and to economically hedge other
    securities. Trading securities are recorded on a trade-date
    basis and carried at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains
    and losses are reflected in Other income.

208    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG evaluates its available for sale, equity method and cost
    method investments for impairment such that a security is
    considered a candidate for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment if it meets any of the following criteria:

Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to
    par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of
    time (nine consecutive months or longer);

The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in
    (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding
    obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from
    creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended
    for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or
    (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization
    pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims
    for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower
    than par value of their claims; or

AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment regardless
    of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events.

The determination that a security has incurred an
     other-than-temporary 
    decline in value requires the judgment of management and
    consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its
    near-term prospects and all the relevant facts and
    circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of
    a rapid and severe market valuation decline, such as that
    experienced in current credit markets, in which AIG could not
    reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary
    (severity losses).

At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its securities
    holdings with unrealized losses. When AIG does not intend to
    hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis
    based on the circumstances at the date of evaluation, AIG
    records the unrealized loss in income. If a loss is recognized
    from a sale subsequent to a balance sheet date pursuant to
    changes in circumstances, the loss is recognized in the period
    in which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer
    existed.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charge for fixed maturity securities, which is not
    intent, credit or foreign exchange related, AIG generally
    accretes into income the discount or amortizes the reduced
    premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over the
    remaining life of the security.

Certain investments in beneficial interests in securitized
    financial assets of less than high quality with contractual cash
    flows, including asset-backed securities, are subject to the
    impairment and income recognition guidance of EITF 99-20,
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests that Continued to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets  as
    amended by FSP No. EITF 99-20-1,  Amendments to the
    Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20,  which became
    effective prospectively in the fourth quarter of 2008. EITF
    99-20 requires periodic updates of AIG s best estimate of
    cash flows over the life of the security. If the fair value of
    such security is less than its cost or amortized cost and there
    has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash
    flows since the last revised estimate, considering both their
    timing and amount, an other-than-temporary impairment charge is
    recognized. Interest income is recognized based on changes in
    the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest
    cash flows reflected in the yield.

AIG also considers its intent and ability to retain a
    temporarily impaired security until recovery. Estimating future
    cash flows is a quantitative and qualitative process that
    incorporates information received from third-party sources and,
    in the case of certain structured securities, with certain
    internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future
    performance of the underlying collateral. In addition,
    projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon
    new information regarding the performance of the underlying
    collateral.

(d) Securities Lending Invested Collateral, at Fair
    Value and Securities Lending Payable:   AIG s
    insurance and asset management operations lend their securities
    and primarily take cash as collateral with respect to the
    securities lent. Invested collateral consists of
    interest-bearing cash equivalents and fixed and floating rate
    bonds, whose changes in fair value are recorded as a separate
    component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net
    of deferred income taxes. The invested collateral is evaluated
    for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment by applying the same criteria used for investments in
    fixed maturities. Income earned on invested collateral, net of
    interest payable to the collateral provider, is recorded in Net
    investment income. AIG generally obtains and maintains cash
    collateral from securities borrowers at current market levels
    for the securities lent. During the fourth

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    209 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

quarter of 2008, in connection with certain securities lending
    transactions, AIG failed to obtain or maintain collateral
    sufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing
    securities lent to various counterparties. In some cases, this
    shortfall in collateral has resulted in AIG accounting for
    individual securities lending transactions as sales combined
    with a forward purchase commitment rather than as secured
    borrowings.

The fair value of securities pledged under securities lending
    arrangements was $4 billion and $76 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

(e) Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable  
    net:   Mortgage and other loans receivable includes
    mortgage loans on real estate, policy loans and collateral,
    commercial and guaranteed loans. Mortgage loans on real estate
    and collateral, commercial and guaranteed loans are carried at
    unpaid principal balances less credit allowances and plus or
    minus adjustments for the accretion or amortization of discount
    or premium. Interest income on such loans is accrued as earned.

Impairment of mortgage and other loans receivable is based on
    certain risk factors and recognized when collection of all
    amounts due under the contractual terms is not probable. This
    impairment is generally measured based on the present value of
    expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s
    effective interest rate subject to the fair value of underlying
    collateral. Interest income on such impaired loans is recognized
    as cash is received.

Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal amount. There is no
    allowance for policy loans because these loans serve to reduce
    the death benefit paid when the death claim is made and the
    balances are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender
    value of the policy.

(f) Finance Receivables:   Finance
    receivables, which are reported net of unearned finance charges,
    are held for both investment purposes and for sale. Finance
    receivables held for investment purposes are carried at
    amortized cost, which includes accrued finance charges on
    interest bearing finance receivables, unamortized deferred
    origination costs, and unamortized net premiums and discounts on
    purchased finance receivables. The allowance for finance
    receivable losses is established through the provision for
    finance receivable losses charged to expense and is maintained
    at a level considered adequate to absorb estimated credit losses
    in the portfolio. The portfolio is periodically evaluated on a
    pooled basis and factors such as economic conditions, portfolio
    composition, and loss and delinquency experience are considered
    in the evaluation of the allowance.

Direct costs of originating finance receivables, net of
    nonrefundable points and fees, are deferred and included in the
    carrying amount of the related receivables. The amount deferred
    is amortized to income as an adjustment to finance charge
    revenues using the interest method.

Finance receivables originated and intended for sale in the
    secondary market are carried at the lower of cost or fair value,
    as determined by aggregate outstanding commitments from
    investors or current investor yield requirements. American
    General Finance, Inc. (AGF) recognizes net unrealized losses
    through a valuation allowance by charges to income.

(g) Flight Equipment:   Flight equipment is
    stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Major
    additions, modifications and interest are capitalized. Normal
    maintenance and repairs, airframe and engine overhauls and
    compliance with return conditions of flight equipment on lease
    are provided by and paid for by the lessee. Under the provisions
    of most leases for certain airframe and engine overhauls, the
    lessee is reimbursed for certain costs incurred up to but not
    exceeding contingent rentals paid to International Lease Finance
    Corporation (ILFC) by the lessee. AIG provides a charge to
    income for such reimbursements based on the expected
    reimbursements during the life of the lease. For passenger
    aircraft, depreciation is generally computed on the
    straight-line basis to a residual value of approximately
    15 percent of the cost of the asset over its estimated
    useful life of 25 years. For freighter aircraft,
    depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis to a zero
    residual value over its useful life of 35 years. At
    December 31, 2008, ILFC had 13 freighter aircraft in
    its fleet. Aircraft in the fleet are evaluated for impairment in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting No. 144,
     Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets  FAS 144. FAS 144 requires long-lived
    assets to be evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may
    not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets is measured by
    comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted
    net cash flows expected to be

210    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

generated by the asset. These evaluations for impairment are
    significantly affected by estimates of future net cash flows and
    other factors that involve uncertainty.

When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and associated
    accumulated depreciation are removed from the related accounts
    and the difference, net of proceeds, is recorded as a gain or
    loss in Other income.

Accumulated depreciation on flight equipment was
    $12.3 billion and $10.5 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

(h) Other Invested Assets:   Other invested
    assets consist primarily of investments by AIG s insurance
    operations in hedge funds, private equity and limited
    partnerships.

Hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG s
    insurance operations hold in the aggregate less than a five
    percent interest are reported at fair value. The change in fair
    value is recognized as a component of Accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). With respect to hedge funds and
    limited partnerships in which AIG holds in the aggregate a five
    percent or greater interest or less than a five percent interest
    but in which AIG has more than a minor influence over the
    operations of the investee, AIG s carrying value is its
    share of the net asset value of the funds or the partnerships.
    The changes in such net asset values, accounted for under the
    equity method, are recorded in Net investment income.

In applying the equity method of accounting, AIG consistently
    uses the most recently available financial information provided
    by the general partner or manager of each of these investments,
    which is one to three months prior to the end of AIG s
    reporting period. The financial statements of these investees
    are generally audited on an annual basis.

Other invested assets include investments entered into for
    strategic purposes and not solely for capital appreciation or
    for income generation. These investments are accounted for under
    the equity method. At December 31, 2008, AIG s
    significant investments in partially owned companies included
    its 26.0 percent interest in Tata AIG Life Insurance
    Company, Ltd., its 26.0 percent interest in Tata AIG
    General Insurance Company, Ltd. and its 39 percent interest
    in The Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Dividends
    received from unconsolidated entities in which AIG s
    ownership interest is less than 50 percent were
    $20 million, $30 million and $28 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    respectively. The undistributed earnings of unconsolidated
    entities in which AIG s ownership interest is less than
    50 percent were $227 million, $266 million and
    $300 million at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    respectively.

Also included in Other invested assets are real estate held for
    investment, aircraft asset investments held by non-Financial
    Services subsidiaries and investments in life settlement
    contracts. See Note 5(h) herein for further
    information.

(i) Securities Purchased (Sold) Under Agreements to
    Resell (Repurchase), at contract
    value:   Securities purchased under agreements to
    resell and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase for
    AIGFP are accounted for as collateralized borrowing or lending
    transactions and are recorded at their contracted resale or
    repurchase amounts, plus accrued interest. AIG s policy is
    to take possession of or obtain a security interest in
    securities purchased under agreements to resell.

AIG minimizes the credit risk that counterparties to
    transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual
    obligations by monitoring customer credit exposure and
    collateral value and generally requiring additional collateral
    to be deposited with AIG when necessary.

(j) Short-term Investments:   Short-term
    investments consist of interest-bearing cash equivalents, time
    deposits, and investments with original maturities within one
    year from the date of purchase, such as commercial paper.

(k) Cash:   Cash represents cash on hand
    and non-interest bearing demand deposits.

(l) Premiums and Insurance Balances
    Receivable:   Premiums and insurance balances
    receivable consist of premium balances, less commissions payable
    thereon, due from agents and brokers and insureds. The allowance
    for

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    211 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

doubtful accounts on premiums and insurance balances receivable
    was $578 million and $662 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

(m) Reinsurance Assets:   Reinsurance
    assets include the balances due from reinsurance and insurance
    companies under the terms of AIG s reinsurance agreements
    for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, ceded unearned
    premiums and ceded future policy benefits for life and accident
    and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid.
    Amounts related to paid and unpaid losses and benefits and loss
    expenses with respect to these reinsurance agreements are
    substantially collateralized. The allowance for doubtful
    accounts on reinsurance assets was $425 million and
    $520 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

(n) Trade Receivables and Trade
    Payables:   Trade receivables and Trade payables
    for AIGFP include option premiums paid and received and
    receivables from and payables to counterparties that relate to
    unrealized gains and losses on futures, forwards, and options
    and balances due from and due to clearing brokers and exchanges.

(o) Deferred Policy Acquisition
    Costs:   Policy acquisition costs represent those
    costs, including commissions, premium taxes and other
    underwriting expenses that vary with and are primarily related
    to the acquisition of new business.

Short-duration Insurance Contracts:   Policy
    acquisition costs are deferred and amortized over the period in
    which the related premiums written are earned. DAC is grouped
    consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are
    acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is
    reviewed for recoverability based on the profitability of the
    underlying insurance contracts. Investment income is not
    anticipated in assessing the recoverability of DAC.

Long-duration Insurance Contracts:   Policy
    acquisition costs for participating life, traditional life and
    accident and health insurance products are generally deferred
    and amortized, with interest, over the premium paying period in
    accordance with FAS 60,  Accounting and Reporting by
    Insurance Enterprises  (FAS 60). Policy acquisition
    costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life, and
    investment-type products (investment-oriented products) are
    deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the
    incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the
    estimated lives of the contracts in accordance with FAS 97,
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
    Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and
    Losses from the Sale of Investments  (FAS 97).
    Estimated gross profits are composed of net interest income, net
    realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges,
    expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains and losses. If
    estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC is
    recalculated using the new assumptions. Any resulting adjustment
    is included in income as an adjustment to DAC. DAC is grouped
    consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are
    acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is
    reviewed for recoverability based on the current and projected
    future profitability of the underlying insurance contracts.

The DAC for investment-oriented products is also adjusted with
    respect to estimated gross profits as a result of changes in the
    net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity
    securities available for sale. Because fixed maturity and equity
    securities available for sale are carried at aggregate fair
    value, an adjustment is made to DAC equal to the change in
    amortization that would have been recorded if such securities
    had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the
    proceeds reinvested at current yields. The change in this
    adjustment, net of tax, is included with the change in net
    unrealized gains/losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
    available for sale that is credited or charged directly to
    Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of
    acquisition and is reported in the consolidated balance sheet
    with DAC. This value is based on the present value of future
    pre-tax profits discounted at yields applicable at the time of
    purchase. For products accounted for under FAS 60, VOBA is
    amortized over the life of the business similar to that for DAC
    based on the assumptions at purchase. For products accounted for
    under FAS 97, VOBA is amortized in relation to the
    estimated gross profits to date for each period.

Beginning in 2008, for contracts accounted for at fair value
    under FAS 159, policy acquisition costs are expensed as
    incurred and not deferred or amortized.

212    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(p) Real Estate and Other Fixed
    Assets:   The costs of buildings and furniture and
    equipment are depreciated principally on the straight-line basis
    over their estimated useful lives (maximum of 40 years for
    buildings and ten years for furniture and equipment).
    Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to income
    as incurred; expenditures for betterments are capitalized and
    depreciated. AIG periodically assesses the carrying value of its
    real estate for purposes of determining any asset impairment.

Also included in Real Estate and Other Fixed Assets are
    capitalized software costs, which represent costs directly
    related to obtaining, developing or upgrading internal use
    software. Such costs are capitalized and amortized using the
    straight-line method over a period generally not exceeding five
    years.

Real estate, fixed assets and other long-lived assets are
    assessed for impairment in accordance with FAS 144 when
    certain impairment indicators exist.

Accumulated depreciation on real estate and other fixed assets
    was $5.8 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

(q) Unrealized Gain and Unrealized Loss on Swaps,
    Options and Forward Transactions:   Interest rate,
    currency, equity and commodity swaps (including AIGFP s
    super senior credit default swap portfolio), swaptions, options
    and forward transactions are accounted for as derivatives
    recorded on a trade-date basis, and carried at fair value.
    Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in income, when
    appropriate. In certain instances, when income is not recognized
    at inception of the contract, income is recognized over the life
    of the contract and as observable market data becomes available.
    Aggregate asset or liability positions are netted on the Balance
    Sheet to the extent permitted by qualifying master netting
    arrangements in place with each respective counterparty. Cash
    collateral posted by AIG with counterparties in conjunction with
    these transactions is reported as a reduction of the
    corresponding net derivative liability, while cash collateral
    received by AIG in conjunction with these transactions is
    reported as a reduction of the corresponding net derivative
    asset.

(r) Goodwill:   Goodwill is the excess of
    the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the
    identifiable net assets of the acquired business. Goodwill is
    tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if
    circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. During
    2008, AIG performed goodwill impairment tests at June 30,
    September 30, and December 31.

The impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which
    an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and,
    if potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is
    measured and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting
    unit level or, when all reporting units that comprise an
    operating segment have similar economic characteristics,
    impairment is tested at the operating segment level.

Management initially assesses the potential for impairment by
    estimating the fair value of each of AIG s reporting units
    or operating segments and comparing the estimated fair values
    with the carrying amounts of those reporting units, including
    allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting unit s fair
    value may be based on one or a combination of approaches
    including market-based earning multiples of the unit s peer
    companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external
    appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered
    for sale, third-party indications of fair value, if available.
    Management considers one or more of these estimates when
    determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the
    impairment test. As part of the impairment test, management
    compares the sum of the estimated fair values of AIG s
    reporting units with AIG s fully diluted common stock
    market capitalization as a basis for concluding on the
    reasonableness of the estimated reporting unit fair values.

If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its
    carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value
    of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill
    associated with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The
    amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the
    carrying value of goodwill over the estimated fair value of the
    goodwill. The estimated fair value of the goodwill is measured
    as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the
    amounts that would be assigned to the reporting unit s
    assets and liabilities in a hypothetical business combination.
    An impairment charge is recognized in income to the extent of
    the excess.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    213 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(s) Other Assets:   Other assets consists
    of a prepaid commitment fee asset related to the Fed Credit
    Agreement, prepaid expenses, including deferred advertising
    costs, sales inducement assets, deposits, other deferred
    charges, intangible assets other than goodwill and spot
    commodities held by AIGFP. The prepaid commitment fee asset
    related to the NY Fed Credit Agreement is being amortized as
    interest expense ratably over the five-year term of the
    agreement, accelerated for actual pay-downs that reduce the
    total credit available.

Certain direct response advertising costs are deferred and
    amortized over the expected future benefit period in accordance
    with
     SOP 93-7, 
     Reporting on Advertising Costs.  When AIG can
    demonstrate that its customers have responded specifically to
    direct-response advertising, the primary purpose of which is to
    elicit sales to customers, and when it can be shown such
    advertising results in probable future economic benefits, the
    advertising costs are capitalized. Deferred advertising costs
    are amortized on a cost-pool-by-cost-pool basis over the
    expected future economic benefit period and are reviewed
    regularly for recoverability. Deferred advertising costs totaled
    $640 million and $1.35 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. The amount of expense amortized
    into income was $483 million, $395 million and
    $359 million, for the years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Also during 2008, AIG determined that certain accident and
    health contracts in its Foreign General Insurance reporting
    unit, which were previously accounted for as short duration
    contracts, should be treated as long duration insurance
    products. For further discussion, see Revisions and
    Reclassifications above.

AIG offers sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting
    rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on
    certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales
    inducements provided to the contractholder are recognized as
    part of the liability for policyholders  contract deposits
    in the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are deferred and
    amortized over the life of the contract using the same
    methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. To qualify for
    such accounting treatment, the bonus interest must be explicitly
    identified in the contract at inception, and AIG must
    demonstrate that such amounts are incremental to amounts AIG
    credits on similar contracts without bonus interest, and are
    higher than the contract s expected ongoing crediting rates
    for periods after the bonus period. The deferred bonus interest
    and other deferred sales inducement assets totaled
    $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. The amortization expense associated
    with these assets is reported within Policyholder benefits and
    claims incurred in the consolidated statement of income. Such
    amortization expense totaled $56 million, $149 million
    and $132 million for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Spot commodities held in AIGFP s wholly owned broker-dealer
    subsidiary are recorded at fair value. All other commodities are
    recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Spot commodities
    are recorded on a trade-date basis. The exposure to market risk
    may be reduced through the use of forwards, futures and option
    contracts. Lower of cost or fair value reductions in commodity
    positions and unrealized gains and losses in related derivatives
    are reflected in Other income.

See Note 10 herein for a discussion of derivatives.

(t) Separate Accounts:   Separate accounts
    represent funds for which investment income and investment gains
    and losses accrue directly to the policyholders who bear the
    investment risk. Each account has specific investment
    objectives, and the assets are carried at fair value. The assets
    of each account are legally segregated and are not subject to
    claims that arise out of any other business of AIG. The
    liabilities for these accounts are equal to the account assets.

(u) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
    expense:   Claims and claims adjustment expenses
    are charged to income as incurred. The liability for unpaid
    claims and claims adjustment expense represents the accumulation
    of estimates for unpaid reported losses and includes provisions
    for losses incurred but not reported. The methods of determining
    such estimates and establishing resulting reserves, including
    amounts relating to allowances for estimated unrecoverable
    reinsurance, are reviewed and updated. If the estimate of
    reserves is determined to be inadequate or redundant, the
    increase or decrease is reflected in income. AIG discounts its
    loss reserves relating to workers  compensation business
    written by its U.S. domiciled subsidiaries as permitted by
    the domiciliary statutory regulatory authorities.

214    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(v) Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and
    Health Contracts and Policyholder Contract
    Deposits:   The liability for future policy
    benefits and policyholder contract deposits are established
    using assumptions described in Note 11 herein. Future
    policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance
    contracts include provisions for future dividends to
    participating policyholders, accrued in accordance with all
    applicable regulatory or contractual provisions. Policyholder
    contract deposits include AIG s liability for
    (a) certain guarantee benefits accounted for as embedded
    derivatives at fair value in accordance with FAS 133 and
    (b) certain contracts that AIG has elected to account for
    at fair value beginning in 2008 in accordance with FAS 159.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional FAS 159 disclosures.

(w) Other Policyholder Funds:   Other
    policyholder funds are reported at cost and include any
    policyholders  funds on deposit that encompass premium
    deposits and similar items.

(x) Securities and Spot Commodities Sold but not yet
    Purchased, at Fair Value:   Securities and spot
    commodities sold but not yet purchased represent sales of
    securities and spot commodities not owned at the time of sale.
    The obligations arising from such transactions are recorded on a
    trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Also included are
    obligations under gold leases, which are accounted for as a debt
    host with an embedded gold derivative. Beginning January 1,
    2008, AIGFP elected the fair value option for these debt host
    contracts.

(y) Commercial Paper and Extendible Commercial Notes and
    Long-Term Debt:   AIG s funding consists, in
    part, of medium and long-term debt and commercial paper.
    Commercial paper, when issued at a discount, is recorded at the
    proceeds received and accreted to its par value. Extendible
    commercial notes were issued by AGF with initial maturities of
    up to 90 days, but were extended by AGF in mid-September
    2008 to 390 days. Long-term debt is carried at the
    principal amount borrowed, net of unamortized discounts or
    premiums. See Note 13 herein for additional information.
    Long-term debt also includes liabilities connected to trust
    preferred stock principally related to outstanding securities
    issued by AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. (AIGLH), a wholly owned
    subsidiary of AIG. Cash distributions on such preferred stock
    are accounted for as interest expense.

(z) Fed Facility and Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility:   In 2008, AIG obtained funding under the
    Fed Facility and the NY Fed s Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility (the CPFF). Amounts borrowed under the Fed Facility and
    the CPFF are carried at the principal amount borrowed, and in
    the case of the Fed Facility, also include accrued compounding
    interest and fees.

(aa) Other Liabilities:   Other liabilities
    consist of other funds on deposit, and other payables. AIG has
    entered into certain insurance and reinsurance contracts,
    primarily in its General Insurance segment, that do not contain
    sufficient insurance risk to be accounted for as insurance or
    reinsurance. Accordingly, the premiums received on such
    contracts, after deduction for certain related expenses, are
    recorded as deposits within Other liabilities in the
    consolidated balance sheet. Net proceeds of these deposits are
    invested and generate net investment income. As amounts are
    paid, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit
    liability is reduced.

(bb) Minority Interest:   Minority interest
    liability includes the equity interest of outside shareholders
    in AIG s consolidated subsidiaries and the preferred
    shareholders  equity in subsidiary companies relating to
    outstanding preferred stock or interest of ILFC, a wholly owned
    subsidiary of AIG. Cash distributions on such preferred stock or
    interest are accounted for as interest expense.

At December 31, 2008, the preferred stock consisted of
    1,000 shares of market auction preferred stock (MAPS) in
    two series (Series A and B) of 500 shares each.
    Each of the MAPS shares has a liquidation value of $100,000 per
    share and is not convertible. The dividend rate, other than the
    initial rate, for each dividend period for each series is reset
    approximately every seven weeks (49 days) on the basis of
    orders placed in an auction. During 2006, ILFC extended each of
    the MAPS dividend periods for three years. At December 31,
    2008, the dividend rate for Series A MAPS was
    4.70 percent and the dividend rate for Series B MAPS
    was 5.59 percent.

(cc) Contingent Liabilities:   Amounts are
    accrued for the resolution of claims that have either been
    asserted or are deemed probable of assertion if, in the opinion
    of management, it is both probable that a liability has been
    incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
    estimated. In many cases, it is not possible to determine

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    215 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the
    ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until years after
    the contingency arises, in which case, no accrual is made until
    that time.

(dd) Foreign Currency:   Financial
    statement accounts expressed in foreign currencies are
    translated into U.S. dollars in accordance with
    FAS 52,  Foreign Currency Translation 
    (FAS 52). Under FAS 52, functional currency assets and
    liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars generally
    using rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date of
    each respective subsidiary and the related translation
    adjustments are recorded as a separate component of Accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related taxes, in
    consolidated shareholders  equity. Functional currencies
    are generally the currencies of the local operating environment.
    Income statement accounts expressed in functional currencies are
    translated using average exchange rates during the period. The
    adjustments resulting from translation of financial statements
    of foreign entities operating in highly inflationary economies
    are recorded in income. Exchange gains and losses resulting from
    foreign currency transactions are recorded in income.

(ee) Earnings (Loss) per Share:   Basic
    earnings or loss per share and diluted loss per share are based
    on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding,
    adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits.
    Diluted earnings per share is based on those shares used in
    basic earnings per share plus shares that would have been
    outstanding assuming issuance of common shares for all dilutive
    potential common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all
    stock dividends and stock splits.

(ff) Recent Accounting Standards: 

Accounting
    Changes  

AIG adopted the following accounting standards during 2006:

FAS 155   

In February, 2006, the FASB issued FAS 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
    Instruments   an amendment of FAS 140 and
    FAS 133  (FAS 155). FAS 155 allows AIG to
    include changes in fair value in earnings on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an
    embedded derivative that would otherwise be required to be
    bifurcated and accounted for separately under FAS 133. The
    election to measure the hybrid instrument at fair value is
    irrevocable at the acquisition or issuance date.

AIG elected to early adopt FAS 155 as of January 1,
    2006, and apply FAS 155 fair value measurement to certain
    structured note liabilities and structured investments in
    AIG s available for sale portfolio that existed at
    December 31, 2005. The effect of this adoption resulted in
    an $11 million after-tax ($18 million pre-tax)
    decrease to opening retained earnings as of January 1,
    2006, representing the difference between the fair value of
    these hybrid financial instruments and the prior carrying value
    as of December 31, 2005. The effect of adoption on
    after-tax gross gains and losses was $218 million
    ($336 million pre-tax) and $229 million
    ($354 million pre-tax), respectively.

In connection with AIG s early adoption of FAS 155,
    structured note liabilities of $8.9 billion, other
    structured liabilities in conjunction with equity derivative
    transactions of $111 million, and hybrid financial
    instruments of $522 million at December 31, 2006 are
    now carried at fair value. The effect on earnings for 2006, for
    changes in the fair value of hybrid financial instruments, was a
    pre-tax loss of $313 million, of which $287 million
    was reflected in Other income and was largely offset by gains on
    economic hedge positions which were also reflected in operating
    income, and $26 million was reflected in Net investment
    income.

FAS 158   

In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R  (FAS 158).
    FAS 158 requires AIG to prospectively recognize the
    overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit
    postretirement plans as an asset or liability in AIG s
    consolidated balance sheet and to recognize changes in that
    funded status in the year in which the changes occur through
    Other comprehensive income. FAS 158 also requires AIG to
    measure the

216    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

funded status of plans as of the date of its year-end balance
    sheet, with limited exceptions. AIG adopted FAS 158 for the
    year ended December 31, 2006. The cumulative effect, net of
    deferred income taxes, on AIG s consolidated balance sheet
    at December 31, 2006 was a net reduction in
    shareholders  equity through a charge to Accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) of $532 million, with a
    corresponding net decrease of $538 million in total assets,
    and a net decrease of $6 million in total liabilities. See
    Note 18 herein for additional information on the adoption
    of FAS 158.

AIG adopted the following accounting standards during 2007:

SOP 05-1    

In September 2005, the AICPA issued
     SOP 05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred
    Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges
    of Insurance Contracts 
     (SOP 05-1). 
     SOP 05-1 
    provides guidance on accounting for internal replacements of
    insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically
    described in FAS 97.
     SOP 05-1 
    defines an internal replacement as a modification in product
    benefits, features, rights, or coverage that occurs by the
    exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment,
    endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the election of a
    feature or coverage within a contract. Internal replacements
    that result in a substantially changed contract are accounted
    for as a termination and a replacement contract.

SOP 05-1 
    became effective on January 1, 2007 and generally affects
    the accounting for internal replacements occurring after that
    date. In the first quarter of 2007, AIG recorded a cumulative
    effect reduction of $82 million, net of tax, to the opening
    balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption. This
    adoption reflected changes in unamortized DAC, VOBA, deferred
    sales inducement assets, unearned revenue liabilities and future
    policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance
    contracts resulting from a shorter expected life related to
    certain group life and health insurance contracts and the effect
    on the gross profits of investment-oriented products related to
    previously anticipated future internal replacements. This
    cumulative effect adjustment affected only the Life
    Insurance   Retirement Services segment.

FIN 48   

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
    (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in
    income tax positions. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
    threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of an income tax position taken or
    expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides
    guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
    penalties, accounting in interim periods, and additional
    disclosures. AIG adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007.
    Upon adoption, AIG recognized a $71 million increase in the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for
    as a decrease to opening retained earnings as of January 1,
    2007. See Note 21 for additional FIN 48 disclosures.

FSP
     13-2    

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. (FSP)
     FAS 13-2, 
     Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing
    of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged
    Lease Transaction 
     (FSP 13-2). 
     FSP 13-2 
    addresses how a change or projected change in the timing of cash
    flows relating to income taxes generated by a leveraged lease
    transaction affects the accounting for the lease by the lessor,
    and directs that the tax assumptions be consistent with any
    FIN 48 uncertain tax position related to the lease. AIG
    adopted
     FSP 13-2 
    on January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, AIG recorded a
    $50 million decrease in the opening balance of retained
    earnings, net of tax, to reflect the cumulative effect of this
    change in accounting.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    217 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG adopted the following accounting standards during 2008:

FAS 157   

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements  (FAS 157). FAS 157 defines fair
    value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and
    expands disclosure requirements regarding fair value
    measurements but does not change existing guidance about whether
    an asset or liability is carried at fair value. FAS 157
    nullifies the guidance in
     EITF 02-3 
    that precluded the recognition of a trading profit at the
    inception of a derivative contract unless the fair value of such
    contract was obtained from a quoted market price or other
    valuation technique incorporating observable market data.
    FAS 157 also clarifies that an issuer s credit
    standing should be considered when measuring liabilities at fair
    value. The fair value measurement and related disclosure
    guidance in FAS 157 do not apply to fair value measurements
    associated with AIG s share-based employee compensation
    awards accounted for in accordance with FAS 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment. 

AIG adopted FAS 157 on January 1, 2008, its required
    effective date. FAS 157 must be applied prospectively,
    except for certain stand-alone derivatives and hybrid
    instruments initially measured using the guidance in
     EITF 02-3, 
    which must be applied as a cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle to retained earnings at January 1,
    2008. The cumulative effect, net of taxes, of adopting
    FAS 157 on AIG s consolidated balance sheet was an
    increase in retained earnings of $4 million.

The most significant effect of adopting FAS 157 on
    AIG s consolidated results of operations for 2008 related
    to changes in fair value methodologies with respect to both
    liabilities already carried at fair value, primarily hybrid
    notes and derivatives, and newly elected liabilities measured at
    fair value (see FAS 159 discussion below). Specifically,
    the incorporation of AIG s own credit spreads and the
    incorporation of explicit risk margins (embedded policy
    derivatives at transition only) resulted in a increase in
    pre-tax loss of $1.8 billion ($1.2 billion after tax)
    for 2008. The effects of the changes in AIG s own credit
    spreads on pre-tax income for AIGFP was an increase of
    $1.4 billion for 2008. The effect of the changes in
    counterparty credit spreads for assets measured at fair value at
    AIGFP was a decrease in pre-tax income of $10.7 billion for
    2008.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional FAS 157 disclosures.

FAS 159   

In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS 159,  The Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities  (FAS 159). FAS 159 permits entities
    to choose to measure at fair value many financial instruments
    and certain other items that are not required to be measured at
    fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value for designated
    items are required to be reported in income. FAS 159 also
    establishes presentation and disclosure requirements for similar
    types of assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
    FAS 159 permits the fair value option election on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis for eligible items existing at the adoption date and at
    initial recognition of an asset or liability, or upon most
    events that give rise to a new basis of accounting for that
    instrument.

AIG adopted FAS 159 on January 1, 2008, its required
    effective date. The adoption of FAS 159 with respect to
    elections made in the Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services segment resulted in an after-tax decrease to 2008
    opening retained earnings of $559 million. The adoption of
    FAS 159 with respect to elections made by AIGFP resulted in
    an after-tax decrease to 2008 opening retained earnings of
    $448 million. Included in this amount are net unrealized
    gains of $105 million that were reclassified to retained
    earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    related to available for sale securities recorded in the
    consolidated balance sheet at January 1, 2008 for which the
    fair value option was elected.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional FAS 159 disclosures.

218    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

FAS 157
    and FAS 159   

The following table summarizes the after-tax increase
    (decrease) from adopting FAS 157 and FAS 159 on the
    opening shareholders  equity accounts: 

FSP
     FIN 39-1    

In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP
     FIN 39-1, 
    which modifies FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 39,
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts, 
    and permits companies to offset cash collateral receivables or
    payables against derivative instruments under certain
    circumstances. AIG adopted the provisions of FSP
     FIN 39-1 
    effective January 1, 2008, which requires retrospective
    application to all prior periods presented. At December 31,
    2008, the amounts of cash collateral received and posted that
    were offset against net derivative positions totaled
    $7.1 billion and $19.2 billion, respectively. The cash
    collateral received and paid related to AIGFP derivative
    instruments was previously recorded in both trade payables and
    trade receivables. Cash collateral received related to non-AIGFP
    derivative instruments was previously recorded in other
    liabilities. Accordingly, the derivative assets and liabilities
    at December 31, 2007 have been reduced by $6.3 billion
    and $5.8 billion, respectively, related to the netting of
    cash collateral.

FSP
     FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4    

In September 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4, 
     Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain
    Guarantees: An amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB
    Interpretation No. 45    (FSP). The FSP amends
    FAS 133 to require additional disclosures by sellers of
    credit derivatives, including derivatives embedded in a hybrid
    instrument. The FSP also amends FIN No. 45,
     Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirement for
    Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
    Others  ,  to require an additional disclosure about
    the current status of the payment/performance risk of a
    guarantee. The additional disclosures are included in
    Note 10 herein.

FSP
     FAS 157-3    

In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active  (FSP
     FAS 157-3). 
    FSP
     FAS 157-3 
    provides guidance clarifying certain aspects of FAS 157
    with respect to the fair value measurements of a security when
    the market for that security is inactive. AIG adopted this
    guidance in the third quarter of 2008. The effects of adopting
    FSP
     FAS 157-3 
    on AIG s consolidated financial condition and results of
    operations were not material.

FSP
     FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8   

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8.  Disclosures by Public Entities
    (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests
    in Variable Interest Entities  (FSP). The FSP amends and
    expands the disclosure requirements regarding transfers of
    financial assets and a company s involvement with variable
    interest entities. The FSP is effective for interim and annual
    periods ending after December 15, 2008. Adoption of the FSP
    did not affect AIG s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flow, as only additional disclosures were
    required. The additional disclosures are included in Note 9
    herein.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    219 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

FSP
    EITF
     99-20-1    

In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP
     EITF 99-20-1, 
     Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue
     No. 99-20  
    (FSP
     EITF 99-20-1). 
    FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 
    amends the impairment guidance in EITF Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets, 
    to achieve more consistent determination of whether an
    other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. The FSP also
    retains and emphasizes the objective of an other-than-temporary
    impairment assessment and the related disclosure requirements in
    FASB Statement No. 115,  Accounting for Certain
    Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  and other
    related guidance. AIG adopted this guidance in the fourth
    quarter of 2008. The effects of adopting FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 
    on AIG s consolidated financial condition and results of
    operations were not material.

Future
    Application of Accounting Standards  

FAS 141(R)   

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141 (revised 2007),
     Business Combinations  (FAS 141(R)).
    FAS 141(R) changes the accounting for business combinations
    in a number of ways, including broadening the transactions or
    events that are considered business combinations; requiring an
    acquirer to recognize 100 percent of the fair value of
    assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling (i.e.,
    minority) interests; recognizing contingent consideration
    arrangements at their acquisition-date fair values with
    subsequent changes in fair value generally reflected in income;
    and recognizing preacquisition loss and gain contingencies at
    their acquisition-date fair values, among other changes.

AIG adopted FAS 141(R) for business combinations for which
    the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009.
    AIG s adoption of this guidance does not have a material
    effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or
    results of operations, but may have an effect on the accounting
    for future business combinations, if any, as well as the
    assessment of goodwill impairments in the future.

FAS 160   

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51 
    (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires noncontrolling (i.e.,
    minority) interests in partially owned consolidated subsidiaries
    to be classified in the consolidated balance sheet as a separate
    component of consolidated shareholders  equity, or in the
    mezzanine section of the balance sheet (between liabilities and
    equity), to the extent such interests do not qualify as
     permanent equity  in accordance with EITF
     Topic D-98, 
     Classification and Measurement of Redeemable
    Securities  (revised September 2008). FAS 160 also
    establishes accounting rules for subsequent acquisitions and
    sales of noncontrolling interests and provides for how
    noncontrolling interests should be presented in the consolidated
    statement of income. The noncontrolling interests  share of
    subsidiary income should be reported as a part of consolidated
    net income with disclosure of the attribution of consolidated
    net income to the controlling and noncontrolling interests on
    the face of the consolidated statement of income.

AIG adopted FAS 160 on January 1, 2009, its required
    effective date. FAS 160 must be adopted prospectively,
    except that consolidated net income would be recast to include
    net income attributable to both the controlling and
    noncontrolling interests retrospectively and minority interest
    balance sheet reclassifications are to be made retrospectively,
    as discussed below. Effective with AIG s first quarter 2009
     Form 10-Q, 
    AIG will retrospectively reclassify a portion of the minority
    interest liability of $10.0 billion at December 31,
    2008 (and prior periods) to a separate component of shareholders
    equity, titled Non-controlling interest, to the extent it
    qualifies to be reported in shareholders  equity. The
    remaining portion will be reclassified to the mezzanine section
    of the balance sheet.

FAS 161   

In March 2008, the FASB issued FAS 161,  Disclosures
    about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  
    an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 
    (FAS 161). FAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about
    (a) how and why AIG uses derivative instruments,
    (b) how derivative instruments and related hedged items

220    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

are accounted for under FAS No. 133 and its related
    interpretations, and (c) how derivative instruments and
    related hedged items affect AIG s consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows. FAS 161
    is effective for AIG beginning with financial statements issued
    in the first quarter of 2009. Because FAS 161 only requires
    additional disclosures about derivatives, it will have no effect
    on AIG s consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

FAS 162   

In May 2008, the FASB issued FAS 162,  The Hierarchy
    of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
    (FAS 162). FAS 162 identifies the sources of
    accounting principles and the framework for selecting the
    principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements
    presented in conformity with GAAP but does not change current
    practices. FAS 162 will become effective on the
    60th day following Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    amendments to remove GAAP hierarchy from the auditing standards.
    FAS 162 will have no effect on AIG s consolidated
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

FSP
     FAS 140-3    

In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and
    Repurchase Financing Transactions  (FSP
     FAS 140-3). 
    FSP
     FAS 140-3 
    requires an initial transfer of a financial asset and a
    repurchase financing that was entered into contemporaneously
    with or in contemplation of the initial transfer to be evaluated
    as a linked transaction unless certain criteria are met. FSP
     FAS 140-3 
    is effective for AIG beginning January 1, 2009 and will be
    applied to new transactions entered into from that date forward.
    Early adoption is prohibited. AIG is currently assessing the
    effect that adopting FSP
     FAS 140-3 
    will have on its consolidated financial statements but does not
    believe the effect will be material.

FSP
    FAS 132(R)-1   

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,
     Employer s Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit
    Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1). FSP FAS 132(R)-1
    amends FAS 132(R) to require more detailed disclosures
    about an employer s plan assets, including the
    employer s investment strategies, major categories of plan
    assets, concentrations of risk within plan assets, and valuation
    techniques used to measure the fair values of plan assets. FSP
    FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for fiscal years ending after
    December 15, 2009.

EITF
     07-5    

In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
    Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) on Issue
     No. 07-5, 
     Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock . Following the
    January 1, 2009 adoption date, instruments that are not
    indexed to the issuer s stock would not qualify for an
    exception from derivative accounting provided in FAS 133
    (which requires that an instrument is both indexed to the
    issuer s own stock, and that it is classified in equity).
    AIG is assessing the effect that adopting
     EITF 07-5 
    will have on its consolidated financial statements, but does not
    believe the effect will be material.

2.    

Restructuring  

As described in Note 1 herein, AIG commenced an
    organization-wide restructuring plan under which some of its
    businesses will be divested, some will be held for later
    divestiture, and some businesses will be prepared for potential
    subsequent offerings to the public.

Successful execution of the restructuring plan involves
    significant separation activities. Accordingly, AIG established
    retention programs for its key employees to maintain ongoing
    business operations and to facilitate the successful execution
    of the restructuring plan. Additionally, given the market
    disruption in the first quarter of 2008, AIGFP established a
    retention plan for its employees to manage and unwind its
    complex businesses. Other major activities include the
    separation of shared services, infrastructure and assets among
    business units and corporate functions.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    221 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2008, AIG cannot determine the expected
    date of completion or reliably estimate the total aggregate
    expenses expected to be incurred for all AIG s
    restructuring and separation activities. This is due to the
    significant scale of the restructuring plan, the fact that
    restructuring costs will vary depending on the identity of the
    ultimate purchasers of the divested entities, as well as the
    extended period over which the restructuring is expected to
    occur. For those activities that can be reasonably estimated,
    the total restructuring and separation expenses expected to be
    incurred is $1.9 billion at December 31, 2008.

Restructuring expenses and related asset impairment and other
    expenses, for the year ended December 31, 2008, by
    operating segment consisted of the following: 

*   

Includes cumulative amounts incurred and additional future
    amounts to be incurred that can be reasonably estimated at the
    balance sheet date.  

The initial restructuring liability and the corresponding
    movement from inception, for the year ended December 31,
    2008, are summarized as follows: 

(a)   

Restructuring expenses include $44 million of retention
    awards and Total amount expected to be incurred includes
    $57 million for retention awards for employees expected to
    be terminated.  

(b)   

Primarily includes consulting and other professional fees
    related to (i) asset disposition activities,
    (ii) AIG s debt and capital restructuring program with
    the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury and
    (iii) unwinding most of AIGFP s businesses and
    portfolios.  

(c)   

Restructuring expenses include $448 million of retention
    awards and Total amount expected to be incurred includes
    $1.0 billion for key employee retention awards announced
    during 2008.  

(d)   

Includes cumulative amounts incurred and additional future
    amounts to be incurred that can be reasonably estimated at the
    balance sheet date.  

222    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

3.    

Segment
    Information  

AIG identifies its operating segments by product line consistent
    with its management structure and evaluates their performance
    based on operating income (loss) before taxes. These segments
    and their respective operations are as follows:

General Insurance:   AIG s General
    Insurance subsidiaries write substantially all lines of
    commercial property and casualty insurance and various personal
    lines both domestically and abroad. Revenues in the General
    Insurance segment represent General Insurance net Premiums and
    other considerations earned, Net investment income and Net
    realized capital gains (losses). AIG s principal General
    Insurance operations are as follows:

Commercial Insurance writes substantially all classes of
    business insurance in the U.S. and Canada, accepting such
    business mainly from insurance brokers.

Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic) subsidiaries offer
    reinsurance on both a treaty and facultative basis to insurers
    in the U.S. and abroad. Transatlantic structures programs
    for a full range of property and casualty products with an
    emphasis on specialty risks.

AIG s Personal Lines operations provide automobile
    insurance through 21st.com and the Agency Auto Division, as well
    as a broad range of coverages for high net worth individuals
    through the AIG Private Client Group.

Mortgage Guaranty operations provide residential mortgage
    guaranty insurance that covers the first loss for credit
    defaults on high
     loan-to-value 
    conventional first- and second-lien mortgages for the purchase
    or refinance of one to four family residences. Effective
    September 30, 2008 Mortgage Guaranty ceased insuring new
    second-lien mortgages.

AIG s Foreign General Insurance group accepts risks
    primarily underwritten through a network of branches and foreign
    based insurance subsidiaries. The Foreign General Insurance
    group uses various marketing methods to write both business and
    consumer lines insurance with certain refinements for local
    laws, customs and needs. AIU operates in Asia, the Pacific Rim,
    Europe, including the United Kingdom, Africa, the Middle East
    and Latin America.

Each of the General Insurance
     sub-segments 
    is comprised of groupings of major products and services as
    follows: Commercial Insurance is comprised of domestic
    commercial insurance products and services; Transatlantic is
    comprised of reinsurance products and services sold to other
    general insurance companies; Personal Lines is comprised of
    general insurance products and services sold to individuals;
    Mortgage Guaranty is comprised of products insuring against
    losses arising under certain loan agreements; and Foreign
    General is comprised of general insurance products sold overseas.

Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services:   AIG s Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services subsidiaries offer a wide range of insurance
    and retirement savings products both domestically and abroad.
    Insurance-oriented products consist of individual and group
    life, payout annuities (including structured settlements),
    endowment and accident and health policies. Retirement savings
    products consist generally of fixed and variable annuities.
    Revenues in the Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    segment represent Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    Premiums and other considerations, Net investment income and Net
    realized capital gains (losses).

AIG s principal Foreign Life Insurance  
    Retirement Services operations are American Life Insurance
    Company (ALICO), American International Assurance Company,
    Limited, together with American International Assurance Company
    (Bermuda) Limited (AIA), Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd.
    (Nan Shan), The Philippine American Life and General Insurance
    Company (Philamlife), AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG
    Edison Life) and AIG Star Life Insurance Co. Ltd. (AIG Star
    Life).

AIG s principal Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic
    Retirement Services operations are American General Life
    Insurance Company (AG Life), The United States Life Insurance
    Company in the City of New York (USLIFE), American General Life
    and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA and, collectively with AG
    Life and USLIFE, the Domestic Life Insurance internal reporting
    unit), AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity), The Variable

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    223 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) and AIG Retirement
    Services, Inc (AIG SunAmerica and, collectively with AIG Annuity
    and VALIC, the Domestic Retirement Services internal reporting
    unit).

American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO) acts
    primarily as an internal reinsurance company for AIG s
    insurance operations.

Life Insurance   Retirement Services is comprised of
    two major groupings of products and services: insurance-oriented
    products and services and retirement savings products and
    services.

Financial Services:   AIG s Financial
    Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including
    aircraft leasing, capital markets, consumer finance and
    insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft Leasing,
    Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations generate the
    majority of the revenues produced by the Financial Services
    operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial Services
    income principally by providing insurance premium financing for
    both AIG s policyholders and those of other insurers.

AIG s Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations
    of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new
    and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic
    airlines. Revenues also result from the remarketing of
    commercial jet aircraft for ILFC s own account, and
    remarketing and fleet management services for airlines and
    financial institutions.

Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which
    engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial
    transactions, including standard and customized financial
    products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy,
    equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invests in a diversified
    portfolio of securities and principal investments and engages in
    borrowing activities that involve issuing standard and
    structured notes and other securities and entering into GIAs.
    Given the extreme market conditions experienced in 2008,
    downgrades of AIG s credit ratings by the rating agencies,
    as well as AIG s intent to refocus on its core businesses,
    AIGFP has begun to unwind its businesses and portfolios
    including those associated with credit protection written
    through credit default swaps on super senior risk tranches of
    diversified pools of loans and debt securities.

Historically, AIG s Capital Markets operations derived a
    significant portion of their revenues from hedged financial
    positions entered into in connection with counterparty
    transactions. AIGFP has also participated as a dealer in a wide
    variety of financial derivatives transactions. Revenues and
    operating income of the Capital Markets operations and the
    percentage change in these amounts for any given period are
    significantly affected by changes in the fair value of
    AIGFP s assets and liabilities and by the number, size and
    profitability of transactions entered into during that period
    relative to those entered into during the comparative period.

AIG s Consumer Finance operations in North America are
    principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its
    revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans,
    secured and unsecured non-real estate loans and retail sales
    finance receivables. During 2008, AGF ceased its wholesale
    originations (originations through mortgage brokers).

AIG s foreign consumer finance operations are principally
    conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging
    and developing markets. AIGCFG has operations in Argentina,
    China, Brazil, Hong Kong, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland,
    Taiwan, Thailand, India and Colombia.

Asset Management:   AIG s Asset Management
    operations comprise a wide variety of investment-related
    services and investment products. Such services and products are
    offered to individuals, pension funds and institutions globally
    through AIG s Spread-Based Investment business,
    Institutional Asset Management, and Brokerage Services and
    Mutual Funds business. Revenues in the Asset Management segment
    represent investment income with respect to spread-based
    products and management, advisory and incentive fees.

Other Operations:   AIG s Other operations
    include interest expense, restructuring costs, expenses of
    corporate staff not attributable to specific business segments,
    expenses related to efforts to improve internal controls,
    corporate initiatives, certain compensation plan expenses and
    the settlement costs more fully described in Note 14(a) to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

224    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s operations by operating segment were as
    follows: 

*    

To better align financial
    reporting with the manner in which AIG s chief operating
    decision maker manages the business, AIG s own credit risk
    valuation adjustments on intercompany transactions, the
    recognition of which began in 2008, are excluded from segment
    revenues and operating income. In addition, goodwill impairment
    charges totaling $1.1 billion that were recorded on AIG
    Parent s books have been included herein for segment
    reporting purposes.   

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    225 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s General Insurance operations by major internal
    reporting unit were as follows: 

226    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    operations by major internal reporting unit were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    227 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s Financial Services operations by major internal
    reporting unit were as follows: 

*   

Includes $1.4 billion of intercompany interest expense
    and $803 million of increase to fair value which are
    eliminated in AIG s consolidation.  

228    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s
    Asset Management operations consist of a single internal
    reporting unit.  

AIG s operations by major geographic segment were as
    follows: 

(a)   

Including revenues from insurance operations in Canada of
    $1.4 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenues are generally
    recorded based on the geographic location of the reporting
    unit.  

(b)   

ILFC derives more than 90 percent of its revenue from
    foreign-operated airlines.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    229 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

4.    

Fair
    Value Measurements  

Effective January 1, 2008, AIG adopted FAS 157 and
    FAS 159, which specify measurement and disclosure standards
    related to assets and liabilities measured at fair value. See
    Note 1 herein for additional information.

The most significant effect of adopting FAS 157 on
    AIG s results of operations for 2008 related to changes in
    fair value methodologies with respect to both liabilities
    already carried at fair value, primarily hybrid notes and
    derivatives, and newly elected liabilities measured at fair
    value (see FAS 159 discussion below). Specifically, the
    incorporation of AIG s own credit spreads and the
    incorporation of explicit risk margins (embedded policy
    derivatives at transition only) to reflect the risk of
    AIG s non-performance resulted in an increase of
    $1.8 billion to pre-tax income ($1.2 billion after
    tax) for 2008, as follows:

Net Pre-Tax 

Increase (Decrease) 

Twelve Months Ended 

Liabilities Carried 

December 31, 2008 

at Fair Value 

Business Segment Affected 

(In millions) 

Income statement caption:

Net realized capital losses

$

542

Freestanding 
    derivatives

All segments   excluding AIGFP

(155

)

Embedded policy derivatives

Life Insurance   Retirement Services

Unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP super senior credit
    default swap portfolio

185

Super senior credit default swap portfolio

AIGFP

Other income

1,209

Notes, GIAs, derivatives, other liabilities

AIGFP

Net pre-tax increase

$

1,781

Liabilities already carried at fair value

$

1,697

Newly elected liabilities measured at fair value (FAS 159
    elected)

84

Net pre-tax increase

$

1,781

Fair
    Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis  

AIG measures at fair value on a recurring basis financial
    instruments in its trading and available for sale securities
    portfolios, certain mortgage and other loans receivable, certain
    spot commodities, derivative assets and liabilities, securities
    purchased (sold) under agreements to resell (repurchase),
    securities lending invested collateral, non-traded equity
    investments and certain private limited partnerships and certain
    hedge funds included in other invested assets, certain
    short-term investments, separate and variable account assets,
    certain policyholder contract deposits, securities and spot
    commodities sold but not yet purchased, certain trust deposits
    and deposits due to banks and other depositors, certain
    long-term debt, and certain hybrid financial instruments
    included in other liabilities. The fair value of a financial
    instrument is the amount that would be received on sale of an
    asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
    between market participants at the measurement date.

The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of
    financial instruments generally correlates with the level of
    pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices
    in active markets generally have more pricing observability and
    less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely,
    financial instruments traded in
     other-than-active 
    markets or that do not have quoted prices have less
    observability and are measured at fair value using valuation
    models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment.
    An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or
    liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency and
    volume to provide pricing

230    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

information on an ongoing basis. An
     other-than-active 
    market is one in which there are few transactions, the prices
    are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over
    time or among market makers, or in which little information is
    released publicly for the asset or liability being valued.
    Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors,
    including the type of financial instrument, whether the
    financial instrument is new to the market and not yet
    established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and
    general market conditions.

Fair
    Value Hierarchy  

Beginning January 1, 2008, assets and liabilities recorded
    at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet are measured and
    classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of
    three  levels  based on the observability of inputs
    available in the marketplace used to measure the fair values as
    discussed below:

Level 1:   Fair value measurements that are
    quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that AIG has the
    ability to access for identical assets or liabilities. Market
    price data generally is obtained from exchange or dealer
    markets. AIG does not adjust the quoted price for such
    instruments. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis and classified as Level 1 include certain
    government and agency securities, actively traded listed common
    stocks and derivative contracts, most separate account assets
    and most mutual funds.

Level 2:   Fair value measurements based on
    inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that
    are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
    indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar
    assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs other than
    quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability,
    such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at
    commonly quoted intervals. Assets and liabilities measured at
    fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2
    generally include certain government securities, most
    investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds, certain ABS,
    certain listed equities, state, municipal and provincial
    obligations, hybrid securities, mutual fund and hedge fund
    investments, derivative contracts, GIAs at AIGFP and physical
    commodities.

Level 3:   Fair value measurements based on
    valuation techniques that use significant inputs that are
    unobservable. These measurements include circumstances in which
    there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or
    liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair
    value may fall into different levels of the fair value
    hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy
    within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is
    determined based on the lowest level input that is significant
    to the fair value measurement in its entirety. AIG s
    assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair
    value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making
    the assessment, AIG considers factors specific to the asset or
    liability. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis and classified as Level 3 include certain
    distressed ABS, structured credit products, certain derivative
    contracts (including AIGFP s super senior credit default
    swap portfolio), policyholder contract deposits carried at fair
    value, private equity and real estate fund investments, and
    direct private equity investments. AIG s
    non-financial-instrument assets that are measured at fair value
    on a non-recurring basis generally are classified as
    Level 3.

The following is a description of the valuation methodologies
    used for instruments carried at fair value:

Incorporation
    of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements   

AIG s Own Credit Risk.   Fair value
    measurements for AIGFP s debt, GIAs, structured note
    liabilities and freestanding derivatives incorporate AIG s
    own credit risk by determining the explicit cost for each
    counterparty to protect against its net credit exposure to AIG
    at the balance sheet date by reference to observable AIG credit
    default swap spreads. A counterparty s net credit exposure
    to AIG is determined based on master netting agreements, when
    applicable, which take into consideration all positions with
    AIG, as well as collateral posted by AIG with the counterparty
    at the balance sheet date.

Fair value measurements for embedded policy derivatives and
    policyholder contract deposits take into consideration that
    policyholder liabilities are senior in priority to general
    creditors of AIG and therefore are much less sensitive to
    changes in AIG credit default swap or cash issuance spreads.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    231 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Counterparty Credit Risk.   Fair value
    measurements for freestanding derivatives incorporate
    counterparty credit by determining the explicit cost for AIG to
    protect against its net credit exposure to each counterparty at
    the balance sheet date by reference to observable counterparty
    credit default swap spreads. AIG s net credit exposure to a
    counterparty is determined based on master netting agreements,
    which take into consideration all derivative positions with the
    counterparty, as well as cash collateral posted by the
    counterparty at the balance sheet date.

Fair values for fixed maturity securities based on observable
    market prices for identical or similar instruments implicitly
    include the incorporation of counterparty credit risk. Fair
    values for fixed maturity securities based on internal models
    incorporate counterparty credit risk by using discount rates
    that take into consideration cash issuance spreads for similar
    instruments or other observable information.

Fixed
    Maturity Securities   Trading and Available for
    Sale   

AIG maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use
    of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Whenever
    available, AIG obtains quoted prices in active markets for
    identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair
    value fixed maturity securities in its trading and available for
    sale portfolios. Market price data generally is obtained from
    exchange or dealer markets.

AIG estimates the fair value of fixed maturity securities not
    traded in active markets, including securities purchased (sold)
    under agreements to resell (repurchase), and mortgage and other
    loans receivable for which AIG elected the fair value option, by
    referring to traded securities with similar attributes, using
    dealer quotations, a matrix pricing methodology, discounted cash
    flow analyses or internal valuation models. This methodology
    considers such factors as the issuer s industry, the
    security s rating and tenor, its coupon rate, its position
    in the capital structure of the issuer, yield curves, credit
    curves, prepayment rates and other relevant factors. For fixed
    maturity instruments that are not traded in active markets or
    that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are
    adjusted to reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
    non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on
    available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence,
    management s best estimate is used.

ML II
    and ML III   

At their inception, AIG s economic interests in ML II
    and membership interests in ML III (Maiden Lane Interests)
    were valued at the transaction prices of $1 billion and
    $5 billion, respectively. Subsequently, Maiden Lane
    Interests are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology
    that uses the estimated future cash flows of the assets to which
    the Maiden Lane Interests are entitled and the discount rates
    applicable to such interests as derived from the fair value of
    the entire asset pool. The implicit discount rates are
    calibrated to the changes in the estimated asset values for the
    underlying assets commensurate with AIG s interests in the
    capital structure of the respective entities. Estimated cash
    flows and discount rates used in the valuations are validated,
    to the extent possible, using market observable information for
    securities with similar asset pools, structure and terms.

Valuation Sensitivity:  The fair values of the Maiden
    Lane Interests are most affected by changes in the discount
    rates and changes in the underlying estimated future collateral
    cash flow assumptions used in the valuation model.

The benchmark LIBOR interest rate curve changes are determined
    by macroeconomic considerations and financial sector credit
    spreads. The spreads over LIBOR for the Maiden Lane Interests
    (including collateral-specific credit and liquidity spreads) can
    change as a result of changes in market expectations about the
    future performance of these investments as well as changes in
    the risk premium that market participants would demand at the
    time of the transactions.

Changes in estimated future cash flows would primarily be the
    result of changes in expectations for collateral defaults,
    recoveries, and underlying loan prepayments.

232    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Increases in the discount rate or decreases in estimated future
    cash flows used in the valuation would decrease AIG s
    estimate of the fair value of the Maiden Lane Interests as shown
    in the table below.

AIG believes that the ranges of discount rates used in these
    analyses are reasonable based on implied spread volatilities of
    similar collateral securities and implied volatilities of LIBOR
    interest rates. The ranges of estimated future cash flows were
    determined based on variability in estimated future cash flows
    implied by cumulative loss estimates for similar instruments.
    The fair values of the Maiden Lane Interests are likely to vary,
    perhaps materially, from the amount estimated.

Equity
    Securities Traded in Active Markets   Trading and
    Available for Sale   

AIG maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use
    of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Whenever
    available, AIG obtains quoted prices in active markets for
    identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair
    value marketable equity securities in its trading and available
    for sale portfolios. Market price data generally is obtained
    from exchange or dealer markets.

Non-Traded
    Equity Investments   Other Invested
    Assets   

AIG initially estimates the fair value of equity instruments not
    traded in active markets by reference to the transaction price.
    This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs and
    assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as transactions in
    similar instruments, completed or pending third-party
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or
    cash flows. For equity securities that are not traded in active
    markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations
    are adjusted to reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
    non-transferability and such adjustments generally are based on
    available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence,
    management s best estimate is used.

Private
    Limited Partnership and Hedge Fund Investments  
    Other Invested Assets   

AIG initially estimates the fair value of investments in certain
    private limited partnerships and certain hedge funds by
    reference to the transaction price. Subsequently, AIG obtains
    the fair value of these investments generally from net asset
    value information provided by the general partner or manager of
    the investments, the financial statements of which generally are
    audited annually. AIG considers observable market data and
    performs diligence procedures in validating the appropriateness
    of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement.

Separate
    Account Assets   

Separate account assets are composed primarily of registered and
    unregistered open-end mutual funds that generally trade daily
    and are measured at fair value in the manner discussed above for
    equity securities traded in active markets.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    233 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Freestanding
    Derivatives   

Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or
    traded over the counter (OTC). AIG generally values
    exchange-traded derivatives using quoted prices in active
    markets for identical derivatives at the balance sheet date.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs
    to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions,
    broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with
    reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used,
    the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative
    depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent
    in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing
    information in the market. AIG generally uses similar models to
    value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of
    inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates,
    yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment
    rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that
    trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and
    options, model inputs can generally be corroborated by
    observable market data by correlation or other means, and model
    selection does not involve significant management judgment.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When AIG
    does not have corroborating market evidence to support
    significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market
    transactions, the transaction price is initially used as the
    best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model
    is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so
    the model value at inception equals the transaction price.
    Subsequent to initial recognition, AIG updates valuation inputs
    when corroborated by evidence such as similar market
    transactions, third-party pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data.
    When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Embedded
    Policy Derivatives   

The fair value of embedded policy derivatives contained in
    certain variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life
    contracts is measured based on actuarial and capital market
    assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected
    lives of the contracts. These cash flow estimates primarily
    include benefits and related fees assessed, when applicable, and
    incorporate expectations about policyholder behavior. Estimates
    of future policyholder behavior are subjective and based
    primarily on AIG s historical experience. With respect to
    embedded policy derivatives in AIG s variable annuity
    contracts, because of the dynamic and complex nature of the
    expected cash flows, risk neutral valuations are used.
    Estimating the underlying cash flows for these products involves
    many estimates and judgments, including those regarding expected
    market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of
    market index returns to funds, fund performance, discount rates
    and policyholder behavior. With respect to embedded policy
    derivatives in AIG s equity-indexed annuity and life
    contracts, option pricing models are used to estimate fair
    value, taking into account assumptions for future equity index
    growth rates, volatility of the equity index, future interest
    rates, and determinations on adjusting the participation rate
    and the cap on equity indexed credited rates in light of market
    conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions. With the
    adoption of FAS 157, these methodologies were not changed,
    with the exception of incorporating an explicit risk margin to
    take into consideration market participant estimates of
    projected cash flows and policyholder behavior. The valuation
    technique used to measure the fair value of certain variable
    annuity guarantees was modified during 2008, primarily with
    respect to the development of long-dated equity volatility
    assumptions and the discount rates applied to certain projected
    benefit payments.

AIGFP s
    Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio   

AIGFP values its credit default swaps written on the super
    senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or
    loans using internal valuation models, third-party price
    estimates and market indices. The principal market was
    determined to be the market in which super senior credit default
    swaps of this type and size would be

234    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

transacted, or have been transacted, with the greatest volume or
    level of activity. AIG has determined that the principal market
    participants, therefore, would consist of other large financial
    institutions who participate in sophisticated
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives markets. The specific valuation methodologies vary
    based on the nature of the referenced obligations and
    availability of market prices.

The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives continues
    to be challenging given the limitation on the availability of
    market observable information due to the lack of trading and
    price transparency in the structured finance market,
    particularly during and since the second half of 2007. These
    market conditions have increased the reliance on management
    estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value
    for financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the
    valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the
    varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing
    volatile markets have increased the likelihood that the various
    parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly
    different estimates as to their fair values.

AIGFP s valuation methodologies for the super senior credit
    default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the
    deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient
    market observable information. AIG has sought to calibrate the
    model to available market information and to review the
    assumptions of the model on a regular basis.

In the case of credit default swaps written to facilitate
    regulatory capital relief, AIGFP estimates the fair value of
    these derivatives by considering observable market transactions.
    The transactions with the most observability are the early
    terminations of these transactions by counterparties. AIG
    expects that the majority of these transactions will be
    terminated within the next 15 months by AIGFP s
    counterparties. During 2008, $99.7 billion in net notional
    amount of regulatory capital super senior transactions was
    terminated or matured. AIGFP has also received formal
    termination notices for an additional $26.5 billion in net
    notional amount of regulatory capital super senior CDS
    transactions with effective termination dates in 2009. AIGFP has
    not been required to make any payments as part of these
    terminations and in certain cases was paid a fee upon
    termination. AIGFP also considers other market data, to the
    extent relevant and available.

AIGFP uses a modified version of the Binomial Expansion
    Technique (BET) model to value its credit default swap portfolio
    written on super senior tranches of multi-sector collateralized
    debt obligations (CDOs) of asset-backed securities (ABS),
    including maturity-shortening puts that allow the holders of the
    securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as
    short-term eligible
     2a-7 
    investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940
     (2a-7  Puts).
    The BET model was developed in 1996 by a major rating agency to
    generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a
    credit rating for those tranches, and has been widely used ever
    since.

AIGFP has adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the
    super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. AIG modified the
    BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for
    the underlying securities and not from rating agency
    assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price
    estimates for the securities comprising the portfolio of a CDO
    as an input and converts those estimates to credit spreads over
    current LIBOR-based interest rates. These credit spreads are
    used to determine implied probabilities of default and expected
    losses on the underlying securities. This data is then
    aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of the
    super senior tranche of the CDO.

Prices for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained
    in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent
    available. For the year ended December 31, 2008, CDO
    collateral managers provided market prices for 61.2 percent
    of the underlying securities. When a price for an individual
    security is not provided by a CDO collateral manager, AIGFP
    derives the price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO
    collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a
    mathematical technique used principally to value debt securities
    without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific
    securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the
    security to other benchmark quoted securities. Substantially all
    of the CDO collateral managers who provided prices used dealer
    prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some
    cases supplemented by third-party pricing services.

The BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average
    lives, recovery rates and discount rates.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    235 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIGFP employs a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying
    the effect on the valuation of the CDO of the unique aspects of
    the CDO s structure such as triggers that divert cash flows
    to the most senior part of the capital structure. The Monte
    Carlo simulation is used to determine whether an underlying
    security defaults in a given simulation scenario and, if it
    does, the security s implied random default time and
    expected loss. This information is used to project cash flow
    streams and to determine the expected losses of the portfolio.

In addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the
    super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps
    using its internal model, AIGFP also considers the price
    estimates for the super senior CDO securities provided by third
    parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to
    validate the results of the model and to determine the best
    available estimate of fair value. In determining the fair value
    of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit
    default swaps, AIGFP uses a consistent process which considers
    all available pricing data points and eliminates the use of
    outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a
    reasonable range an averaging technique is applied.

In the case of credit default swaps written on portfolios of
    investment-grade corporate debt, AIGFP estimates the fair value
    of its obligations by comparing the contractual premium of each
    contract to the current market levels of the senior tranches of
    comparable credit indices, the iTraxx index for European
    corporate issuances and the CDX index for U.S. corporate
    issuances. These indices are considered reasonable proxies for
    the referenced portfolios. In addition, AIGFP compares these
    valuations to third-party prices and makes adjustments as
    necessary to determine the best available estimate of fair value.

AIGFP estimates the fair value of its obligations resulting from
    credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par
    value less the current market value of the referenced
    obligation. Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining
    third-party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches
    referenced under the credit default swap contract.

Policyholder
    Contract Deposits   

Policyholder contract deposits accounted for at fair value
    beginning January 1, 2008 are measured using an income
    approach by taking into consideration the following factors:

Current policyholder account values and related surrender
    charges;

The present value of estimated future cash inflows (policy fees)
    and outflows (benefits and maintenance expenses) associated with
    the product using risk neutral valuations, incorporating
    expectations about policyholder behavior, market returns and
    other factors; and

A risk margin that market participants would require for a
    market return and the uncertainty inherent in the model inputs.

The change in fair value of these policyholder contract deposits
    is recorded as policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the
    consolidated statement of income (loss).

Spot
    commodities and Securities and spot commodities sold but not yet
    purchased   

Fair values of spot commodities and spot commodities sold but
    not yet purchased are based on current market prices of
    reference spot futures contracts traded on exchanges. Fair
    values for securities sold but not yet purchased are based on
    current market prices.

236    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis  

The following table presents information about assets and
    liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and
    indicates the level of the fair value measurement based on the
    levels of the inputs used: 

(a)   

Represents netting of derivative exposures covered by a
    qualifying master netting agreement in accordance with
    FIN 39.  

(b)   

Represents cash collateral posted and received.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    237 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(c)   

Amounts exclude short-term investments that are carried at
    cost, which approximates fair value of $443 million.  

(d)   

Approximately 14.6 percent of the fair value of the assets
    recorded as Level 3 relates to various private equity, real
    estate, hedge fund and fund-of-funds which are consolidated by
    AIG. AIG s ownership in these funds represented 27.6
    percent, or $1.7 billion of the Level 3 amount.  

(e)   

Included in Level 3 is the fair value derivative
    liability of $9.0 billion on AIGFP super senior credit
    default swap portfolio.  

At December 31, 2008, Level 3 assets were
    4.9 percent of total assets, and Level 3 liabilities
    were 2.6 percent of total liabilities.

The following tables present changes during 2008 in
    Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis, and the realized and unrealized gains (losses)
    recorded in income during 2008 related to the Level 3
    assets and liabilities that remained in the consolidated balance
    sheet at December 31, 2008: 

(a)   

Total Level 3 derivative exposures have been netted on
    these tables for presentation purposes only.  

238    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(b)   

Net realized and unrealized gains and losses shown above are
    reported in the consolidated statement of income (loss)
    primarily as follows:  

Major Category of Assets/Liabilities 

Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) Line Items 

Financial Services assets and liabilities

Other income

Unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP super senior credit
    default swap portfolio

Securities lending invested collateral

Net realized capital gains (losses)

Other invested assets

Net realized capital gains (losses)

Policyholder contract deposits

Policyholder benefits and claims incurred

Net realized capital gains (losses)

Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine
    the fair values of positions classified in Level 3 in the
    tables above. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) on
    instruments held at December 31, 2008 may include
    changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable
    (e.g., changes in market interest rates) and unobservable inputs
    (e.g., changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities).

AIG uses various hedging techniques to manage risks associated
    with certain positions, including those classified within
    Level 3. Such techniques may include the purchase or sale
    of financial instruments that are classified within Level 1
     and/or 
    Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains
    (losses) for assets and liabilities classified within
    Level 3 presented in the table above do not reflect the
    related realized or unrealized gains (losses) on hedging
    instruments that are classified within Level 1
     and/or 
    Level 2.

Changes in the fair value of separate and variable account
    assets are completely offset in the consolidated statement of
    income (loss) by changes in separate and variable account
    liabilities, which are not carried at fair value and therefore
    not included in the tables above.

Fair
    Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis  

AIG also measures the fair value of certain assets on a
    non-recurring basis, generally quarterly, annually, or when
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of the assets may not be recoverable. These assets
    include held to maturity securities (in periods prior to the
    third quarter of 2008), cost and equity-method investments, life
    settlement contracts, flight equipment, collateral securing
    foreclosed loans and real estate and other fixed assets,
    goodwill, and other intangible assets. AIG uses a variety of
    techniques to measure the fair value of these assets when
    appropriate, as described below:

Cost and Equity-Method Investments:   When AIG
    determines that the carrying value of these assets may not be
    recoverable, AIG records the assets at fair value with the loss
    recognized in income. In such cases, AIG measures the fair value
    of these assets using the techniques discussed in Fair Value
    Measurements on a Recurring Basis   Fair Value
    Hierarchy, above, for fixed maturities and equity securities.

Life Settlement Contracts:   AIG measures the
    fair value of individual life settlement contracts (which are
    included in other invested assets) whenever the carrying value
    plus the undiscounted future costs that are expected to be
    incurred to keep the life settlement contract in force exceed
    the expected proceeds from the contract. In those situations,
    the fair value is determined on a discounted cash flow basis,
    incorporating current life expectancy assumptions. The discount
    rate incorporates current information about market interest
    rates, the credit exposure to the insurance company that issued
    the life settlement contract and AIG s estimate of the risk
    margin an investor in the contracts would require.

Flight Equipment Primarily Under Operating
    Leases:   When AIG determines the carrying value of
    its commercial aircraft may not be recoverable, AIG records the
    aircraft at fair value with the loss recognized in income. AIG
    measures the fair value of its commercial aircraft using an
    income approach based on the present value of all cash flows
    from existing and projected lease payments (based on historical
    experience and current expectations regarding market
    participants) including net contingent rentals for the period

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    239 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

extending to the end of the aircraft s economic life in its
    highest and best use configuration, plus its disposition value.

Collateral Securing Foreclosed Loans and Real Estate and
    Other Fixed Assets:   When AIG takes collateral in
    connection with foreclosed loans, AIG generally bases its
    estimate of fair value on the price that would be received in a
    current transaction to sell the asset by itself.

Goodwill:   AIG tests goodwill for impairment
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the
    carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable, but at least
    annually. When AIG determines goodwill may be impaired, AIG uses
    techniques including discounted expected future cash flows,
    appraisals, or, in the case of reporting units being considered
    for sale, third-party indications of fair value, if available.

Long-Lived Assets:   AIG tests its long-lived
    assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate the carrying amount of a long-lived asset
    may not be recoverable. AIG measures the fair value of
    long-lived assets based on an in-use premise that considers the
    same factors used to estimate the fair value of its real estate
    and other fixed assets under an in-use premise discussed above.

See Notes 1(c), (d), (e), and (s) herein for
    additional information about how AIG tests various asset classes
    for impairment.

Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis on
    which impairment charges were recorded were as follows: 

AIG recognized goodwill impairment charges of $4.1 billion
    in 2008, which were primarily related to the General Insurance,
    Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services,
    Consumer Finance and the Capital Markets businesses. At
    December 31, 2008, the carrying value of remaining goodwill
    in the General Insurance, Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services and Asset Management operating segments totaled
    $1.3 billion, $4.4 billion and $1.3 billion,
    respectively.

AIG recognized an impairment charge on certain investment real
    estate and other long-lived assets of $614 million for
    2008, which was included in other income. As required by
    FAS 157, the fair value disclosed in the table above is
    unadjusted for transaction costs. The amounts recorded on the
    consolidated balance sheet are net of transaction costs.

Fair
    Value Option  

FAS 159 permits a company to choose to measure at fair
    value many financial instruments and certain other assets and
    liabilities that are not required to be measured at fair value.
    Subsequent changes in fair value for designated items are
    required to be reported in income. Unrealized gains and losses
    on financial instruments in AIG s insurance businesses and
    in AIGFP for which the fair value option was elected under
    FAS 159 are classified in policyholder benefits and claims
    incurred and in other income, respectively, in the consolidated
    statement of income (loss).

240    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the gains or losses recorded
    during 2008 related to the eligible instruments for which AIG
    elected the fair value option and the related transition
    adjustment recorded as a decrease to opening shareholders 
    equity at January 1, 2008: 

(a)   

Effective January 1, 2008, AIGFP elected to apply the
    fair value option under FAS 159 to all eligible assets and
    liabilities (other than equity method investments, trade
    receivables and trade payables) because electing the fair value
    option allows AIGFP to more closely align its results with the
    economics of its transactions by recognizing concurrently
    through earnings the change in fair value of its derivatives and
    the offsetting change in fair value of the assets and
    liabilities being hedged as well as the manner in which the
    business is evaluated by management. Substantially all of the
    gain (loss) amounts shown above are reported in other income on
    the consolidated statement of income (loss). In August 2008,
    AIGFP modified prospectively this election as management
    believes it is appropriate to exclude from the automatic
    election for securities purchased in connection with existing
    structured credit transactions and their related funding
    obligations. AIGFP will evaluate whether to elect the fair value
    option on a
     case-by-case 
    basis for securities purchased in connection with existing
    structured credit transactions and their related funding
    obligations.  

(b)   

AIG elected to apply the fair value option to certain single
    premium variable life products in Japan and an investment-linked
    life insurance product sold principally in Asia, both classified
    within policyholder contract deposits in the consolidated
    balance sheet. AIG elected the fair value option for these
    liabilities to more closely align its accounting with the
    economics of its transactions. For the investment-linked product
    sold principally in   

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    241 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Asia, the election more effectively aligns changes in the
    fair value of assets with a commensurate change in the fair
    value of policyholders  liabilities. For the single premium
    life products in Japan, the fair value option election allows
    AIG to economically hedge the inherent market risks associated
    with this business in an efficient and effective manner through
    the use of derivative instruments. The hedging program, which
    was completely implemented in the third quarter of 2008, results
    in an accounting presentation for this business that more
    closely reflects the underlying economics and the way the
    business is managed, with the change in the fair value of
    derivatives and underlying assets largely offsetting the change
    in fair value of the policy liabilities. AIG did not elect the
    fair value option for other liabilities classified in
    policyholder contract deposits because other contracts do not
    share the same contract features that created the disparity
    between the accounting presentation and the economic
    performance.  

(c)   

Not included in the table above were losses of
    $44.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    that were primarily due to changes in the fair value of
    derivatives, trading securities and certain other invested
    assets for which the fair value option under FAS 159 was
    not elected. Included in this amount were unrealized market
    valuation losses of $28.6 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, related to AIGFP s super senior
    credit default swap portfolio.  

Interest income and expense and dividend income on assets and
    liabilities elected under the fair value option are recognized
    and classified in the consolidated statement of income (loss)
    depending on the nature of the instrument and related market
    conventions. For AIGFP related activity, interest, dividend
    income, and interest expense are included in other income.
    Otherwise, interest and dividend income are included in net
    investment income in the consolidated statement of income
    (loss). See Note 1(a) herein for additional information
    about AIG s policies for recognition, measurement, and
    disclosure of interest and dividend income and interest expense.

During 2008, AIG recognized a gain of $84 million,
    attributable to the observable effect of changes in credit
    spreads on AIG s own liabilities for which the fair value
    option was elected. AIG calculates the effect of these credit
    spread changes using discounted cash flow techniques that
    incorporate current market interest rates, AIG s observable
    credit spreads on these liabilities and other factors that
    mitigate the risk of nonperformance such as collateral posted.

The following table presents the difference between fair
    values and the aggregate contractual principal amounts of
    mortgage and other loans receivable and long-term debt, for
    which the fair value option was elected: 

At December 31, 2008, there were no mortgage and other
    loans receivable for which the fair value option was elected,
    that were 90 days or more past due and in non-accrual
    status.

Fair
    Value Information about Financial Instruments Not Measured at
    Fair Value  

FAS 107,  Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments  (FAS 107), requires disclosure of fair
    value information about financial instruments for which it is
    practicable to estimate such fair value. FAS 107 excludes
    certain financial instruments, including those related to
    insurance contracts and lease contracts.

Information regarding the estimation of fair value for financial
    instruments not carried at fair value is discussed below:

Mortgage and other loans receivable:   Fair
    values of loans on real estate and collateral loans were
    estimated for disclosure purposes using discounted cash flow
    calculations based upon discount rates that

242    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG believes market participants would use in determining the
    price they would pay for such assets. For certain loans,
    AIG s current incremental lending rates for similar type
    loans is used as the discount rate, as it is believed that this
    rate approximates the rates market participants would use. The
    fair values of policy loans were not estimated as AIG believes
    it would have to expend excessive costs for the benefits derived.

Finance receivables:   Fair values were
    estimated for disclosure purposes using discounted cash flow
    calculations based upon the weighted average rates currently
    being offered in the marketplace for similar finance receivables.

Securities lending invested collateral and securities lending
    payable:   Securities lending collateral are
    floating rate fixed maturity securities recorded at fair value.
    Fair values were based upon quoted market prices or internally
    developed models consistent with the methodology for other fixed
    maturity securities. The contract values of securities lending
    payable approximate fair value as these obligations are
    short-term in nature.

Cash, short-term investments, trade receivables, trade
    payables, securities purchased (sold) under agreements to resell
    (repurchase), and commercial paper and extendible commercial
    notes:   The carrying values of these assets and
    liabilities approximate fair values because of the relatively
    short period of time between origination and expected
    realization.

Policyholder contract deposits associated with
    investment-type contracts:   Fair values for
    policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type
    contracts not accounted for at fair value were estimated for
    disclosure purposes using discounted cash flow calculations
    based upon interest rates currently being offered for similar
    contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for
    the contracts being valued. Where no similar contracts are being
    offered, the discount rate is the appropriate tenor swap rates
    (if available) or current risk-free interest rates consistent
    with the currency in which the cash flows are denominated.

Trust deposits and deposits due to banks and other
    depositors:   The fair values of certificates of
    deposit which mature in more than one year are estimated for
    disclosure purposes using discounted cash flow calculations
    based upon interest rates currently offered for deposits with
    similar maturities. For demand deposits and certificates of
    deposit which mature in less than one year, carrying values
    approximate fair value.

Long-term debt:   Fair values of these
    obligations were estimated for disclosure purposes using
    discounted cash flow calculations based upon AIG s current
    incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowings with
    maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt being
    valued.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    243 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the carrying value and estimated
    fair value of AIG s financial instruments as required by
    FAS 107: 

(a)   

The carrying value of all other financial instruments
    approximates fair value.  

(b)   

Excludes aircraft asset investments held by non-Financial
    Services subsidiaries.  

244    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

5.    

Investments  

(a) Statutory Deposits:   Total carrying
    values of cash and securities deposited by AIG s insurance
    subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities were
    $15.2 billion and $13.6 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

(b) Net Investment Income:    An analysis
    of net investment income follows: 

*   

Includes net investment income from securities lending
    activities, representing interest earned on securities lending
    invested collateral offset by interest expense on securities
    lending payable.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    245 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(c)     

Net
    Realized Gains and Losses:   

The Net realized capital gains (losses) and increase
    (decrease) in unrealized appreciation of AIG s available
    for sale investments were as follows: 

Net unrealized gains (losses) included in the consolidated
    statement of income from investment securities classified as
    trading securities in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were
    $(8.1) billion, $1.1 billion and $938 million,
    respectively.

Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairments  

AIG assesses its ability to hold any fixed maturity security in
    an unrealized loss position to its recovery, including fixed
    maturity securities classified as available for sale, at each
    balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity
    security classified as available for sale reflects the judgment
    of AIG s management that the security to be sold is
    unlikely to provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a
    return in the future as alternative securities entailing
    comparable risks. With respect to distressed securities, the
    decision to sell reflects the judgment of AIG s management
    that the risk-discounted anticipated ultimate recovery is less
    than the value achievable on sale.

AIG evaluates its investments for impairments in valuation as
    well as credit. The determination that a security has incurred
    an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment
    of AIG s management and consideration of the fundamental
    condition of the issuer, its near-term prospects and all the
    relevant facts and circumstances. See Note 1(c)  
    Investments in Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities for
    further information on AIG s impairment policy.

Once a security has been identified as other-than-temporarily
    impaired, the amount of such impairment is determined by
    reference to that security s contemporaneous fair value and
    recorded as a charge to earnings.

246    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

As a result of AIG s periodic evaluation of its securities
    for other-than-temporary impairments in value, AIG recorded
    other-than-temporary impairment charges of $50.8 billion,
    $4.7 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFP
    recorded in other income) and $944 million in 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.

In light of the recent significant disruption in the
    U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, AIG has
    recognized an other-than-temporary impairment charge (severity
    loss) of $29.1 billion in 2008, primarily related to
    mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized securities, and
    securities of financial institutions. Notwithstanding AIG s
    intent and ability to hold such securities until they have
    recovered their cost basis (except for securities lending
    invested collateral comprising $9.2 billion of the severity
    loss for 2008), and despite structures that indicate that a
    substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform
    in accordance with original terms, AIG concluded that it could
    not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be
    temporary.

In addition to the above severity losses, AIG recorded
    other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2008, 2007 and 2006
    related to:

securities that AIG does not intend to hold until recovery;

declines due to foreign exchange rates;

issuer-specific credit events;

certain structured securities impaired under Emerging Issues
    Task Force Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests that Continue to
    be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets 
    and related interpretive guidance; and

other impairments, including equity securities and partnership
    investments.

The gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales
    of AIG s available for sale securities were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    247 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(d)     

Fair
    Value of Investment Securities:   

The amortized cost or cost and fair value of AIG s
    available for sale and held to maturity securities were as
    follows: 

(a)   

At December 31, 2007, included AIGFP available for sale
    securities with a fair value of $39.3 billion, for which
    AIGFP elected the fair value option effective January 1,
    2008, consisting primarily of corporate debt, mortgage-backed,
    asset-backed and collateralized securities. At December 31,
    2008, the fair value of these securities was $26.1 billion.
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, fixed maturities held by AIG
    that were below investment grade or not rated totaled
    $19.4 billion and $27.0 billion, respectively. During
    the third quarter of 2008, AIG changed its intent to hold until
    maturity certain tax-exempt municipal securities held by its
    insurance subsidiaries. As a result, all securities previously
    classified as held to maturity are now classified in the
    available for sale category. See Note 1 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information. Fixed maturity
    securities reported on the balance sheet include
    $442 million of short-term investments included in
    Securities lending invested collateral.  

(b)   

Excluding AIGFP, corporate debt securities by industry
    categories were primarily in financial institutions and
    utilities at 42 percent and 13 percent, respectively, at
    December 31, 2008 and 42 percent and 11 percent,
    respectively, at December 31, 2007.  

(c)   

The December 31, 2007 amounts represent total AIGFP
    investments in mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized
    securities for which AIGFP has elected the fair value option
    effective January 1, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the
    fair value of these securities was $12.4 billion. The
    December 31, 2008 amounts represent securities for which
    AIGFP has not elected the fair value option.  

(d)   

Represents obligations of states, municipalities and
    political subdivisions. In 2008, AIG changed its intent to hold
    such securities to maturity.  

248    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The amortized cost and fair values of AIG s available
    for sale fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity were
    as follows. Actual maturities may differ from contractual
    maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or
    prepay certain obligations with or without call or prepayment
    penalties. 

AIG s available for sale securities are recorded on the
    consolidated balance sheet as follows: 

(e)     

Gross
    Unrealized Losses and Estimated Fair Values on
    Investments:   

The following table summarizes the cost basis and gross
    unrealized losses on AIG s available for sale securities,
    aggregated by major investment category and length of time that
    individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss
    position: 

(a)   

For bonds, represents amortized cost.  

(b)   

Primarily relates to the corporate debt category.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    249 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2008, AIG held 29,068 and 40,029 of
    individual bond and stock investments, respectively, that were
    in an unrealized loss position, of which 7,736 individual
    investments were in an unrealized loss position for a continuous
    12 months or longer.

AIG did not consider these securities in an unrealized loss
    position to be other-than-temporarily impaired at
    December 31, 2008, because management has the intent and
    ability to hold these investments until they recover their cost
    basis within a recovery period deemed to be temporary. In
    performing this evaluation, management considered the market
    recovery periods for securities in previous periods of broad
    market declines. In addition, for certain securities with more
    significant declines, management performed extended fundamental
    credit analysis on a
     security-by-security 
    basis including consideration of credit enhancements, expected
    defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry
    analyst reports and forecasts and other market available data.
    In management s view this analysis provides persuasive
    evidence sufficient to conclude that such severe declines in
    fair value below amortized cost should not be considered other
    than temporary.

(f)     

Maiden
    Lane II LLC   

On December 12, 2008, AIG, certain wholly owned
    U.S. life insurance company subsidiaries of AIG (the life
    insurance companies), and AIG Securities Lending Corp. (the AIG
    Agent), another AIG subsidiary, entered into an Asset Purchase
    Agreement (the Asset Purchase Agreement) with Maiden
    Lane II LLC (ML II), a Delaware limited liability company
    whose sole member is the NY Fed.

Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, the life insurance
    companies sold to ML II all of their undivided interests in a
    pool of $39.3 billion face amount of residential
    mortgage-backed securities (the RMBS) held by the AIG Agent, as
    agent of the life insurance companies, in connection with
    AIG s U.S. securities lending program (the Securities
    Lending Program). The AIG Agent had purchased the RMBS on behalf
    of the life insurance companies with cash held as collateral for
    securities loaned by the life insurance companies in the U.S.
    Securities Lending Program. In exchange for the RMBS, the life
    insurance companies received an initial purchase price of
    $19.8 billion plus the right to receive deferred contingent
    portions of the total purchase price of $1 billion plus a
    participation in the residual, each of which is subordinated to
    the repayment of the NY Fed loan to ML II. The amount of the
    initial payment and the deferred contingent portions of the
    total purchase price, if any are realized, will be allocated
    among the life insurance companies based on their respective
    ownership interests in the pool of RMBS as of September 30,
    2008.

Pursuant to a credit agreement, the NY Fed, as senior lender,
    made a loan to ML II (the ML II Senior Loan) in the aggregate
    amount of $19.5 billion (such amount being the cash
    purchase price of the RMBS payable by ML II on the closing date
    after certain adjustments, including payments on RMBS for the
    period between the transaction settlement date of
    October 31, 2008 and the closing date of December 12,
    2008). The ML II Senior Loan is secured by a first priority
    security interest in the RMBS and all property of ML II, bears
    interest at a rate per annum equal to one-month LIBOR plus
    1.00 percent and has a stated six-year term, subject to
    extension by the NY Fed at its sole discretion. After the ML II
    Senior Loan has been repaid in full, to the extent there are
    sufficient net cash proceeds from the RMBS, the life insurance
    companies will be entitled to receive from ML II a portion of
    the deferred contingent purchase price in the amount of up to
    $1.0 billion plus interest that accrues from the closing
    date and is capitalized monthly at the rate of one-month LIBOR
    plus 3.0 percent. In addition, after ML II has paid this
    fixed portion of the deferred contingent purchase price plus
    interest, the life insurance companies will be entitled to
    receive one-sixth of any net proceeds received by ML II in
    respect of the RMBS as the remaining deferred contingent
    purchase price for the RMBS and the NY Fed will receive
    five-sixths of any net proceeds received by ML II in respect of
    the RMBS as contingent interest on the ML II Senior Loan. The NY
    Fed will have sole control over ML II and the sales of the RMBS
    by ML II so long as the NY Fed has any interest in the ML II
    Senior Loan.

AIG does not have any control rights over ML II. AIG has
    determined that ML II is a variable interest entity (VIE) and
    AIG is not the primary beneficiary. The transfer of RMBS to ML
    II has been accounted for as a sale, in accordance with
    FAS 140. AIG has elected to account for its $1 billion
    economic interest in ML II (including the rights to the deferred
    contingent purchase price) at fair value under FAS 159.
    This interest is reported in Bonds  

250    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

trading securities, with changes in fair value reported as a
    component of Net investment income. See Note 4 for further
    discussion of AIG s fair value methodology.

The life insurance companies applied the initial consideration
    from the RMBS sale, along with available cash and
    $5.1 billion provided by AIG in the form of capital
    contributions, to settle outstanding securities lending
    transactions under the U.S. Securities Lending Program,
    including those with the NY Fed, which totaled approximately
    $20.5 billion at December 12, 2008, and the U.S.
    Securities Lending Program and the Securities Lending Agreement
    with the NY Fed have been terminated.

(g)     

Maiden
    Lane III LLC   

On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Master Investment
    and Credit Agreement (the ML III Agreement) with the NY Fed,
    Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III), and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, which established arrangements, through ML III, to fund
    the purchase of multi-sector collateralized debt obligations
    (multi-sector CDOs) underlying or related to certain credit
    default swaps and other similar derivative instruments (CDS)
    written by AIG Financial Products Corp. in connection with the
    termination of such CDS. Concurrently, AIG Financial Products
    Corp. s counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to
    terminate those CDS transactions relating to the multi-sector
    CDOs purchased from them.

Pursuant to the ML III Agreement, the NY Fed, as senior lender,
    made available to ML III a term loan facility (the ML III Senior
    Loan) in an aggregate amount up to $30.0 billion. The ML
    III Senior Loan bears interest at one-month LIBOR plus
    1.0 percent and has a six-year expected term, subject to
    extension by the NY Fed at its sole discretion.

AIG contributed $5.0 billion for an equity interest in ML
    III. The equity interest will accrue distributions at a rate per
    annum equal to one-month LIBOR plus 3.0 percent. Accrued
    but unpaid distributions on the equity interest will be
    compounded monthly. AIG s rights to payment from ML III are
    fully subordinated and junior to all payments of principal and
    interest on the ML III Senior Loan. The creditors of ML III do
    not have recourse to AIG for ML III s obligations, although
    AIG is exposed to losses up to the full amount of AIG s
    equity interest in ML III.

Upon payment in full of the ML III Senior Loan and the accrued
    distributions on AIG s equity interest in ML III, all
    remaining amounts received by ML III will be paid
    67 percent to the NY Fed as contingent interest and
    33 percent to AIG as contingent distributions on its equity
    interest.

The NY Fed is the controlling party and managing member of ML
    III for so long as the NY Fed has any interest in the
    ML III Senior Loan. AIG does not have any control rights
    over ML III. AIG has determined that ML III is a VIE and AIG is
    not the primary beneficiary. AIG has elected to account for its
    $5 billion interest in ML III (including the rights to
    contingent distributions) at fair value under FAS 159. This
    interest is reported in Bonds   trading securities, at
    fair value, with changes in fair value reported as a component
    of Net investment income. See Note 4 for a further
    discussion of AIG s fair value methodology.

Through December 31, 2008, AIG Financial Products Corp.
    terminated CDS transactions with its counterparties and
    concurrently, ML III purchased the underlying multi-sector CDOs,
    including $8.5 billion of multi-sector CDOs underlying
     2a-7  Puts
    written by AIG Financial Products Corp. The NY Fed advanced an
    aggregate of $24.3 billion to ML III under the ML III
    Senior Loan, and ML III funded its purchase of the
    $62.1 billion of multi-sector CDOs with a net payment to
    AIG Financial Products Corp. counterparties of
    $26.8 billion. AIG Financial Products Corp. s
    counterparties also retained $35.0 billion, of which
    $2.5 billion was returned under the shortfall agreement, in
    net collateral previously posted by AIG Financial Products Corp.
    in respect of the terminated multi-sector CDS. The
    $26.8 billion funded by ML III was based on the fair value
    of the underlying multi-sector CDOs at October 31, 2008, as
    mutually agreed between the NY Fed and AIG.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    251 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(h)     

Other
    Invested Assets:   

Other invested assets were as follows: 

(a)   

Includes private equity partnerships and hedge funds.  

(b)   

Net of accumulated depreciation of $813 million and
    $548 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

(c)   

Consist primarily of Life Insurance   Retirement
    Services investments in aircraft equipment held in trusts.  

(d)   

See paragraph (i) below for additional information.  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $6.8 billion and
    $7.2 billion of Other invested assets related to available
    for sale investments carried at fair value, with unrealized
    gains and losses recorded in of Accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), net of deferred taxes, with almost all of the
    remaining investments being accounted for on the equity method
    of accounting. All of the investments are subject to impairment
    testing (see Note 1(k) herein). The gross unrealized loss
    on the investments accounted for as available for sale at
    December 31, 2008 was $438 million, the majority of
    which represents investments that have been in a continuous
    unrealized loss position for less than 12 months.

(i) Investments in Life Settlement
    Contracts:   At December 31, 2008, the
    carrying value of AIG s life settlement contracts was
    $2.6 billion, and is included in Other invested assets in
    the consolidated balance sheet. These investments are monitored
    for impairment on a contract-by-contract basis quarterly. During
    2008, income recognized on life settlement contracts previously
    held in non-consolidated trusts was $99 million, and is
    included in net investment income in the consolidated statement
    of income.

Further information regarding life settlement contracts
    follows: 

252    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2008, the anticipated life insurance
    premiums required to keep the life settlement contracts in
    force, payable in the ensuing twelve months ending
    December 31, 2009 and the four succeeding years ending
    December 31, 2013 are $258 million, $280 million,
    $279 million, $285 million, and $285 million,
    respectively.

6.    

Lending
    Activities  

Mortgages and other loans receivable were as follows: 

*  

Primarily consists of foreign mortgage loans.  

Mortgage loans and other receivables held for sale were
    $33 million and $377 million at December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively.

Finance receivables, net of unearned finance charges, were as
    follows: 

Finance receivables held for sale were $960 million and
    $233 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

7.    

Reinsurance  

In the ordinary course of business, AIG s General Insurance
    and Life Insurance companies place reinsurance with other
    insurance companies in order to provide greater diversification
    of AIG s business and limit the potential for losses
    arising from large risks. In addition, AIG s General
    Insurance subsidiaries assume reinsurance from other insurance
    companies.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    253 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Supplemental information for gross loss and benefit reserves
    net of ceded reinsurance follows: 

*  

Represents gross reinsurance assets, excluding allowances and
    reinsurance recoverable on paid losses.  

AIRCO acts primarily as an internal reinsurance company for
    AIG s insurance operations. This facilitates insurance risk
    management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital
    planning locally (branch and subsidiary). It also allows AIG to
    pool its insurance risks and purchase reinsurance more
    efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty
    risk and relationships and manage global life catastrophe risks.

General
    Reinsurance  

General reinsurance is effected under reinsurance treaties and
    by negotiation on individual risks. Certain of these reinsurance
    arrangements consist of excess of loss contracts which protect
    AIG against losses over stipulated amounts. Ceded premiums are
    considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a
    reduction of premiums earned over the contract period in
    proportion to the protection received. Amounts recoverable from
    general reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the
    claims liabilities associated with the reinsurance and presented
    as a component of reinsurance assets. Assumed reinsurance
    premiums are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over the terms
    of the reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed
    reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order for
    reinsurance accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements
    are not met, the contract is accounted for as a deposit,
    resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract
    through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or
    expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance
    contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of both
    underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a
    significant loss for the assuming entity. Similar risk transfer
    criteria are used to determine whether directly written
    insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or as a
    deposit.

254    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

General Insurance premiums written and earned were as
    follows: 

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    reinsurance recoveries, which reduced loss and loss expenses
    incurred, amounted to $8.4 billion, $9.0 billion and
    $8.3 billion, respectively.

Life
    Reinsurance  

Life reinsurance is effected principally under yearly renewable
    term treaties. The premiums with respect to these treaties are
    considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a
    reduction of premiums earned over the contract period in
    proportion to the protection provided. Amounts recoverable from
    life reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the
    assumptions used for the underlying policy benefits and are
    presented as a component of reinsurance assets.

Life Insurance   Retirement Services premiums were
    as follows: 

Life Insurance recoveries, which reduced death and other
    benefits, approximated $908 million, $1.1 billion and
    $806 million, respectively, for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Life Insurance in force ceded to other insurance companies
    was as follows: 

Life Insurance assumed represented less than 0.1 percent,
    0.1 percent and 0.1 percent of gross Life
    Insurance in force at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, and Life Insurance   Retirement Services
    premiums assumed represented 0.2 percent, 0.1 percent
    and 0.1 percent of gross premiums and other considerations
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

AIG s Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement
    Services operations utilize internal and third-party reinsurance
    relationships to manage insurance risks and to facilitate
    capital management strategies. Pools of highly-

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    255 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

rated third-party reinsurers are utilized to manage net amounts
    at risk in excess of retention limits. AIG s Domestic Life
    Insurance companies also cede excess, non-economic reserves
    carried on a statutory-basis only on certain term and universal
    life insurance policies and certain fixed annuities to an
    offshore affiliate.

AIG generally obtains letters of credit in order to obtain
    statutory recognition of its intercompany reinsurance
    transactions. For this purpose, AIG has a $2.5 billion
    syndicated letter of credit facility outstanding at
    December 31, 2008, all of which relates to life
    intercompany reinsurance transactions. AIG has also obtained
    approximately $2.3 billion of letters of credit on a
    bilateral basis all of which relates to life intercompany
    reinsurance transactions. All of these approximately
    $4.8 billion of letters of credit are due to mature on
    December 31, 2015. In the event that AIG s Domestic
    Life Insurance companies cease to be wholly owned subsidiaries
    of AIG, then AIG may no longer be able to utilize these letters
    of credit or the above referenced facility.

Reinsurance
    Security  

AIG s third-party reinsurance arrangements do not relieve
    AIG from its direct obligation to its insureds. Thus, a credit
    exposure exists with respect to both general and life
    reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet
    the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. AIG
    holds substantial collateral as security under related
    reinsurance agreements in the form of funds, securities,
     and/or 
    letters of credit. A provision has been recorded for estimated
    unrecoverable reinsurance. AIG has been largely successful in
    prior recovery efforts.

AIG evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and
    establishes limits per reinsurer through AIG s Credit Risk
    Committee. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer
    represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is
    AIG s business substantially dependent upon any single
    reinsurer.

8.    

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs  

The rollforward of deferred policy acquisition costs were as
    follows: 

256    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(a)   

In 2007, amortization expense was reduced by
    $732 million related to changes in actuarial estimates,
    which was mostly offset in policyholder benefits and claims
    incurred.  

(b)   

In 2008, primarily represents the cumulative effect of the
    adoption of FAS 159. In 2007, includes the cumulative
    effect of the adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    of $(118) million and a balance sheet reclassification of
    $189 million.  

(c)   

Includes $1.4 billion, $5 million and
    $(720) million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, related to the effect of net unrealized gains and
    losses on available for sale securities.  

Included in the above table is the VOBA, an intangible asset
    recorded during purchase accounting, which is amortized in a
    manner similar to DAC. Amortization of VOBA was
    $111 million, $213 million and $239 million in
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, while the unamortized balance
    was $2.05 billion, $1.86 billion and
    $1.98 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The percentage of the unamortized balance of VOBA
    at 2008 expected to be amortized in 2009 through 2013 by year
    is: 11.7 percent, 10.0 percent, 8.1 percent,
    7.4 percent and 6.2 percent, respectively, with
    56.6 percent being amortized after five years. These
    projections are based on current estimates for investment,
    persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions. The DAC
    amortization charged to income includes the increase or decrease
    of amortization for
     FAS 97-related 
    realized capital gains (losses), primarily in the Domestic
    Retirement Services business. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the rate
    of amortization expense decreased by $2.2 billion,
    $291 million and $90 million, respectively.

There were no impairments of DAC or VOBA for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

9.    

Variable
    Interest Entities  

FIN 46R,  Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities  provides the guidance for the determination of
    consolidation for certain entities in which equity investors do
    not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest
    or do not have sufficient equity that is at risk which would
    allow the entity to finance its activities without additional
    subordinated financial support. FIN 46R recognizes that
    consolidation based on majority voting interest should not apply
    to these VIEs. A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary,
    which is the party or group of related parties that absorbs a
    majority of the expected losses of the VIE, receives the
    majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.

AIG primarily determines whether it is the primary beneficiary
    or a significant interest holder based on a qualitative
    assessment of the VIE. This includes a review of the VIE s
    capital structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature
    of the VIE s operations and purpose, nature of the
    VIE s interests issued, and AIG s interests in the
    entity which either create or absorb variability. AIG evaluates
    the design of the VIE and the related risks the entity was
    designed to expose the variable interest holders to in
    evaluating consolidation. In limited cases, when it may be
    unclear from a qualitative standpoint if AIG is the primary
    beneficiary, AIG uses a quantitative analysis to calculate the
    probability weighted expected losses and probability weighted
    expected residual returns using cash flow modeling.

AIG s total off balance sheet exposure associated with VIEs
    was $3.3 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    257 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents AIG s total assets, total
    liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure associated with its
    significant variable interests in  consolidated  VIEs: 

(a)   

Each of the VIE s assets can be used only to settle
    specific obligations of that VIE.  

(b)   

In 2008, AIG made revisions to the VIE assets reported above
    to exclude certain entities previously categorized as VIEs that
    were historically consolidated based on a voting interest model,
    were duplicated or were otherwise miscategorized. Accordingly,
    AIG revised the prior period presented to conform to the revised
    presentation.  

AIG defines a variable interest as significant relative to the
    materiality of its interest in the VIE. AIG calculates its
    maximum exposure to loss to be (i) the amount invested in
    the debt or equity of the VIE, (ii) the notional amount of
    VIE assets or liabilities where AIG has also provided credit
    protection to the VIE with the VIE as the referenced obligation,
    or (iii) other commitments and guarantees to the VIE.
    Interest holders in VIEs sponsored by AIG generally have
    recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do
    not have recourse to AIG, except in limited circumstances when
    AIG has provided a guarantee to the VIE s interest holders.

The following table presents total assets of
     unconsolidated  VIEs in which AIG holds a significant
    variable interest or is a sponsor that holds variable interest
    in a VIE, and AIG s maximum exposure to loss associated
    with these VIEs: 

258    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(a)   

AIG s total maximum exposure to loss on unconsolidated
    VIEs declined from December 31, 2007 as a result of the
    termination of certain of AIGFP s transactions and the
    effects of overall market deterioration.  

(b)   

In 2008, AIG made revisions to the presentation of assets and
    liabilities of unconsolidated VIEs to remove previously
    disclosed equity investments in entities that do not meet the
    criteria of a VIE as defined in FIN 46R. The investments
    are classified on the consolidated balance sheet as other
    invested assets. Accordingly, AIG revised the prior period
    presented to conform to the revised presentation.  

(c)   

Includes $1.4 billion and $2.4 billion of assets
    held in an unconsolidated SIV sponsored by AIGFP in 2008 and
    2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    AIGFP s invested assets included $0.6 billion and
    $1.7 billion, respectively, of securities purchased under
    agreements to resell, commercial paper and medium-term and
    capital notes issued by this entity.  

Balance
    Sheet Classification  

AIG s interest in the assets and liabilities of
    consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs were classified on
    AIG s consolidated balance sheet as follows: 

AIG enters into various arrangements with VIEs in the normal
    course of business. AIG s insurance companies are involved
    with VIEs primarily as passive investors in debt securities
    (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. Through
    its Financial Services and Asset Management operations, AIG has
    participated in arrangements with VIEs that included designing
    and structuring entities, warehousing and managing the
    collateral of the entities, and entering into insurance, credit
    and derivative transactions with the VIEs.

Real
    Estate and Investment Funds   

AIG Investments, through AIG Global Real Estate, is an investor
    in various real estate investments, some of which are VIEs.
    These investments are typically with unaffiliated third-party
    developers via a partnership or limited liability company
    structure. The VIE s activities consist of the development
    or redevelopment of commercial and residential real estate.
    AIG s involvement varies from being a passive equity
    investor or finance provider to actively managing the activities
    of the VIE.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    259 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In certain instances, AIG Investments acts as the investment
    manager of an investment fund, private equity fund or hedge fund
    and is responsible for carrying out the investment mandate of
    the VIE. AIG s insurance operations participate as passive
    investors in the equity issued primarily by third-party-managed
    hedge and private equity funds and some AIG Investments managed
    funds. AIG s insurance operations typically are not
    involved in the design or establishment of VIEs, nor do they
    actively participate in the management of VIEs.

Commercial
    Paper Conduit   

AIGFP is the primary beneficiary of Curzon Funding LLC, an
    asset-backed commercial paper conduit to third parties, the
    assets of which serve as collateral for the conduit s
    obligations. During 2008, the entity issued $6.8 billion of
    commercial paper and participated in the CPFF.

CLOs/CDOs   

AIGFP has invested in CDOs, and similar structures, which can be
    cash-based or synthetic and are actively or passively managed.
    AIGFP s role is generally limited to that of an investor.
    It does not manage such structures.

In certain instances, AIG Investments acts as the collateral
    manager of a CDO or collateralized loan obligation (CLO). In CDO
    and CLO transactions, AIG establishes a trust or other special
    purpose entity that purchases a portfolio of assets such as bank
    loans, corporate debt, or non-performing credits and issues
    trust certificates or debt securities that represent interests
    in the portfolio of assets. These transactions can be cash-based
    or synthetic and are actively or passively managed. The
    management fees that AIG Investments earns as collateral manager
    are not material to AIG s consolidated financial
    statements. Certain AIG insurance companies also invest in these
    CDOs and CLOs. AIG combines variable interests (e.g. management,
    performance fees and debt or equity securities) held through its
    various operating subsidiaries in evaluating the need for
    consolidation. The CDOs in which AIG holds an ownership interest
    are further described in Note 5.

Affordable
    Housing Partnerships   

SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, Inc. (SAAHP) organizes
    and invests in limited partnerships that develop and operate
    affordable housing qualifying for federal tax credits, and a few
    market rate properties across the United States. The general
    partners in the operating partnerships are almost exclusively
    unaffiliated third-party developers. AIG does not consolidate an
    operating partnership if the general partner is an unaffiliated
    person. Through approximately 1,200 partnerships, SAAHP has
    invested in developments with approximately 157,000 apartment
    units nationwide, and has syndicated over $7 billion in
    partnership equity since 1991 to other investors who will
    receive, among other benefits, tax credits under certain
    sections of the Internal Revenue Code. The operating income of
    SAAHP is reported, along with other SunAmerica partnership
    income, as a component of AIG s Asset Management segment.

Maiden
    Lane Interests   

ML II  

On December 12, 2008, certain AIG wholly owned life
    insurance companies sold all of their undivided interests in a
    pool of $39.3 billion face amount of RMBS to ML II, whose
    sole member is the NY Fed. AIG has a significant variable
    economic interest in ML II, which is a VIE. See Note 5 for
    details of AIG s agreement regarding ML II.

ML III  

On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into the ML III Agreement
    with the NY Fed, ML III, and The Bank of New York Mellon, which
    established arrangements, through ML III, to fund the purchase
    of multi-sector CDOs underlying or related to CDS written by AIG
    Financial Products Corp. in connection with the termination of
    such CDS. Concurrently, AIG Financial Products Corp s
    counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to terminate

260    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

those CDS transactions relating to the multi-sector CDOs
    purchased from them. AIG has a significant variable interest in
    ML III, which is a VIE. See Note 5 for details of
    AIG s agreement regarding ML III.

Other
    Asset Accounts   

Structured
    Investment Vehicle  

In 2007, AIGFP sponsored Nightingale Finance LLC, its only
    structured investment vehicle (SIV), that invests in variable
    rate, investment-grade debt securities, the majority of which
    are asset-backed securities. AIGFP has an obligation to support
    the SIV by purchasing commercial paper or providing repurchase
    financing to the extent that the SIV is unable to finance itself
    in the open market. The SIV meets the definition of a VIE
    because it does not have sufficient equity to operate without
    subordinated capital notes, which serve as equity even though
    they are legally debt instruments. The capital notes absorb
    losses prior to the senior debt. During 2008, AIGFP s
    interest in the SIV was reduced to $150 million of
    investments in its medium term notes and $406 million of
    securities purchased under agreement to resell, primarily due to
    the issuance of $1.1 billion of commercial paper as a
    result of its participation in the NY Fed s CPFF in October
    2008. AIGFP did not own a material loss-absorbing variable
    interest in the SIV at December 31, 2008 and, therefore, is
    not the primary beneficiary.

Qualifying
    Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs)  

AIG sponsors three QSPEs that issue securities backed by
    consumer loans collateralized by individual life insurance
    assets. As of December 31, 2008, AIG s maximum
    exposure, representing the carrying value of the consumer loans,
    was $854 million and the total VIE assets for these
    entities was $2.9 billion. AIG records the maximum exposure
    as finance receivables and, in accordance with SFAS 140,
    does not consolidate the total VIE assets of these entities.

RMBS,
    CMBS and Other ABS   

AIG is a passive investor in RMBS, CMBS and other ABS primarily
    issued by domestic entities that are typically structured as
    QSPEs. AIG does not sponsor or transfer assets to the entities
    and was not involved in the design of the entities; as such, AIG
    has not included these entities in the above table. As the
    non-sponsor and non-transferor, AIG does not have the
    information needed to conclusively verify that these entities
    are QSPEs. AIG s maximum exposure is limited to its
    investment in securities issued by these entities and AIG is not
    the primary beneficiary of the overall entity activities. As
    further discussed in Note 5, the fair value of AIG s
    investment in RMBS, CMBS and CDO/ABS was $59.6 billion and
    $134.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

10.    

Derivatives
    and Hedge Accounting  

AIG uses derivatives and other financial instruments as part of
    its financial risk management programs and as part of its
    investment operations. AIGFP has also transacted in derivatives
    as a dealer.

Derivatives, as defined in FAS 133, are financial
    arrangements among two or more parties with returns linked to or
     derived  from some underlying equity, debt, commodity
    or other asset, liability, or foreign exchange rate or other
    index or the occurrence of a specified payment event. Derivative
    payments may be based on interest rates, exchange rates, prices
    of certain securities, commodities, or financial or commodity
    indices or other variables. Derivatives are reflected at fair
    value on the balance sheet in  Unrealized gain on swaps,
    options and forward transactions  and  Unrealized loss
    on swaps, options and forward contracts. 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    261 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities on the
    consolidated balances sheet were as follows: 

AIGFP
    Derivatives  

AIGFP enters into derivative transactions to mitigate risk in
    its exposures (interest rates, currencies, commodities, credit
    and equities) arising from its transactions. In most cases,
    AIGFP did not hedge its exposures related to the credit default
    swaps it had written. As a dealer, AIGFP structured and entered
    into derivative transactions to meet the needs of counterparties
    who may be seeking to hedge certain aspects of such
    counterparties  operations or obtain a desired financial
    exposure.

AIGFP s derivative transactions involving interest rate
    swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed and
    floating rate interest payment obligations without the exchange
    of the underlying notional amounts. AIGFP typically became a
    principal in the exchange of interest payments between the
    parties and, therefore, is exposed to counterparty credit risk
    and may be exposed to loss, if counterparties default. Currency,
    commodity, and equity swaps are similar to interest rate swaps,
    but involve the exchange of specific currencies or cashflows
    based on the underlying commodity, equity securities or indices.
    Also, they may involve the exchange of notional amounts at the
    beginning and end of the transaction. Swaptions are options
    where the holder has the right but not the obligation to enter
    into a swap transaction or cancel an existing swap transaction.

AIGFP follows a policy of minimizing interest rate, currency,
    commodity, and equity risks associated with securities available
    for sale by entering into internal offsetting positions, on a
    security by security basis within its derivatives portfolio,
    thereby offsetting a significant portion of the unrealized
    appreciation and depreciation. In addition, to reduce its credit
    risk, AIGFP has entered into credit derivative transactions with
    respect to $635 million of securities to economically hedge
    its credit risk. As previously discussed, these economic offsets
    did not meet the hedge accounting requirements of FAS 133
    and, therefore, are recorded in Other income in the Consolidated
    Statement of Income.

Notional amount represents a standard of measurement of the
    volume of swaps business of AIGFP. Notional amount is not a
    quantification of market risk or credit risk and is not recorded
    on the consolidated balance sheet. Notional amounts generally
    represent those amounts used to calculate contractual cash flows
    to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for certain
    contracts such as currency swaps.

The timing and the amount of cash flows relating to AIGFP s
    foreign exchange forwards and exchange traded futures and
    options contracts are determined by each of the respective
    contractual agreements.

262    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the notional amounts by
    remaining maturity of AIGFP interest rate, credit default and
    currency swaps and swaptions derivatives portfolio: 

(a)   

Notional amount is not representative of either market risk
    or credit risk and is not recorded in the consolidated balance
    sheet.  

(b)   

Netted in the notional amount at December 31, 2008 is
    $5.5 billion of gross notional amount where credit
    protection was both purchased and sold on the same
    underlying.  

Futures and forward contracts are contracts that obligate the
    holder to sell or purchase foreign currencies, commodities or
    financial indices in which the seller/purchaser agrees to
    make/take delivery at a specified future date of a specified
    instrument, at a specified price or yield. Options are contracts
    that allow the holder of the option to purchase or sell the
    underlying commodity, currency or index at a specified price and
    within, or at, a specified period of time. As a writer of
    options, AIGFP generally receives an option premium and then
    manages the risk of any unfavorable change in the value of the
    underlying commodity, currency or index by entering into
    offsetting transactions with third-party market participants.
    Risks arise as a result of movements in current market prices
    from contracted prices, and the potential inability of the
    counterparties to meet their obligations under the contracts.

The following table presents AIGFP futures, forward and
    option contracts portfolio by maturity and type of
    derivative: 

AIGFP
    Hedging Program  

During 2007, AIGFP designated certain interest rate swaps as
    fair value hedges of the benchmark interest rate risk on certain
    of its interest bearing financial assets and liabilities. In
    these hedging relationships, AIG hedged its fixed rate available
    for sale securities and fixed rate borrowings. AIGFP also
    designated foreign currency forward contracts as fair value
    hedges for changes in spot foreign exchange rates of its
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated available for sale debt securities. Under these
    strategies, all or portions of individual or multiple
    derivatives could be designated against a single hedged item.

At inception of each hedging relationship, AIGFP performed and
    documented its prospective assessments of hedge effectiveness to
    demonstrate that the hedge was expected to be highly effective.
    For hedges of interest rate risk, AIGFP used regression analysis
    to demonstrate the hedge was highly effective, while it used the
    periodic dollar

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    263 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

offset method for its foreign currency hedges. AIGFP used the
    periodic dollar offset method to assess whether its hedging
    relationships were highly effective on a retrospective basis.
    The prospective and retrospective assessments were updated on a
    daily basis. The passage of time component of the hedging
    instruments and the forward points on foreign currency hedges
    were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and
    measurement of hedge ineffectiveness. AIGFP did not utilize the
    shortcut, matched terms or equivalent methods to assess hedge
    effectiveness.

The change in fair value of the derivatives that qualified under
    the requirements of FAS 133 as fair value hedges was
    recorded in current period earnings along with the gain or loss
    on the hedged item for the hedged risks. For interest rate
    hedges, the adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged
    items were amortized into income using the effective yield
    method over the remaining life of the hedged item. Amounts
    excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were
    recognized in current period earnings. For the year ended
    December 31, 2007, AIGFP recognized net losses of
    $0.7 million in earnings, representing hedge
    ineffectiveness, and also recognized net losses of
    $456 million related to the portion of the hedging
    instruments excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

Since its election of the Fair Value Option under SFAS 159
    on January 1, 2008, AIGFP no longer designates any
    derivatives as hedging relationships qualifying for hedge
    accounting under FAS 133 under this hedging program.

For the year ended December 31, 2006. AIGFP did not
    designate any derivatives as hedging relationships under
    FAS 133.

AIG
    Hedging Intermediated by AIGFP  

In 2008 and 2007, AIG designated certain AIGFP derivatives as
    either fair value or cash flow hedges of certain debt issued by
    AIG, Inc. (including MIP), ILFC and AGF. The fair value hedges
    included (i) interest rate swaps that were designated as
    hedges of the change in the fair value of fixed rate debt
    attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate and
    (ii) foreign currency swaps designated as hedges of the
    change in fair value of foreign currency denominated debt
    attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates
     and/or  the
    benchmark interest rate. With respect to the cash flow hedges,
    (i) interest rate swaps were designated as hedges of the
    changes in cash flows on floating rate debt attributable to
    changes in the benchmark interest rate, and (ii) foreign
    currency swaps were designated as hedges of changes in cash
    flows on foreign currency denominated debt attributable to
    changes in the benchmark interest rate and foreign exchange
    rates.

AIG assesses, both at the hedge s inception and on an
    ongoing basis, whether the derivatives used in hedging
    transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair
    values or cash flows of hedged items. Regression analysis is
    employed to assess the effectiveness of these hedges both on a
    prospective and retrospective basis. AIG does not utilize the
    shortcut, matched terms or equivalent methods to assess hedge
    effectiveness.

The change in fair value of derivatives designated and effective
    as fair value hedges along with the gain or loss on the hedged
    item are recorded in current period earnings. Upon
    discontinuation of hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment
    to the carrying value of the hedged item resulting from changes
    in the benchmark interest rate or exchange rate is amortized
    into income using the effective yield method over the remaining
    life of the hedged item. Amounts excluded from the assessment of
    hedge effectiveness are recognized in current period earnings.
    During the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, AIG
    recognized a loss of $61 million and $1 million,
    respectively, in earnings related to the ineffective portion of
    the hedging instruments. During the year ended December 31,
    2008 and 2007, AIG also recognized gains of $17 million and
    $3 million, respectively, related to the change in the
    hedging instruments forward points excluded from the assessment
    of hedge effectiveness.

The effective portion of the change in fair value of a
    derivative qualifying as a cash flow hedge is recorded in
    Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until earnings
    are affected by the variability of cash flows in the hedged
    item. The ineffective portion of these hedges is recorded in net
    realized capital gains (losses). AIG recognized losses of
    $13 million and gains of $1 million in earnings
    representing hedge ineffectiveness in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. At December 31, 2008, $115 million of
    the deferred net loss in Accumulated other

264    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

comprehensive income is expected to be recognized in earnings
    during the next 12 months. All components of the
    derivatives  gains and losses were included in the
    assessment of hedge effectiveness. There were no instances of
    the discontinuation of hedge accounting in 2008 and 2007.

AIGFP
    Written Super Senior and Single Name Credit Default
    Swaps  

AIGFP entered into credit derivative transactions in the
    ordinary course of its business, with the intention of earning
    revenue on credit exposure in an unfunded form. In the majority
    of AIGFP s credit derivative transactions, AIGFP sold
    credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt
    securities. Generally, AIGFP provides such credit protection on
    a  second loss  basis, meaning that AIGFP would incur
    credit losses only after a shortfall of principal
     and/or 
    interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected
    loans and debt securities, exceeds a specified threshold amount
    or level of  first losses. 

Typically, the credit risk associated with a designated
    portfolio of loans or debt securities has been tranched into
    different layers of risk, which are then analyzed and rated by
    the credit rating agencies. At origination, there is usually an
    equity layer covering the first credit losses in respect of the
    portfolio up to a specified percentage of the total portfolio,
    and then successive layers ranging generally from a BBB-rated
    layer to one or more AAA-rated layers. A significant majority of
    AIGFP transactions were rated by rating agencies have risk
    layers or tranches rated AAA at origination and are immediately
    junior to the threshold level above which AIGFP s payment
    obligation would generally arise. In transactions that were not
    rated, AIGFP applied equivalent risk criteria for setting the
    threshold level for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk
    layer assumed by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio
    of loans or debt securities in these transactions is often
    called the  super senior  risk layer, defined as a
    layer of credit risk senior to one or more risk layers rated AAA
    by the credit rating agencies, or if the transaction is not
    rated, structured to the equivalent thereto. The expected
    weighted average maturity of AIGFP s super senior credit
    derivative portfolios as of December 31, 2008 was
    0.7 years for the Regulatory Capital Corporate portfolio,
    1.2 years for the Regulatory Capital Residential Mortgage
    portfolio, 7.8 years for the Regulatory Capital Other
    portfolio, 3.7 years for the Corporate Arbitrage portfolio
    and 6.0 years for the Multi-Sector CDO portfolio.

The net notional amount, fair value of derivative liability
    and unrealized market valuation loss of the AIGFP super senior
    credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps
    written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital
    relief transactions, by asset class were as follows: 

(a)   

There were no unrealized market valuation losses in 2006.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    265 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(b)   

Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural
    subordination below the covered tranches.  

(c)   

Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of
    counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral
    in accordance with FIN 39.  

(d)   

Includes credit valuation adjustment gains of
    $185 million in 2008 representing the positive effect of
    offsetting AIG s widening credit spreads on the valuation
    of the derivatives liabilities. AIGFP began reflecting this
    valuation adjustment as a result of the adoption of
    SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008. Prior to January 1,
    2008, a credit valuation adjustment was not reflected in the
    valuation of AIGFP s liabilities.  

(e)   

During 2008, a European RMBS regulatory capital relief
    transaction was not terminated as expected when it no longer
    provided regulatory capital relief to the counterparty as a
    result of arbitrage opportunities arising from its unique
    attributes and the counterparty s access to a particular
    funding source.  

(f)   

In connection with the terminations of CDS transactions in
    respect of the ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products
    Corp. paid $32.5 billion through the surrender of
    collateral previously posted (net of the $2.5 billion
    received pursuant to the shortfall agreement), of which
    $2.5 billion (included in Other income (loss)) is related
    to certain 2a-7 Put transactions written on multi-sector CDOs
    purchased by ML III.  

(g)   

Includes $1.5 billion of credit default swaps written on
    the super senior tranches of CLOs as of December 31,
    2008.  

(h)   

Includes offsetting purchased CDS of $2.0 billion and
    $2.7 billion in net notional amount at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.  

At December 31, 2008, all outstanding CDS transactions for
    regulatory capital purposes and the majority of the arbitrage
    portfolio have cash-settled structures in respect of a basket of
    reference obligations, where AIGFP s payment obligations
    may be triggered by payment shortfalls, bankruptcy and certain
    other events such as write-downs of the value of underlying
    assets. For the remainder of the CDS transactions in respect of
    the arbitrage portfolio, AIGFP s payment obligations are
    triggered by the occurrence of a credit event under a single
    reference security, and performance is limited to a single
    payment by AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the
    counterparty of the reference security. By contrast, at
    December 31, 2007, under the large majority of CDS
    transactions in respect of multi-sector CDOs, AIGFP s
    payment obligations were triggered by the occurrence of a
    non-payment event under a single reference CDO security, and
    performance was limited to a single payment by AIGFP in return
    for physical delivery by the counterparty of the reference
    security.

A total of $234.4 billion (consisting of corporate loans
    and prime residential mortgages) in net notional exposure of
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio as of
    December 31, 2008 represented derivatives written for
    financial institutions, principally in Europe, for the purpose
    of providing regulatory capital relief rather than for arbitrage
    purposes. In exchange for a periodic fee, the counterparties
    receive credit protection with respect to a portfolio of
    diversified loans they own, thus reducing their minimum capital
    requirements. These CDS transactions were structured with early
    termination rights for counterparties allowing them to terminate
    these transactions at no cost to AIGFP at a certain period of
    time or upon a regulatory event such as the implementation of
    Basel II. During 2008, $99.7 billion in net notional amount
    was terminated or matured. Through February 18, 2009, AIGFP
    has also received formal termination notices for an additional
    $26.5 billion in net notional amount with effective
    termination dates in 2009.

The regulatory capital relief CDS transactions require cash
    settlement and, other than for collateral posting, AIGFP is
    required to make a payment in connection with a regulatory
    capital relief transaction only if realized credit losses in
    respect of the underlying portfolio exceed AIGFP s
    attachment point.

The super senior tranches of these CDS transactions continue to
    be supported by high levels of subordination, which, in most
    instances, have increased since origination. The weighted
    average subordination supporting the European residential
    mortgage and corporate loan referenced portfolios at
    December 31, 2008 was 12.7 percent and
    18.3 percent, respectively. The highest level of realized
    losses to date in any single residential mortgage and corporate
    loan pool was 2.1 percent and 0.42 percent,
    respectively. The corporate loan transactions are each comprised
    of several hundred secured and unsecured loans diversified by
    industry and, in some instances, by country, and have per-issuer
    concentration limits. Both types of transactions generally allow
    some substitution and

266    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

replenishment of loans, subject to defined constraints, as older
    loans mature or are prepaid. These replenishment rights
    generally mature within the first few years of the trade, after
    which the proceeds of any prepaid or maturing loans are applied
    first to the super senior tranche (sequentially), thereby
    increasing the relative level of subordination supporting the
    balance of AIGFP s super senior CDS exposure.

Given the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the
    level of subordination and the expectation that counterparties
    will terminate these transactions prior to their maturity, AIGFP
    does not expect that it will be required to make payments
    pursuant to the contractual terms of these transactions.

A total of $63.1 billion and $148.6 billion in net
    notional exposure on AIGFP s super senior credit default
    swaps as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are
    arbitrage-motivated transactions written on multi-sector CDOs or
    designated pools of investment grade senior unsecured corporate
    debt or CLOs.

As described in Note 4, the ML III transaction eliminated
    the vast majority of the super senior multi-sector CDO CDS
    exposure.

The outstanding multi-sector CDO CDS portfolio at
    December 31, 2008 were written on CDO transactions that
    generally held a concentration of RMBS, CMBS and inner CDO
    securities. Approximately $7.4 billion net notional amount
    (fair value liability of $4.0 billion) of this portfolio
    was written on super senior multi-sector CDOs that contain some
    level of sub-prime RMBS collateral, with a concentration in the
    2005 and earlier vintages of sub-prime RMBS. AIGFP s
    portfolio also included both high grade and mezzanine CDOs.

The majority of multi-sector CDO CDS transactions require cash
    settlement and, other than for collateral posting, AIGFP is
    required to make a payment in connection with such transactions
    only if realized credit losses in respect of the underlying
    portfolio exceed AIGFP s attachment point. In the remainder
    of the portfolio, AIGFP s payment obligations are triggered
    by the occurrence of a credit event under a single reference
    security, and performance is limited to a single payment by
    AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the counterparty of the
    reference security.

Included in the multi-sector CDO portfolio are
    maturity-shortening puts that allow the holders of the
    securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as
    short-term eligible
     2a-7 
    investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940
     (2a-7  Puts).
    Holders of securities are required, in certain circumstances, to
    tender their securities to the issuer at par. If an
    issuer s remarketing agent is unable to resell the
    securities so tendered, AIGFP must purchase the securities at
    par as long as the security has not experienced a payment
    default or certain bankruptcy events with respect to the issuer
    of such security have not occurred. At December 31, 2008
    and 2007,
     2a-7 Puts 
    with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion and
    $6.5 billion, respectively, were outstanding.

$252 million of the 2008 amount may be exercised in 2009
    and ML III has agreed to not sell the multi-sector CDOs in 2009
    and to either not exercise its put option on such multi-sector
    CDOs or to simultaneously exercise their par put option with a
    par purchase of the multi-sector CDO securities. In exchange,
    AIG Financial Products Corp. agreed to pay to ML III the
    consideration that it received for providing the put protection.

The corporate arbitrage portfolio consists principally of CDS
    transactions written on portfolios of senior unsecured corporate
    obligations that were generally rated investment grade at
    inception of the CDS. These CDS transactions require cash
    settlement. Also, included in this portfolio are CDS
    transactions with a net notional of $1.5 billion written on
    the senior part of the capital structure of CLOs, which require
    cash settlement upon the occurrence of a credit event.

Certain of the super senior credit default swaps provide the
    counterparties with an additional termination right if
    AIG s rating level falls to BBB or Baa2. At that level,
    counterparties to the CDS transactions with a net notional
    amount of $38.6 billion at December 31, 2008 have the
    right to terminate the transactions early. If counterparties
    exercise this right, the contracts provide for the
    counterparties to be compensated for the cost to replace the
    transactions, or an amount reasonably determined in good faith
    to estimate the losses the counterparties would incur as a
    result of the termination of the transactions.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    267 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Given the level of uncertainty in estimating both the number of
    counterparties who may elect to exercise their right to
    terminate and the payment that may be triggered in connection
    with any such exercise, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the
    aggregate amount that it would be required to pay under the
    super senior credit default swaps in the event of any credit
    rating downgrade below AIG s current ratings.

Due to long-term maturities of the CDS in the arbitrage
    portfolio, AIG is unable to make reasonable estimates of the
    periods during which any payments would be made. However, the
    net notional amount represents the maximum exposure to loss on
    the super senior credit default swap portfolio.

Most of AIGFP s credit default swaps are subject to
    collateral posting provisions, which typically are governed by
    International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA)
    Master Agreements and Credit Support Annexes. These provisions
    differ among counterparties and asset classes. Although AIGFP
    has collateral posting obligations associated with both
    regulatory capital relief transactions and arbitrage
    transactions, the large majority of these obligations to date
    have been associated with arbitrage transactions in respect of
    multi-sector CDOs.

AIGFP has received collateral calls from counterparties in
    respect of certain super senior credit default swaps, of which a
    large majority relate to multi-sector CDOs. To a lesser extent,
    AIGFP has also received collateral calls in respect of certain
    super senior credit default swaps entered into by counterparties
    for regulatory capital relief purposes and in respect of
    corporate arbitrage.

The amount of future collateral posting requirements is a
    function of AIG s credit ratings, the rating of the
    reference obligations and any further decline in the market
    value of the relevant reference obligations, with the latter
    being the most significant factor. While a high level of
    correlation exists between the amount of collateral posted and
    the valuation of these contracts in respect of the arbitrage
    portfolio, a similar relationship does not exist with respect to
    the regulatory capital portfolio given the nature of how the
    amount of collateral for these transactions is determined. Given
    the severe market disruption, lack of observable data and the
    uncertainty regarding the potential effects on market prices of
    measures recently undertaken by the federal government to
    address the credit market disruption, AIGFP is unable to
    reasonably estimate the amounts of collateral that it may be
    required to post.

Collateral amounts under Master Agreements may be netted against
    one another where the counterparties are each exposed to one
    another in respect of different transactions. Actual collateral
    postings with respect to Master Agreements may be affected by
    other agreed terms, including threshold and independent amounts,
    that may increase or decrease the amount of collateral posted.

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007 the amount of collateral
    postings with respect to AIGFP s super senior credit
    default swap portfolio (prior to offsets for other transactions)
    was $8.8 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively.

AIGFP has also entered into credit default swap contracts
    referencing single-name exposures written on corporate, index,
    and asset-backed credits, with the intention of earning spread
    income on credit exposure in an unfunded form. Some of these
    transactions were entered into as part of a long short strategy
    allowing AIGFP to earn the net spread between CDS they wrote and
    ones they purchased.

As of December 31, 2008, the notional of written CDS
    contracts was $6.3 billion, with an average credit rating
    of BBB. AIGFP has hedged these exposures by purchasing
    offsetting CDS contracts of $3.0 billion in net notional
    amount with identical reference obligations. The net unhedged
    position of approximately $3.3 billion represents the
    maximum exposure to loss on these CDS contacts. The average
    maturity of the written CDS contracts is 4 years. As of
    December 31, 2008, the fair value (which represents the
    carrying value) of the portfolio of CDS was $(1.0) billion.

Upon a triggering event (e.g., a default) with respect to the
    underlying credit, AIGFP would normally have the option to
    settle the position through an auction process (cash settle) or
    pay the notional of the contract to the counterparty in exchange
    for a bond issued by the underlying credit (physical settle).

AIGFP transacted these written CDS contracts under ISDA
    agreements. The majority of these ISDA agreements include credit
    support annex provisions, which provide for collateral postings
    at various ratings and threshold levels. At December 31,
    2008, AIGFP had posted $1.2 billion of collateral under
    these contracts.

268    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Non-AIGFP
    Derivatives  

AIG and its subsidiaries (other than AIGFP) also use derivatives
    and other instruments as part of their financial risk management
    programs. Interest rate derivatives (such as interest rate
    swaps) are used to manage interest rate risk associated with
    investments in fixed income securities, commercial paper
    issuances, medium- and long-term note offerings, and other
    interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. In addition,
    foreign exchange derivatives (principally cross currency swaps,
    forwards and options) are used to economically mitigate risk
    associated with
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated debt, net capital exposures and foreign exchange
    transactions. The derivatives are effective economic hedges of
    the exposures they are meant to offset.

In addition to hedging activities, AIG also uses derivative
    instruments with respect to investment operations, which
    include, among other things, credit default swaps, and
    purchasing investments with embedded derivatives, such as equity
    linked notes and convertible bonds. All changes in the fair
    value of these derivatives are recorded in earnings. AIG
    bifurcates an embedded derivative where: (i) the economic
    characteristics of the embedded instruments are not clearly and
    closely related to those of the remaining components of the
    financial instrument; (ii) the contract that embodies both
    the embedded derivative instrument and the host contract is not
    remeasured at fair value; and (iii) a separate instrument
    with the same terms as the embedded instrument meets the
    definition of a derivative under FAS 133.

Matched
    Investment Program Written Credit Default Swaps  

The Matched Investment Program (MIP) has entered into CDS
    contracts as a writer of protection, with the intention of
    earning spread income on credit exposure in an unfunded form.
    The portfolio of CDS contracts are single-name exposures and, at
    inception, are predominantly high grade corporate credits.

The MIP invested in written CDS contracts through an affiliate
    which then transacts directly with unaffiliated third parties
    under ISDA agreements. As of December 31, 2008, the
    notional amount of written CDS contracts was $4.1 billion
    with an average credit rating of BBB+. The average maturity of
    the written CDS contracts is March 2012, or 3.3 years. As
    of December 31, 2008, the fair value (which represents the
    carrying value) of the MIP s written CDS was
    $(351) million.

The majority of the ISDA agreements include credit support annex
    provisions, which provide for collateral postings at various
    ratings and threshold levels. At December 31, 2008,
    $128.9 million of collateral was posted for CDS contracts
    related to the MIP. The notional amount represents the maximum
    exposure to loss on the written CDS contracts. However, due to
    the average investment grade rating and expected default
    recovery rates, actual losses are expected to be less. AIG
    Investments, as investment manager for MIP, manages the credit
    exposure through its corporate credit risk process.

Upon a triggering event (e.g., a default) with respect to the
    underlying credit, the MIP would normally have the option to
    settle the position through an auction process (cash settlement)
    or pay the notional amount of the contract to the counterparty
    in exchange for a bond issued by the underlying credit (physical
    settlement).

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    269 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

11.    

Liability
    for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense and Future
    policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance
    contracts and policyholder contract deposits  

The reconciliation of activity in the liability for unpaid
    claims and claims adjustment expense was as follows: 

(a) Reflects the closing balance with respect to Unibanco
    divested in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the opening balance
    with respect to the acquisitions of W Ba and the Central
    Insurance Co., Ltd. in 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(b) Includes $88 million and $181 million in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, for the general reinsurance operations of
    Transatlantic and, $7 million, $64 million and $103 million of
    losses incurred in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, resulting
    from the 2005 and 2004 catastrophes. 

Discounting
    of Reserves   

At December 31, 2008, AIG s overall General Insurance
    net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of
    $2.57 billion, including tabular and non-tabular
    calculations. The tabular workers  compensation discount is
    calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the
     1979-81 
    Decennial Mortality Table. The non-tabular workers 
    compensation discount is calculated separately for companies
    domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the
    statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies,
    the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the
    companies  own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies,
    the statute has specified discount factors for accident years
    2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate
    and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and
    subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and
    investment yields of the companies.

270    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The analysis of the future policy benefits and policyholder
    contract deposits liabilities was as follows: 

Long duration contract liabilities included in future policy
    benefits, as presented in the preceding table, result primarily
    from life products. Short duration contract liabilities are
    primarily accident and health products. The liability for future
    life policy benefits has been established based upon the
    following assumptions:

Interest rates (exclusive of immediate/terminal funding
    annuities), which vary by territory, year of issuance and
    products, range from 1.0 percent to 11.0 percent
    within the first 20 years. Interest rates on
    immediate/terminal funding annuities are at a maximum of
    11.5 percent and grade to not greater than 6.0 percent.

Mortality and surrender rates are based upon actual experience
    by geographical area modified to allow for variations in policy
    form. The weighted average lapse rate, including surrenders, for
    individual and group life approximated 6.8 percent.

The portions of current and prior net income and of current
    unrealized appreciation of investments that can inure to the
    benefit of AIG are restricted in some cases by the insurance
    contracts and by the local insurance regulations of the
    jurisdictions in which the policies are in force.

Participating life business represented approximately
    15 percent of the gross insurance in force at
    December 31, 2008 and 21 percent of gross premiums and
    other considerations in 2008. The amount of annual dividends to
    be paid is determined locally by the boards of directors.
    Provisions for future dividend payments are computed by
    jurisdiction, reflecting local regulations.

The liability for policyholder contract deposits has been
    established based on the following assumptions:

Interest rates credited on deferred annuities, which vary by
    territory and year of issuance, range from 1.4 percent to,
    including bonuses, 13.0 percent. Less than 1.0 percent
    of the liabilities are credited at a rate greater than
    9.0 percent. Current declared interest rates are generally
    guaranteed to remain in effect for a period of one year though
    some are guaranteed for longer periods. Withdrawal charges
    generally range from zero percent to 12.0 percent grading
    to zero over a period of zero to 15 years.

Domestically, guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) have market
    value withdrawal provisions for any funds withdrawn other than
    benefit responsive payments. Interest rates credited generally
    range from 1.2 percent to 9.0 percent. The vast
    majority of these GICs mature within three years.

Interest rates on corporate life insurance products are
    guaranteed at 4.0 percent and the weighted average rate
    credited in 2008 was 5.0 percent.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    271 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The universal life funds have credited interest rates of
    1.0 percent to 5.8 percent and guarantees ranging from
    1.0 percent to 5.5 percent depending on the year of
    issue. Additionally, universal life funds are subject to
    surrender charges that amount to 13.0 percent of the
    aggregate fund balance grading to zero over a period not longer
    than 20 years.

For variable products and investment contracts, policy values
    are expressed in terms of investment units. Each unit is linked
    to an asset portfolio. The value of a unit increases or
    decreases based on the value of the linked asset portfolio. The
    current liability at any time is the sum of the current unit
    value of all investment units plus any liability for guaranteed
    minimum death or withdrawal benefits.

Certain products are subject to experience adjustments. These
    include group life and group medical products, credit life
    contracts, accident and health insurance contracts/riders
    attached to life policies and, to a limited extent, reinsurance
    agreements with other direct insurers. Ultimate premiums from
    these contracts are estimated and recognized as revenue, and the
    unearned portions of the premiums recorded as liabilities.
    Experience adjustments vary according to the type of contract
    and the territory in which the policy is in force and are
    subject to local regulatory guidance.

12.    

Variable
    Life and Annuity Contracts  

AIG follows Statement of Position
     03-1 
     (SOP 03-1), 
    which requires recognition of a liability for guaranteed minimum
    death benefits and other living benefits related to variable
    annuity and variable life contracts as well as certain
    disclosures for these products.

AIG reports variable contracts through separate accounts when
    investment income and investment gains and losses accrue
    directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the contract
    holder (traditional variable annuities), and the separate
    account qualifies for separate account treatment under
     SOP 03-1. 
    In some foreign jurisdictions, separate accounts are not legally
    insulated from general account creditors and therefore do not
    qualify for separate account treatment under
     SOP 03-1. 
    In such cases, the variable contracts are reported as general
    account contracts even though the policyholder bears the risks
    associated with the performance of the assets. AIG also reports
    variable annuity and life contracts through separate accounts,
    or general accounts when not qualified for separate account
    reporting, when AIG contractually guarantees to the contract
    holder (variable contracts with guarantees) either
    (a) total deposits made to the contract less any partial
    withdrawals plus a minimum return (and in minor instances, no
    minimum returns) (Net Deposits Plus a Minimum Return) or
    (b) the highest contract value attained, typically on any
    anniversary date minus any subsequent withdrawals following the
    contract anniversary (Highest Contract Value Attained). These
    guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of
    death, annuitization, or, in other instances, at specified dates
    during the accumulation period. Such benefits are referred to as
    guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum
    income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits
    (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). For
    AIG, GMDB is by far the most widely offered benefit.

The assets supporting the variable portion of both traditional
    variable annuities and variable contracts with guarantees are
    carried at fair value and reported as Separate account assets
    with an equivalent summary total reported as Separate account
    liabilities when the separate account qualifies for separate
    account treatment under
     SOP 03-1. 
    Assets for separate accounts that do not qualify for separate
    account treatment are reported as trading account assets, and
    liabilities are included in the respective policyholder
    liability account of the general account. Amounts assessed
    against the contract holders for mortality, administrative, and
    other services are included in revenue and changes in
    liabilities for minimum guarantees are included in policyholder
    benefits and claims incurred in the consolidated statement of
    income. Separate account net investment income, net investment
    gains and losses, and the related liability changes are offset
    within the same line item in the consolidated statement of
    income for those accounts that qualify for separate account
    treatment under
     SOP 03-1. 
    Net investment income and gains and losses on trading accounts
    for contracts that do not qualify for separate account treatment
    under
     SOP 03-1 
    are reported in net investment income and are principally offset
    by amounts reported in policyholder benefits and claims incurred.

272    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The vast majority of AIG s exposure on guarantees made
    to variable contract holders arises from GMDB. Details
    concerning AIG s GMDB exposures were as follows: 

(a)   

Included in Policyholder contract deposits in the
    consolidated balance sheet.  

(b)   

Represents the amount of death benefit currently in excess of
    Account value.  

The following summarizes GMDB liabilities for guarantees on
    variable contracts reflected in the general account. 

The GMDB liability is determined each period end by estimating
    the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected
    account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG
    regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional
    liability balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit
    expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that
    earlier assumptions should be revised.

The following assumptions and methodology were used to determine
    the GMDB liability at December 31, 2008:

Data used was up to 1,000 stochastically generated investment
    performance scenarios.

Mean investment performance assumptions ranged from three
    percent to approximately ten percent depending on the block of
    business.

Volatility assumptions ranged from eight percent to
    23 percent depending on the block of business.

Mortality was assumed at between 50 percent and
    103 percent of various life and annuity mortality tables.

For domestic contracts, lapse rates vary by contract type and
    duration and ranged from zero percent to 40 percent. For
    foreign contracts, lapse rates ranged from zero percent to
    15 percent depending on the type of contract.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    273 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

For domestic contracts, the discount rate ranged from
    3.25 percent to 11 percent. For foreign contracts, the
    discount rate ranged from 1.6 percent to seven percent.

In addition to GMDB, AIG s contracts currently include to a
    lesser extent GMIB. The GMIB liability is determined each period
    end by estimating the expected value of the annuitization
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date
    of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG
    periodically evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional
    liability balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit
    expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that
    earlier assumptions should be revised.

AIG contracts currently include GMAV and GMWB benefits. GMAV and
    GMWB considered to be embedded derivatives are recognized at
    fair value through earnings. AIG enters into derivative
    contracts to economically hedge a portion of the exposure that
    arises from GMAV and GMWB.

AIG s total debt outstanding was as follows: 

274    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Maturities of long-term debt, excluding borrowings of
    consolidated investments, are as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    275 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(a)   

Represents structured notes issued AIGFP that are accounted
    for at fair value.  

(b)   

AIG does not guarantee these borrowings.  

(c)   

Reflects future minimum payment for ILFC s borrowing
    under Export Credit Facilities.  

AIG
    (Parent Company)  

(i) Fed Facility:   On September 22,
    2008, AIG entered into the $85 billion Fed Credit Agreement
    and a Guarantee and Pledge Agreement (the Pledge Agreement) with
    the NY Fed.

Pursuant to the Fed Credit Agreement, in consideration for the
    NY Fed s extension of credit under the Fed Facility and the
    payment of $500,000, AIG agreed to issue 100,000 shares of
    Series C Preferred Stock. See Note 15 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the
    Series C Preferred Stock.

On November 9, 2008, AIG and the NY Fed amended the Fed
    Credit Agreement with effect from November 25, 2008. The
    amended Fed Credit Agreement provides, among other things, that
    (i) the total commitment under the Fed Facility following
    the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock is
    $60 billion; (ii) the interest rate payable on
    outstanding borrowings is three-month LIBOR (not less than
    3.5 percent) plus 3.0 percent per annum;
    (iii) the fee payable on undrawn amounts is
    0.75 percent per annum; and (iv) the term of the Fed
    Facility is five years. See Note 15 herein for further
    discussion of the Series D Preferred Stock. At
    December 31, 2008, a total of $40.4 billion was
    outstanding under the Fed Facility, including commitment fees
    and accrued compounding interest of $3.63 billion.

The Fed Facility is secured by pledges of the capital stock and
    assets of certain of AIG s subsidiaries, subject to
    exclusions of certain property not permitted to be pledged under
    the debt agreements of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries and
    AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as well as
    exclusions of assets of regulated subsidiaries, assets of
    foreign subsidiaries and assets of special purpose vehicles. The
    exclusion of the capital stock of certain direct subsidiaries of
    AIG from AIG s pledge ensures that AIG has not pledged all
    or substantially all of its assets to the NY Fed.

AIG has not had access to its traditional sources of long-term
    financing through the public debt market.

(ii) Notes and bonds payable:   On
    August 18, 2008, AIG sold $3.25 billion principal
    amount of senior unsecured notes in a
    Rule 144A/Regulation S offering which bear interest at
    a per annum rate of 8.25 percent and mature in 2018. The
    proceeds from the sale of these notes were used by AIGFP for its
    general corporate purposes, and the notes are included within
     AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable  in the
    preceding tables. AIG has agreed to use commercially reasonable
    efforts to consummate an exchange offer for the notes pursuant
    to an effective registration statement within 360 days of
    the date on which the notes were issued.

As of December 31, 2008, approximately $7.5 billion
    principal amount of senior notes were outstanding under
    AIG s medium-term note program, of which $3.2 billion
    was used for AIG s general corporate purposes,
    $893 million was used by AIGFP (included within  AIGFP
    matched notes bonds and payable  in the preceding tables)
    and $3.4 billion was used to fund the MIP. The maturity
    dates of these notes range from 2009 to 2052. To the extent
    considered appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to
    manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes.

As of December 31, 2008, the equivalent of
    $12.0 billion of notes were outstanding under AIG s
    Euro medium-term note program, of which $9.7 billion were
    used to fund the MIP and the remainder was used for AIG s
    general corporate purposes. The aggregate amount outstanding
    includes a $588 million loss resulting from foreign
    exchange translation into U.S. dollars, of which
    $0.1 million gain relates to notes issued by AIG for
    general corporate purposes and $588 million loss relates to
    notes issued to fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the
    currency exposure arising from its foreign currency denominated
    notes.

276    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG maintains a shelf registration statement in Japan, providing
    for the issuance of up to Japanese Yen 300 billion
    principal amount of senior notes, of which the equivalent of
    $562 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008.

(iii) Junior subordinated debt:   During
    2007 and 2008, AIG issued an aggregate of $12.5 billion of
    junior subordinated debentures denominated in U.S. dollars,
    British Pounds and Euros in eight series of securities. In
    connection with each series of junior subordinated debentures,
    AIG entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (RCC) for the
    benefit of the holders of AIG s 6.25 percent senior
    notes due 2036. The RCCs provide that AIG will not repay,
    redeem, or purchase the applicable series of junior subordinated
    debentures on or before a specified date, unless AIG has
    received qualifying proceeds from the sale of replacement
    capital securities.

In May 2008, AIG raised a total of approximately
    $20 billion through the sale of
    (i) 196,710,525 shares of AIG common stock in a public
    offering at a price per share of $38;
    (ii) 78.4 million Equity Units in a public offering at
    a price per unit of $75; and (iii) $6.9 billion in
    unregistered offerings of junior subordinated debentures in
    three series. The Equity Units and junior subordinated
    debentures receive hybrid equity treatment from the major rating
    agencies under their current policies but are recorded as
    long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet. The Equity
    Units consist of an ownership interest in AIG junior
    subordinated debentures and a stock purchase contract obligating
    the holder of an equity unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to
    sell, a variable number of shares of AIG common stock on three
    dates in 2011 (a minimum of 128,944,480 shares and a
    maximum of 154,738,080 shares, subject to anti-dilution
    adjustments).

AIGFP  

Borrowings under obligations of guaranteed investment
    agreements:   Borrowings under obligations of GIAs,
    which are guaranteed by AIG, are recorded at fair value.
    Obligations may be called at various times prior to maturity at
    the option of the counterparty. Interest rates on these
    borrowings are primarily fixed, vary by maturity, and range up
    to 9.8 percent.

At December 31, 2008, the fair value of securities pledged
    as collateral with respect to these obligations approximated
    $8.4 billion.

AIGFP s debt, excluding GIAs, outstanding are as
    follows: 

AIGFP economically hedges its notes and bonds. AIG guarantees
    all of AIGFP s debt.

Hybrid financial instrument
    liabilities:   AIGFP s notes and bonds include
    structured debt instruments whose payment terms are linked to
    one or more financial or other indices (such as an equity index
    or commodity index or another measure that is not considered to
    be clearly and closely related to the debt instrument). These
    notes contain embedded derivatives that otherwise would be
    required to be accounted for separately under FAS 133. Upon
    AIG s early adoption of FAS 155, AIGFP elected the
    fair value option for these notes. The notes that are accounted
    for using the fair value option are reported separately under
    hybrid financial instrument liabilities at fair value.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    277 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIGLH  

At December 31, 2008, AIGLH notes and bonds payable
    aggregating $798 million were outstanding with maturity
    dates ranging from 2010 to 2029 at interest rates from
    6.625 percent to 7.50 percent. AIG guarantees the
    notes and bonds of AIGLH.

Liabilities
    Connected to Trust Preferred Stock  

AIGLH issued Junior Subordinated Debentures (liabilities) to
    certain trusts established by AIGLH, which represent the sole
    assets of the trusts. The trusts have no independent operations.
    The trusts issued mandatory redeemable preferred stock to
    investors. The interest terms and payment dates of the
    liabilities correspond to those of the preferred stock.
    AIGLH s obligations with respect to the liabilities and
    related agreements, when taken together, constitute a full and
    unconditional guarantee by AIGLH of payments due on the
    preferred securities. AIG guarantees the obligations of AIGLH
    with respect to these liabilities and related agreements. The
    liabilities are redeemable, under certain conditions, at the
    option of AIGLH on a proportionate basis.

At December 31, 2008, the preferred stock outstanding
    consisted of $300 million liquidation value of
    8.5 percent preferred stock issued by American General
    Capital II in June 2000, $500 million liquidation
    value of 8.125 percent preferred stock issued by American
    General Institutional Capital B in March 1997, and
    $500 million liquidation value of 7.57 percent
    preferred stock issued by American General Institutional Capital
    A in December 1996.

ILFC  

(i) Notes and bonds payable:   At
    December 31, 2008, notes aggregating $20.1 billion
    were outstanding, consisting of $7.7 billion of term notes,
    $12.4 billion of medium-term notes with maturities ranging
    from 2009 to 2015 and interest rates ranging from
    1.62 percent to 7.95 percent and $1.0 billion of
    junior subordinated debt as discussed below. Notes aggregating
    $4.1 billion are at floating interest rates and the
    remainder are at fixed rates. ILFC enters into swap transactions
    to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these
    notes.

ILFC does not currently have access to its traditional sources
    of long-term or short-term financing through the public debt
    markets. ILFC currently has the capacity under its present
    facilities and indentures to enter into secured financings in
    excess of $5.0 billion.

As a well-known seasoned issuer, ILFC has an effective shelf
    registration statement with the SEC. At December 31, 2008,
    $6.9 billion of debt securities had been issued under this
    registration statement. In addition, ILFC has a Euro medium-term
    note program for $7.0 billion, under which
    $2.3 billion in notes were outstanding at December 31,
    2008. Notes issued under the Euro medium-term note program are
    included in ILFC notes and bonds payable in the preceding table
    of borrowings. ILFC has substantially eliminated the currency
    exposure arising from foreign currency denominated notes by
    hedging the note exposure through swaps.

(ii) Junior subordinated debt:   In
    December 2005, ILFC issued two tranches of junior subordinated
    debt totaling $1.0 billion to underlie trust preferred
    securities issued by a trust sponsored by ILFC. The
    $600 million tranche has a call date of December 21,
    2010 and the $400 million tranche has a call date of
    December 21, 2015. Both tranches mature on
    December 21, 2065. The $600 million tranche has a
    fixed interest rate of 5.90 percent for the first five
    years. The $400 million tranche has a fixed interest rate
    of 6.25 percent for the first ten years. Both tranches have
    interest rate adjustments if the call option is not exercised
    based on a floating quarterly reset rate equal to the initial
    credit spread plus the highest of
     (i) 3-month 
    LIBOR,
     (ii) 10-year 
    constant maturity treasury and
     (iii) 30-year 
    constant maturity treasury.

(iii) Export credit facility:   At
    December 31, 2008, ILFC had $365 million outstanding
    under a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility (ECA) used in
    the purchase of approximately 75 aircraft delivered through
    2001. The interest rate varies from 5.75 percent to
    5.86 percent on these amortizing ten-year borrowings
    depending on the delivery date of the aircraft. The debt is
    collateralized by a pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of
    ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the
    facility. This facility was guaranteed by various European
    Export Credit Agencies.

278    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2008, ILFC had $2.1 billion
    outstanding under a similarly structured ECA under which it may
    borrow up to a maximum of $3.6 billion for aircraft to be
    delivered through May 31, 2009. The facility becomes
    available as the various European Export Credit Agencies provide
    their guarantees for aircraft based on a forward-looking
    calendar, and the interest rate is determined through a bid
    process. The interest rates are either LIBOR-based with spreads
    ranging from (0.04) percent to 0.90 percent or at fixed
    rates ranging from 4.2 percent to 4.7 percent. At
    December 31, 2008, the interest rates of the loans
    outstanding ranged from 2.51 percent to 4.71 percent.
    The debt is collateralized by a pledge of shares of a subsidiary
    of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the
    facility. Borrowings with respect to these facilities are
    included in ILFC s notes and bonds payable in the preceding
    table of borrowings.

Under these Export Credit Facilities, ILFC may be required to
    segregate deposits and maintenance reserves for the financed
    aircraft into separate accounts in connection with certain
    credit rating downgrades. As a result of Moody s
    October 3, 2008 downgrade of ILFC s long-term debt
    rating to Baa1, ILFC received notice from the security trustees
    of the facilities to segregate into separate accounts security
    deposits and maintenance reserves related to aircraft funded
    under the facility. ILFC had 90 days from the date of the
    notice to comply, and subsequent to December 31, 2008, ILFC
    segregated approximately $260 million of deposits and
    maintenance reserves. Funds required to be segregated under the
    facility agreements fluctuate with changes in deposits,
    maintenance reserves and debt maturities related to the aircraft
    funded under the facilities. Further credit rating declines
    could impose additional restrictions under the Export Credit
    Facilities including the requirement to segregate rental
    payments and would require prior consent to withdraw funds from
    the segregated account.

(iv) Bank financings:   From time to time,
    ILFC enters into various bank financings. At December 31,
    2008, the total funded amount was $7.6 billion. The
    financings mature through 2012. The interest rates are
    LIBOR-based, with spreads ranging from 0.30 percent to
    1.625 percent. At December 31, 2008, the interest
    rates ranged from 2.15 percent to 4.36 percent.

AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of ILFC.

AGF  

(i) Notes and bonds payable:   At
    December 31, 2008, notes and bonds aggregating
    $23.1 billion were outstanding with maturity dates ranging
    from 2009 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from
    0.23 percent to 9 percent. AGF has entered into swap
    transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with
    respect to several of these notes and bonds.

(ii) Junior subordinated debt:   At
    December 31, 2008, junior subordinated debentures
    aggregating $349 million were outstanding that mature in
    January 2067. The debentures underlie a series of trust
    preferred securities sold by a trust sponsored by AGF in a
    Rule 144A/Regulation S offering. AGF can redeem the
    debentures at par beginning in January 2017.

AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF but
    has provided a capital support agreement for the benefit of
    AGF s lenders under the AGF
     364-Day 
    Syndicated Facility.

Both ILFC and AGF have drawn the full amount available under
    their revolving credit facilities.

AIG s syndicated facilities contain a covenant requiring
    AIG to maintain total shareholders  equity (calculated on a
    consolidated basis consistent with GAAP) of at least
    $50 billion at all times. If AIG fails to maintain this
    level of total shareholders  equity at any time, it will
    lose access to those facilities. Additionally, if an event of
    default occurs under those facilities, including AIG failing to
    maintain $50 billion of total shareholders  equity at
    any time, which causes the banks to terminate either of those
    facilities, then AIG may be required to collateralize
    approximately

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    279 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$2.7 billion of letters of credit that AIG has obtained for
    the benefit of its insurance subsidiaries so that these
    subsidiaries may obtain statutory recognition of their
    intercompany reinsurance transactions.

Other Notes, Bonds, Loans and Mortgages Payable, consisted of
    the following: 

Commercial
    Paper  

Commercial paper issued and outstanding was as follows: 

(a)   

Excludes $15 million of extendible commercial notes.  

(b)   

Issued in local currencies at prevailing local interest
    rates.  

(c)   

Carried at fair value. 

(d)   

On January 21, 2009, S P downgraded ILFC s
    short-term credit rating and, as a result, ILFC lost access to
    the CPFF.  

At December 31, 2008, AIG did not guarantee the commercial
    paper of any of its subsidiaries other than AIG Funding.

Commercial
    Paper Funding Facility  

AIG is participating in the CPFF. AIG Funding, Curzon Funding
    LLC and Nightingale Finance LLC may issue up to approximately
    $6.9 billion, $7.2 billion and $1.1 billion,
    respectively, of commercial paper under the CPFF. ILFC
    participated in the CPFF at December 31, 2008, and had
    borrowed approximately $1.7 billion under the

280    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

program. On January 21, 2009, S P downgraded
    ILFC s short-term credit rating and, as a result, ILFC
    could no longer participate in the CPFF. The $1.7 billion
    ILFC had borrowed under the CPFF was due and paid on
    January 28, 2009. As of December 31, 2008 and
    February 18, 2009, the other three affiliates had borrowed
    a total of approximately $14.5 billion and
    $14 billion, respectively, under this facility. These AIG
    affiliates are participating under the CPFF s standard
    terms and conditions.

Proceeds from the issuance of the commercial paper under the
    CPFF are used to refinance AIG s outstanding commercial
    paper as it matures, meet other working capital needs and make
    voluntary repayments under the Fed Facility. The voluntary
    repayments of the Fed Facility do not reduce the amount
    available to be borrowed thereunder.

14.    

Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees  

In the normal course of business, various commitments and
    contingent liabilities are entered into by AIG and certain of
    its subsidiaries. In addition, AIG guarantees various
    obligations of certain subsidiaries.

(a)     

Litigation
    and Investigations   

Litigation Arising from Operations.   AIG and
    its subsidiaries, in common with the insurance and financial
    services industries in general, are subject to litigation,
    including claims for punitive damages, in the normal course of
    their business. In AIG s insurance operations, litigation
    arising from claims settlement activities is generally
    considered in the establishment of AIG s liability for
    unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. However, the
    potential for increasing jury awards and settlements makes it
    difficult to assess the ultimate outcome of such litigation.

Various federal, state and foreign regulatory and governmental
    agencies are reviewing certain public disclosures, transactions
    and practices of AIG and its subsidiaries in connection with
    AIG s liquidity problems industry-wide and other inquiries.
    These reviews include inquiries by the SEC and
    U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) with respect to AIG s
    valuation of and disclosures relating to the AIGFP super senior
    credit default swap portfolio and the U.K. Serious Fraud Office
    with respect to the UK operations of AIGFP. AIG has cooperated,
    and will continue to cooperate, in producing documents and other
    information in response to subpoenas and other requests.

In connection with some of the SEC investigations, AIG
    understands that some of its employees have received Wells
    notices and it is possible that additional current and former
    employees could receive similar notices in the future. Under SEC
    procedures, a Wells notice is an indication that the SEC staff
    has made a preliminary decision to recommend enforcement action
    that provides recipients with an opportunity to respond to the
    SEC staff before a formal recommendation is finalized.

Although AIG cannot currently quantify its ultimate liability
    for the unresolved litigation and investigation matters referred
    to below, it is possible that such liability could have a
    material adverse effect on AIG s consolidated financial
    condition, consolidated results of operations or consolidated
    cash flow for an individual reporting period.

Litigation
    Relating to AIGFP s Super Senior Credit Default Swap
    Portfolio  

Securities Actions   Southern District of New
    York.   On May 21, 2008, a purported
    securities fraud class action complaint was filed against AIG
    and certain of its current and former officers and directors in
    the United States District Court for the Southern District of
    New York (the Southern District of New York). The complaint
    alleges that defendants made statements during the period
    May 11, 2007 through May 9, 2008 in press releases,
    AIG s quarterly and year-end filings and during conference
    calls with analysts which were materially false and misleading
    and which artificially inflated the price of AIG s stock.
    The alleged false and misleading statements relate to, among
    other things, unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s
    super senior credit default swap portfolio as a result of severe
    credit market disruption. The complaint alleges claims under
    Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act. Three
    additional purported securities class action complaints were
    subsequently filed in the

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    281 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Southern District of New York, all containing similar
    allegations. One of the additional complaints, filed on
    June 19, 2008, alleges a purported class period of
    November 10, 2006 through June 6, 2008.

On October 9, 2008, a purported securities class action
    complaint was filed in the Southern District of New York on
    behalf of purchasers of AIG s
     7.70 percent Series A-5 
    Junior Subordinated Debentures issued in a registered public
    offering on December 11, 2007 against AIG, certain of its
    current and former officers and directors, and the underwriters
    of the offering. The complaint alleges that defendants made
    statements in AIG s registration statement, prospectus and
    quarterly and year-end filings which were materially false and
    misleading, in violation of Sections 11, 12(a) and 15 of
    the Securities Act of 1933. The claims are based generally on
    the same allegations as the securities fraud class actions
    described above. One additional purported securities class
    action complaint was filed in the Southern District of New York
    on October 27, 2008, containing identical allegations.

On December 4, 2008, a purported securities class action
    complaint was filed in the Southern District of New York on
    behalf of purchasers of various AIG securities issued pursuant
    to three shelf registration statements filed on June 12,
    2003, June 22, 2007, and May 12, 2008, against AIG,
    certain of its current and former officers and directors, and
    the underwriters of the offerings. The complaint alleges that
    defendants made statements in the shelf registration statements,
    and in annual, quarterly and current filings which were
    materially false and misleading in violation of
    Sections 11, 12(a) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933.
    The claims are based generally on the same allegations as the
    securities fraud class actions described above.

On January 15, 2009, a purported securities class action
    complaint was filed in the Southern District of New York on
    behalf of purchasers of AIG Medium-Term Notes,
     Series AIG-FP, 
    which the complaint alleges were offered on a continuous basis
    from November 17, 2006 through April 10, 2008, against
    AIG, certain of its current and former officers and directors,
    and the underwriters of the offerings. The complaint alleges
    that in connection with the offering materials, defendants
    failed to disclose information relevant to the creditworthiness
    of AIG and therefore the value of the notes, making them false
    and misleading in violation of Sections 11, 12(a) and 15 of
    the Securities Act of 1933.

The Court has not yet appointed a lead plaintiff in these
    actions.

ERISA Actions   Southern District of New
    York.   On June 25, 2008, the Company, certain
    of its executive officers and directors, and unnamed members of
    the Company s Retirement Board and Investment Committee
    were named as defendants in two separate, though nearly
    identical, actions filed in the Southern District of New York.
    The actions purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
    all participants in or beneficiaries of certain pension plans
    sponsored by AIG or its subsidiaries (the Plans) during the
    period May 11, 2007 through the present and whose
    participant accounts included investments in the Company s
    common stock. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the
    defendants breached their fiduciary responsibilities to Plan
    participants and their beneficiaries under the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), by:
    (i) failing to prudently and loyally manage the Plans and
    the Plans  assets; (ii) failing to provide complete
    and accurate information to participants and beneficiaries about
    the Company and the value of the Company s stock;
    (iii) failing to monitor appointed Plan fiduciaries and to
    provide them with complete and accurate information; and
    (iv) breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
    The alleged ERISA violations relate to, among other things, the
    defendants  purported failure to monitor
     and/or 
    disclose unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s
    super senior credit default swap portfolio as a result of severe
    credit market disruption. Six additional purported ERISA class
    action complaints were subsequently filed in the Southern
    District of New York, each containing similar allegations. It is
    anticipated that these actions will all be consolidated and that
    the Court will then appoint a lead plaintiff in the consolidated
    action.

Derivative Actions   Southern District of New
    York.   On November 20, 2007, two purported
    shareholder derivative actions were filed in the Southern
    District of New York naming as defendants the then current
    directors of AIG and certain senior officers of AIG and its
    subsidiaries. Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of fiduciary
    duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment, as well
    as violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
     Rule 10b-5 
    promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange
    Act, among other things, in connection with AIG s public
    disclosures regarding its exposure to what the lawsuits describe
    as the subprime market crisis. The

282    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

actions were consolidated as In re American International Group,
    Inc. 2007 Derivative Litigation (the Consolidated 2007
    Derivative Litigation). On February 15, 2008, plaintiffs
    filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging the same causes
    of action. On April 15, 2008, motions to dismiss the action
    were filed on behalf of all defendants. The motions to dismiss
    are pending.

On August 6, 2008, a purported shareholder derivative
    action was filed in the Southern District of New York asserting
    claims on behalf of AIG based generally on the same allegations
    as in the consolidated amended complaint in the Consolidated
    2007 Derivative Litigation.

Derivative Action   Supreme Court of New
    York.   On February 29, 2008, a purported
    shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Supreme Court
    of Nassau County naming as defendants the then current directors
    of AIG and certain former and present senior officers of AIG and
    its subsidiaries. Plaintiff asserts claims for breach of
    fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment
    in connection with AIG s public disclosures regarding its
    exposure to what the complaint describes as the subprime
    mortgage market. On May 19, 2008, defendants filed a motion
    to dismiss or to stay the proceedings in light of the pending
    Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation. The motion is pending.

Derivative Action   Delaware Court of
    Chancery.   On September 17, 2008, a purported
    shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Court of
    Chancery of Delaware naming as defendants certain former and
    present directors and senior officers of AIG and its
    subsidiaries. Plaintiff asserts claims on behalf of nominal
    defendant AIG for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate
    assets, and mismanagement in connection with AIG s public
    disclosures regarding its exposure to the subprime lending
    market. On December 19, 2008, a motion to stay or dismiss
    the action was filed on behalf of defendants. The motion is
    pending.

Derivative Action   Delaware Court of
    Chancery.   On January 15, 2009, a purported
    shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Court of
    Chancery of Delaware naming as defendants certain current
    directors of AIG and Joseph Cassano, the former CEO of AIGFP,
    and asserting claims on behalf of nominal defendant AIGFP. As
    sole shareholder of AIGFP, AIG was also named as a nominal
    defendant. Plaintiff asserts claims against Joseph Cassano for
    breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. The complaint
    alleges that Cassano was responsible for losses suffered by
    AIGFP related to its exposure to subprime-backed credit default
    swaps and collateralized debt obligations and that he concealed
    these losses for his own benefit.

Action by the Starr Foundation   Supreme Court of
    New York.   On May 7, 2008, the Starr
    Foundation filed a complaint in New York State Supreme Court
    against AIG, AIG s former Chief Executive Officer, Martin
    Sullivan, and AIG s then Chief Financial Officer, Steven
    Bensinger, asserting a claim for common law fraud. The complaint
    alleges that the defendants made materially misleading
    statements and omissions concerning alleged multi-billion dollar
    losses in AIG s portfolio of credit default swaps. The
    complaint asserts that if the Starr Foundation had known the
    truth about the alleged losses, it would have sold its remaining
    shares of AIG stock. The complaint alleges that the Starr
    Foundation has suffered damages of at least $300 million.
    On May 30, 2008, a motion to dismiss the complaint was
    filed on behalf of defendants. After a hearing, the complaint
    was dismissed. On December 23, 2008, plaintiff filed a
    notice of appeal.

Canadian Securities Class Action   Ontario
    Superior Court of Justice.   On November 13,
    2008, an application was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of
    Justice for leave to bring a purported securities fraud class
    action against AIG, AIGFP, certain of AIG s current and
    former officers and directors, and the former CEO of AIGFP. If
    the Court grants the application, a class plaintiff will be
    permitted to file a statement of claim against AIG. The proposed
    statement of claim would assert a class period of
    November 10, 2006 through September 16, 2008, and
    would allege that during this period defendants made false and
    misleading statements and omissions in quarterly and annual
    reports and during oral presentations in violation of the
    Ontario Securities Act.

Litigation
    Relating to the Credit Agreement with the NY Fed  

On November 4, 2008, a purported class action was filed in
    the Delaware Court of Chancery naming as defendants AIG,
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy, and
    certain current and former AIG directors. Plaintiff alleges
    violations of Delaware General Corporation Law
    Section 242(b)(2) and breaches of

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    283 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

fiduciary duty in connection with the Series C Preferred
    Stock to be issued pursuant to the Fed Credit Agreement to the
    trust created for the sole benefit of the United States
    Treasury. Plaintiff sought an order declaring that the
    Series C Preferred Stock is not convertible into common
    stock absent a class vote by the holders of the common stock to
    amend the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the
    number of shares of authorized common stock and decrease the par
    value of the common stock, an order declaring that AIG s
    directors are breaching their fiduciary duties in not seeking
    alternative or supplemental financing in advance of a
    stockholder vote on such an amendment to the Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation, and damages. During a conference
    with the Court on November 7, 2008, AIG s counsel
    stated that any amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation to increase the number of authorized common stock
    or to decrease the par value of the common stock would be the
    subject of a class vote by the holders of the common stock, and
    plaintiff s counsel agreed that the plaintiff s
    request for an order granting this relief is moot. On
    January 12, 2009, plaintiff agreed to stipulate to dismiss
    its claims against defendants and litigate only the matter of
    attorneys  fees, which have been stipulated not to exceed
    $350,000. On February 5, 2009, the Court approved a
    stipulation and order of dismissal entered into by the parties
    in connection with the action.

2006
    Regulatory Settlements and Related Matters  

2006 Regulatory Settlements.   In February 2006,
    AIG reached a resolution of claims and matters under
    investigation with the DOJ, the SEC, the Office of the New York
    Attorney General (NYAG) and the New York State Department of
    Insurance (DOI). AIG recorded an after-tax charge of
    $1.15 billion relating to these settlements in the fourth
    quarter of 2005. The settlements resolved investigations
    conducted by the SEC, NYAG and DOI in connection with the
    accounting, financial reporting and insurance brokerage
    practices of AIG and its subsidiaries, as well as claims
    relating to the underpayment of certain workers 
    compensation premium taxes and other assessments. These
    settlements did not, however, resolve investigations by
    regulators from other states into insurance brokerage practices
    related to contingent commissions and other broker-related
    conduct, such as alleged bid rigging. Nor did the settlements
    resolve any obligations that AIG may have to state guarantee
    funds in connection with any of these matters.

As a result of these settlements, AIG made payments or placed
    amounts in escrow in 2006 totaling approximately
    $1.64 billion, $225 million of which represented fines
    and penalties. Amounts held in escrow totaling approximately
    $338 million, including interest thereon, are included in
    other assets at December 31, 2008. At that date, all of the
    funds were escrowed for settlement of claims resulting from the
    underpayment by AIG of its residual market assessments for
    workers  compensation.

In addition to the escrowed funds, $800 million was
    deposited into a fund under the supervision of the SEC as part
    of the settlements to be available to resolve claims asserted
    against AIG by investors, including the securities class action
    shareholder lawsuits described below.

Also, as part of the settlements, AIG agreed to retain, for a
    period of three years, an independent consultant to conduct a
    review that will include, among other things, the adequacy of
    AIG s internal control over financial reporting, the
    policies, procedures and effectiveness of AIG s regulatory,
    compliance and legal functions and the remediation plan that AIG
    has implemented as a result of its own internal review.

Other Regulatory Settlements.   AIG s 2006
    regulatory settlements with the SEC, DOJ, NYAG and DOI did not
    resolve investigations by regulators from other states into
    insurance brokerage practices. AIG entered into agreements
    effective January 29, 2008 with the Attorneys General of
    the States of Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Michigan, Oregon, Texas
    and West Virginia; the Commonwealths of Massachusetts and
    Pennsylvania; and the District of Columbia; as well as the
    Florida Department of Financial Services and the Florida Office
    of Insurance Regulation, relating to their respective
    industry-wide investigations into producer compensation and
    insurance placement practices. The settlements call for total
    payments of $12.5 million to be allocated among the ten
    jurisdictions representing restitution to state agencies and
    reimbursement of the costs of the investigation. During the term
    of the settlement agreements, AIG will continue to maintain
    certain producer compensation disclosure and ongoing compliance
    initiatives. AIG will also continue to cooperate with the
    industry-wide investigations. The agreement with the Texas
    Attorney General also settles allegations of anticompetitive
    conduct relating to AIG s

284    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

relationship with Allied World Assurance Company and includes an
    additional settlement payment of $500,000 related thereto.

AIG entered into an agreement effective March 13, 2008 with
    the Pennsylvania Insurance Department relating to the
    Department s investigation into the affairs of AIG and
    certain of its Pennsylvania-domiciled insurance company
    subsidiaries. The settlement calls for total payments of
    approximately $13.5 million, of which approximately
    $4.4 million was paid under previous settlement agreements.
    During the term of the settlement agreement, AIG will provide
    annual reinsurance reports, as well as maintain certain producer
    compensation disclosure and ongoing compliance initiatives.

NAIC Examination of Workers  Compensation Premium
    Reporting.   During 2006, the Settlement Review
    Working Group of the National Association of Insurance
    Commissioners (NAIC), under the direction of the states of
    Indiana, Minnesota and Rhode Island, began an investigation into
    AIG s reporting of workers  compensation premiums. In
    late 2007, the Settlement Review Working Group recommended that
    a multi-state targeted market conduct examination focusing on
    workers  compensation insurance be commenced under the
    direction of the NAIC s Market Analysis Working Group. AIG
    was informed of the multi-state targeted market conduct
    examination in January 2008. The lead states in the multi-state
    examination are Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Massachusetts,
    Minnesota, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island. All other
    states (and the District of Columbia) have agreed to participate
    in the multi-state examination. To date, the examination has
    focused on legacy issues related to AIG s writing and
    reporting of workers  compensation insurance between 1985
    and 1996. AIG has also been advised that the examination will
    focus on current compliance with legal requirements applicable
    to such business. AIG has been advised by the lead states that
    to date no determinations have been made with respect to these
    issues, and AIG cannot predict either the outcome of the
    investigation or provide any assurance regarding regulatory
    action that may result from the investigation.

Securities Action   Southern District of New
    York.   Beginning in October 2004, a number of
    putative securities fraud class action suits were filed in the
    Southern District of New York against AIG and consolidated as In
    re American International Group, Inc. Securities Litigation.
    Subsequently, a separate, though similar, securities fraud
    action was also brought against AIG by certain Florida pension
    funds. The lead plaintiff in the class action is a group of
    public retirement systems and pension funds benefiting Ohio
    state employees, suing on behalf of themselves and all
    purchasers of AIG s publicly traded securities between
    October 28, 1999 and April 1, 2005. The named
    defendants are AIG and a number of present and former AIG
    officers and directors, as well as Starr, SICO, General
    Reinsurance Corporation (General Re), and PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP (PwC), among others. The lead plaintiff alleges, among other
    things, that AIG: (1) concealed that it engaged in
    anti-competitive conduct through alleged payment of contingent
    commissions to brokers and participation in illegal bid-rigging;
    (2) concealed that it used  income smoothing 
    products and other techniques to inflate its earnings;
    (3) concealed that it marketed and sold  income
    smoothing  insurance products to other companies; and
    (4) misled investors about the scope of government
    investigations. In addition, the lead plaintiff alleges that
    AIG s former Chief Executive Officer, Maurice R. Greenberg,
    manipulated AIG s stock price. The lead plaintiff asserts
    claims for violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the
    Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
    and
     Rule 10b-5 
    promulgated thereunder, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act,
    and Section 20A of the Exchange Act. In April 2006, the
    court denied the defendants  motions to dismiss the second
    amended class action complaint and the Florida complaint. In
    December 2006, a third amended class action complaint was filed,
    which does not differ substantially from the prior complaint.
    Fact discovery is currently ongoing. On February 20, 2008,
    the lead plaintiff filed a motion for class certification. The
    motion remains pending.

ERISA Action   Southern District of New
    York.   Between November 30, 2004 and
    July 1, 2005, several ERISA actions were filed in the
    Southern District of New York on behalf of purported class
    participants and beneficiaries of three pension plans sponsored
    by AIG or its subsidiaries. A consolidated complaint filed on
    September 26, 2005 alleges a class period between
    September 30, 2000 and May 31, 2005 and names as
    defendants AIG, the members of AIG s Retirement Board and
    the Administrative Boards of the plans at issue, and present or
    former members of AIG s Board of Directors. The factual
    allegations in the complaint are essentially identical to those
    in the securities actions described above under Securities
    Actions   Southern District of New York. The

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    285 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

parties have reached an agreement to settle this matter for an
    amount within AIG s insurance coverage limits. On
    July 3, 2008, the Court granted preliminary approval of the
    settlement, and at a hearing on October 7, 2008 the Court
    issued an order finally approving the settlement, dismissing the
    action with prejudice. The deadline for filing an appeal from
    the approval order was November 7, 2008. No appeal was
    filed and the settlement is now final.

Derivative Action   Southern District of New
    York.   Between October 25, 2004 and
    July 14, 2005, seven separate derivative actions were filed
    in the Southern District of New York, five of which were
    consolidated into a single action (the New York
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation under Securities Actions  
    Southern District of New York). The complaint in this action
    contains nearly the same types of allegations made in the
    securities fraud action described above. The named defendants
    include current and former officers and directors of AIG, as
    well as Marsh   McLennan Companies, Inc. (Marsh),
    SICO, Starr, ACE Limited and subsidiaries, General Re, PwC, and
    certain employees or officers of these entity defendants.
    Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, gross
    mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment,
    insider selling, auditor breach of contract, auditor
    professional negligence and disgorgement from AIG s former
    Chief Executive Officer, Maurice R. Greenberg, and former Chief
    Financial Officer, Howard I. Smith, of incentive-based
    compensation and AIG share proceeds under Section 304 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, among others. Plaintiffs seek, among
    other things, compensatory damages, corporate governance
    reforms, and a voiding of the election of certain AIG directors.
    AIG s Board of Directors has appointed a special committee
    of independent directors (Special Committee) to review the
    matters asserted in the operative consolidated derivative
    complaint. The court has entered an order staying this action
    pending resolution of the Delaware
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation discussed below. The court also has
    entered an order that termination of certain named defendants
    from the Delaware action applies to this action without further
    order of the court. On October 17, 2007, plaintiffs and
    those AIG officer and director defendants against whom the
    shareholder plaintiffs in the Delaware action are no longer
    pursuing claims filed a stipulation providing for all claims in
    this action against such defendants to be dismissed with
    prejudice. Former directors and officers Maurice R. Greenberg
    and Howard I. Smith have asked the court to refrain from so
    ordering this stipulation.

Derivative Actions   Delaware Chancery
    Court.   From October 2004 to April 2005, AIG
    shareholders filed five derivative complaints in the Delaware
    Chancery Court. All of these derivative lawsuits were
    consolidated into a single action as In re American
    International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation
    (the Delaware
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation). The amended consolidated complaint named
    43 defendants (not including nominal defendant AIG) who, as in
    the New York
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation, were current and former officers and
    directors of AIG, as well as other entities and certain of their
    current and former employees and directors. The factual
    allegations, legal claims and relief sought in this action are
    similar to those alleged in the New York
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation, except that the claims are only under
    state law. In early 2007, the court approved an agreement that
    AIG be realigned as plaintiff, and, on June 13, 2007,
    acting on the direction of the Special Committee, AIG filed an
    amended complaint against former directors and officers Maurice
    R. Greenberg and Howard I. Smith, alleging breach of fiduciary
    duty and indemnification. Also on June 13, 2007, the
    Special Committee filed a motion to terminate the litigation as
    to certain defendants, while taking no action as to others.
    Defendants Greenberg and Smith filed answers to AIG s
    complaint and brought third-party complaints against certain
    current and former AIG directors and officers, PwC and
    Regulatory Insurance Services, Inc. On September 28, 2007,
    AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs filed a combined amended
    complaint in which AIG continued to assert claims against
    defendants Greenberg and Smith and took no position as to the
    claims asserted by the shareholder plaintiffs in the remainder
    of the combined amended complaint. In that pleading, the
    shareholder plaintiffs are no longer pursuing claims against
    certain AIG officers and directors. On February 12, 2008,
    the court granted AIG s motion to stay discovery pending
    the resolution of claims against AIG in the New York
    consolidated securities action. On April 11, 2008, the
    shareholder plaintiffs filed the First Amended Combined
    Complaint, which added claims against former AIG directors and
    officers Maurice Greenberg, Edward Matthews, and Thomas Tizzio
    for breach of fiduciary duty based on alleged bid-rigging in the
    municipal derivatives market. On June 13, 2008, certain
    defendants filed motions to dismiss the shareholder
    plaintiffs  portions of the complaint. On February 11,
    2009, the court denied the motions to dismiss filed by Maurice
    Greenberg, Edward Matthews, and Thomas Tizzio; granted the
    motion to dismiss filed by PwC without prejudice; and granted
    the motion to dismiss filed by certain

286    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

former employees of AIG without prejudice for lack of personal
    jurisdiction. The shareholder plaintiffs have appealed the
    dismissal of PwC. The motions to dismiss filed by the remaining
    parties are pending.

AIG is also named as a defendant in a derivative action in the
    Delaware Chancery Court brought by shareholders of Marsh. On
    July 10, 2008, shareholder plaintiffs filed a second
    consolidated amended complaint, which contains claims against
    AIG for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and
    contribution and indemnification in connection with alleged
    bid-rigging and steering practices in the commercial insurance
    market that are the subject of the Policyholder Antitrust and
    Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)
    Actions described below. On November 10, 2008, AIG and
    certain defendants filed motions to dismiss the shareholder
    plaintiffs  portions of the complaint. The motions to
    dismiss are pending.

Derivative Action   Supreme Court of New
    York.   On February 11, 2009, shareholder
    plaintiffs in the Delaware
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation filed a derivative complaint in the
    Supreme Court of New York against the individual defendants who
    moved to dismiss the complaint in the Delaware
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation on personal jurisdiction grounds. The
    defendants include current and former officers and employees of
    AIG, Marsh, and Gen Re; AIG is named as a nominal defendant. The
    complaint in this action contains similar allegations to those
    made in the Delaware
     2004/2005 
    Derivative Litigation described above.

Policyholder Antitrust and RICO
    Actions.   Commencing in 2004, policyholders
    brought multiple federal antitrust and RICO class actions in
    jurisdictions across the nation against insurers and brokers,
    including AIG and a number of its subsidiaries, alleging that
    the insurers and brokers engaged in a broad conspiracy to
    allocate customers, steer business, and rig bids. These actions,
    including 24 complaints filed in different federal courts naming
    AIG or an AIG subsidiary as a defendant, were consolidated by
    the judicial panel on multi-district litigation and transferred
    to the United States District Court for the District of New
    Jersey (District of New Jersey) for coordinated pretrial
    proceedings. The consolidated actions have proceeded in that
    court in two parallel actions, In re Insurance Brokerage
    Antitrust Litigation (the Commercial Complaint) and In re
    Employee Benefit Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation (the
    Employee Benefits Complaint, and, together with the Commercial
    Complaint, the Multi-district Litigation).

The plaintiffs in the Commercial Complaint are a group of
    corporations, individuals and public entities that contracted
    with the broker defendants for the provision of insurance
    brokerage services for a variety of insurance needs. The broker
    defendants are alleged to have placed insurance coverage on the
    plaintiffs  behalf with a number of insurance companies
    named as defendants, including AIG subsidiaries. The Commercial
    Complaint also named various brokers and other insurers as
    defendants (three of which have since settled). The Commercial
    Complaint alleges, among other things, that defendants engaged
    in a widespread conspiracy to allocate customers through
    bid-rigging and steering practices. Plaintiffs assert that the
    defendants violated the Sherman Antitrust Act, RICO, and the
    antitrust laws of 48 states and the District of Columbia,
    and are liable under common law breach of fiduciary duty and
    unjust enrichment theories. Plaintiffs seek treble damages plus
    interest and attorneys  fees as a result of the alleged
    RICO and Sherman Antitrust Act violations.

The plaintiffs in the Employee Benefits Complaint are a group of
    individual employees and corporate and municipal employers
    alleging claims on behalf of two separate nationwide purported
    classes: an employee class and an employer class that acquired
    insurance products from the defendants from August 26, 1994
    to the date of any class certification. The Employee Benefits
    Complaint names AIG, as well as various other brokers and
    insurers, as defendants. The activities alleged in the Employee
    Benefits Complaint, with certain exceptions, track the
    allegations made in the Commercial Complaint.

The Court in connection with the Commercial Complaint granted
    (without leave to amend) defendants  motions to dismiss the
    federal antitrust and RICO claims on August 31, 2007 and
    September 28, 2007, respectively. The court declined to
    exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims in
    the Commercial Complaint and therefore dismissed it in its
    entirety. On January 14, 2008, the court granted
    defendants  motion for summary judgment on the ERISA claims
    in the Employee Benefits Complaint and subsequently dismissed
    the remaining state law claims without prejudice, thereby
    dismissing the Employee Benefits Complaint in its entirety. On
    February 12, 2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to
    the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit with

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    287 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

respect to the dismissal of the Employee Benefits Complaint.
    Plaintiffs previously appealed the dismissal of the Commercial
    Complaint to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
    Circuit on October 10, 2007. Both appeals are fully briefed
    and oral argument in both appeals has been tentatively scheduled
    for April 20, 2009.

A number of complaints making allegations similar to those in
    the Multi-district Litigation have been filed against AIG and
    other defendants in state and federal courts around the country.
    The defendants have thus far been successful in having the
    federal actions transferred to the District of New Jersey and
    consolidated into the Multi-district Litigation. These
    additional consolidated actions are still pending in the
    District of New Jersey, but are currently stayed pending a
    decision by the court on whether they will proceed during the
    appeal of the dismissal of the Multi-district Litigation. On
    August 20, 2008, the District Court, however, granted
    plaintiff s motion to lift the stay in one tag-along matter
    and suggested that the case be remanded to the transferor court,
    and on November 26, 2008, the Judicial Panel on
    Multidistrict Litigation issued an order remanding the case to
    the transferor court. The AIG defendants have also sought to
    have state court actions making similar allegations stayed
    pending resolution of the Multi-district Litigation proceeding.
    These efforts have generally been successful, although
    plaintiffs in one case pending in Texas state court have moved
    to re-open discovery; a hearing on that motion was held on
    April 9, 2008. The court subsequently issued an order
    deferring a ruling on the motion until the Court holds a hearing
    on defendants  Special Exceptions. On January 9, 2009,
    the Court held a hearing on defendants  Special Exceptions.
    The hearing has not been completed and has been continued to
    April 3, 2009. AIG has settled several of the various
    federal and state actions alleging claims similar to those in
    the Multi-district Litigation, including a state court action
    pending in Florida in which discovery had been allowed to
    proceed.

Ohio Attorney General Action   Ohio Court of Common
    Pleas.   On August 24, 2007, the Ohio Attorney
    General filed a complaint in the Ohio Court of Common Pleas
    against AIG and a number of its subsidiaries, as well as several
    other broker and insurer defendants, asserting violation of
    Ohio s antitrust laws. The complaint, which is similar to
    the Commercial Complaint, alleges that AIG and the other broker
    and insurer defendants conspired to allocate customers, divide
    markets, and restrain competition in commercial lines of
    casualty insurance sold through the broker defendant. The
    complaint seeks treble damages on behalf of Ohio public
    purchasers of commercial casualty insurance, disgorgement on
    behalf of both public and private purchasers of commercial
    casualty insurance, as well as a $500 per day penalty for each
    day of conspiratorial conduct. AIG, along with other
    co-defendants, moved to dismiss the complaint on
    November 16, 2007. On June 30, 2008, the Court denied
    defendants  motion to dismiss. On August 18, 2008,
    defendants filed their answers to the complaint. Discovery is
    ongoing.

Action Relating to Workers  Compensation Premium
    Reporting   Northern District of
    Illinois.   On May 24, 2007, the National
    Workers  Compensation Reinsurance Pool (the NWCRP), on
    behalf of its participant members, filed a lawsuit in the United
    States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
    against AIG with respect to the underpayment by AIG of its
    residual market assessments for workers  compensation. The
    complaint alleges claims for violations of RICO, breach of
    contract, fraud and related state law claims arising out of
    AIG s alleged underpayment of these assessments between
    1970 and the present and seeks damages purportedly in excess of
    $1 billion. On August 6, 2007, the court denied
    AIG s motion seeking to dismiss or stay the complaint or,
    in the alternative, to transfer to the Southern District of New
    York. On December 26, 2007, the court denied AIG s
    motion to dismiss the complaint. On March 17, 2008, AIG
    filed an amended answer, counterclaims and third-party claims
    against the National Council on Compensation Insurance (in its
    capacity as attorney-in-fact for the NWCRP), the NWCRP, its
    board members, and certain of the other insurance companies that
    are members of the NWCRP alleging violations of RICO, as well as
    claims for conspiracy, fraud, and other state law claims. The
    counterclaim-and third-party defendants filed motions to dismiss
    on June 9, 2008. On February 23, 2009, the Court
    issued a decision and order sustaining AIG s counterclaims
    and sustaining, in part, AIG s third-party claims. The
    Court also dismissed certain of AIG s third-party claims
    without prejudice. The Court also has stayed the entire case
    pending a ruling on AIG s motion to dismiss for lack of
    subject matter jurisdiction, which is scheduled for a ruling on
    June 10, 2009.

Action Relating to Workers  Compensation Premium
    Reporting   Minnesota.   On
    February 16, 2006, the Attorney General of the State of
    Minnesota filed a complaint against AIG with respect to claims
    by the Minnesota Department of Revenue and the Minnesota Special
    Compensation Fund, alleging that AIG made false statements

288    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and reports to Minnesota agencies and regulators, unlawfully
    reducing AIG s contributions and payments to Minnesota and
    certain state funds relating to its workers  compensation
    premiums. While AIG settled that litigation in December 2007, a
    similar lawsuit was filed by the Minnesota Workers 
    Compensation Reinsurance Association and the Minnesota
    Workers  Compensation Insurers Association in the United
    States District Court for the District of Minnesota. On
    March 28, 2008, the court granted AIG s motion to
    dismiss the case in its entirety. On April 25, 2008,
    plaintiffs appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Eighth Circuit and also filed a new complaint making similar
    allegations in Minnesota state court. On April 30, 2008,
    substantially identical claims were also filed in Minnesota
    state court by the Minnesota Insurance Guaranty Association and
    Minnesota Assigned Risk Plan. On September 11, 2008, the
    parties to both actions entered into a settlement, resulting in
    the dismissal of all claims against AIG. In exchange for the
    dismissal and a broad release of claims, the financial terms of
    the settlement provided for AIG s payment of
    $21.5 million to plaintiffs and waiver of its right to
    collect $3.5 million in payments due from the plaintiffs.

Action Relating to Workers  Compensation Premium
    Reporting   District of South
    Carolina.   A purported class action was also filed
    in the United States District Court for the District of South
    Carolina on January 25, 2008 against AIG and certain of its
    subsidiaries, on behalf of a class of employers that obtained
    workers  compensation insurance from AIG companies and
    allegedly paid inflated premiums as a result of AIG s
    alleged underreporting of workers  compensation premiums.
    An amended complaint was filed on March 24, 2008, and AIG
    filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on
    April 21, 2008. On July 8, 2008, the court granted
    AIG s motion to dismiss all claims without prejudice and
    granted plaintiff leave to refile subject to certain conditions.
    Plaintiffs filed their second amended complaint on July 22,
    2008. AIG moved to dismiss the second amended complaint on
    August 22, 2008. Discovery is stayed pending resolution of
    the motion to dismiss.

Litigation
    Relating to SICO and Starr  

SICO Action.   In July, 2005 SICO filed a
    complaint against AIG in the Southern District of New York,
    claiming that AIG had refused to provide SICO access to certain
    artwork, and asking the court to order AIG immediately to
    release the property to SICO. AIG filed an answer denying
    SICO s allegations and setting forth defenses to
    SICO s claims. In addition, AIG filed counterclaims
    asserting breach of contract, unjust enrichment, conversion,
    breach of fiduciary duty, a constructive trust and declaratory
    judgment, relating to SICO s breach of its commitment to
    use its AIG shares only for the benefit of AIG and AIG
    employees. On June 23, 2008, the Court denied in part and
    granted in part SICO s motion for summary judgment,
    and on July 31, 2008 the parties submitted a joint
    pre-trial order. Trial is scheduled to commence on June 15,
    2009.

Derivative Action Relating to Starr and
    SICO.   On December 31, 2002, a derivative
    lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Chancery Court against twenty
    directors and executives of AIG as well as against AIG as a
    nominal defendant that alleges, among other things, that the
    directors of AIG breached the fiduciary duties of loyalty and
    care by approving the payment of commissions to insurance
    managing general agencies owned by Starr and of rental and
    service fees to SICO and the executives breached their duty of
    loyalty by causing AIG to enter into contracts with Starr and
    SICO and their fiduciary duties by usurping AIG s corporate
    opportunities. The complaint further alleges that the Starr
    agencies did not provide any services that AIG was not capable
    of providing itself, and that the diversion of commissions to
    these entities was solely for the benefit of Starr s
    owners. The complaint also alleges that the service fees and
    rental payments made to SICO and its subsidiaries were improper.
    Under the terms of a stipulation approved by the Court on
    February 16, 2006, the claims against the outside
    independent directors were dismissed with prejudice, while the
    claims against the other directors were dismissed without
    prejudice. In an opinion dated June 21, 2006, the Court
    denied defendants  motion to dismiss, except with respect
    to plaintiff s challenge to payments made to Starr before
    January 1, 2000. On July 21, 2006, plaintiff filed its
    second amended complaint, which alleges that, between
    January 1, 2000 and May 31, 2005, individual
    defendants breached their duty of loyalty by causing AIG to
    enter into contracts with Starr and SICO and breached their
    fiduciary duties by usurping AIG s corporate opportunity.
    Starr is charged with aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary
    duty and unjust enrichment for its acceptance of the fees. SICO
    is no longer named as a defendant. On June 27, 2007, Starr
    filed a cross-claim against AIG, alleging one count that
    includes contribution, unjust enrichment and setoff. On
    November 15, 2007, the Court granted AIG s motion to
    dismiss the cross-claim by Starr to the extent that it sought

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    289 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

affirmative relief from AIG. On February 14, 2008, the
    Court granted a motion to add former AIG officer Thomas Tizzio
    as a defendant. As a result, the remaining defendants in the
    case are AIG (the nominal defendant), Starr and former directors
    and officers Maurice Greenberg, Howard Smith, Edward Matthews
    and Thomas Tizzio. On September 30, 2008, the parties filed
    a stipulation of settlement, where defendants agreed to payment
    of $115 million to AIG, net of attorneys  fees and
    costs, in exchange for receipt of a broad release of claims
    relating to the allegations in the complaint. At the settlement
    hearing on December 17, 2008, the Court approved the terms
    of the settlement and entered final judgment.

Litigation
    Matters Relating to AIG s General Insurance
    Operations  

Caremark.   AIG and certain of its subsidiaries
    have been named defendants in two putative class actions in
    state court in Alabama that arise out of the 1999 settlement of
    class and derivative litigation involving Caremark Rx, Inc.
    (Caremark). The plaintiffs in the second-filed action have
    intervened in the first-filed action, and the second-filed
    action has been dismissed. An excess policy issued by a
    subsidiary of AIG with respect to the 1999 litigation was
    expressly stated to be without limit of liability. In the
    current actions, plaintiffs allege that the judge approving the
    1999 settlement was misled as to the extent of available
    insurance coverage and would not have approved the settlement
    had he known of the existence
     and/or 
    unlimited nature of the excess policy. They further allege that
    AIG, its subsidiaries, and Caremark are liable for fraud and
    suppression for misrepresenting
     and/or 
    concealing the nature and extent of coverage. In addition, the
    intervenor-plaintiffs originally alleged that various lawyers
    and law firms who represented parties in the underlying class
    and derivative litigation (the Lawyer Defendants) were also
    liable for fraud and suppression, misrepresentation, and breach
    of fiduciary duty. The complaints filed by the plaintiffs and
    the intervenor-plaintiffs request compensatory damages for the
    1999 class in the amount of $3.2 billion, plus punitive
    damages. AIG and its subsidiaries deny the allegations of fraud
    and suppression and have asserted that information concerning
    the excess policy was publicly disclosed months prior to the
    approval of the settlement. AIG and its subsidiaries further
    assert that the current claims are barred by the statute of
    limitations and that plaintiffs  assertions that the
    statute was tolled cannot stand against the public disclosure of
    the excess coverage. The plaintiffs and intervenor-plaintiffs,
    in turn, have asserted that the disclosure was insufficient to
    inform them of the nature of the coverage and did not start the
    running of the statute of limitations. On November 26,
    2007, the trial court issued an order that dismissed the
    intervenors  complaint against the Lawyer Defendants and
    entered a final judgment in favor of the Lawyer Defendants. The
    matter was stayed pending appeal to the Alabama Supreme Court.
    In September 2008 the Alabama Supreme Court affirmed the trial
    court s dismissal of the Lawyer Defendants. After the case
    was remanded to the trial court, the intervenor-plaintiffs
    retained additional counsel   the law firm of Haskell
    Slaughter Young   Rediker, LLC (Haskell
    Slaughter)   and filed an Amended Complaint in
    Intervention on December 1, 2008. The Amended Complaint in
    Intervention names only Caremark and AIG and various
    subsidiaries as defendants and purports to bring claims against
    all defendants for deceit and conspiracy to deceive and against
    AIG and its subsidiaries for aiding and abetting Caremark s
    alleged deception. The defendants have moved to dismiss the
    Amended Complaint, and, in the alternative, for a more definite
    statement. After the appearance of the Haskell Slaughter firm on
    behalf of the intervenor-plaintiffs, the plaintiffs moved to
    disqualify all of the lawyers for the intervenor-plaintiffs
    because, among other things, the Haskell Slaughter firm
    previously represented Caremark. The intervenor-plaintiffs, in
    turn, moved to disqualify the lawyers for the plaintiffs in the
    first-filed action. The trial court heard oral argument on the
    motions to disqualify on February 6, 2009, and the court
    has also clarified that the defendants  motion to dismiss
    and any class action scheduling conference will be deferred
    until the motions to disqualify have been decided. At this time,
    class discovery has yet to begin. AIG cannot reasonably estimate
    either the likelihood of its prevailing in these actions or the
    potential damages in the event liability is determined.

(b)     

Commitments   

Flight
    Equipment  

At December 31, 2008, ILFC had committed to purchase 168
    new aircraft deliverable from 2009 through 2019 at an estimated
    aggregate purchase price of $16.7 billion. ILFC will be
    required to find customers for any aircraft acquired, and it
    must arrange financing for portions of the purchase price of
    such equipment.

290    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Included in the 168 new aircraft are 74 Boeing 787 aircraft,
    with the first aircraft currently scheduled to be delivered in
    July of 2012. Boeing has made several announcements concerning
    delays in the deliveries of the 787s and ILFC is in discussion
    with Boeing related to potential delay compensation and
    penalties for which ILFC may be eligible. Under the terms of
    ILFC s 787 leases, particular lessees may be entitled to
    share in any compensation which ILFC receives from Boeing for
    late delivery of the aircraft. ILFC has signed leases for 31 of
    the 74 787s on order.

Minimum future rental income on noncancelable operating
    leases of flight equipment that has been delivered was as
    follows: 

Flight equipment is leased under operating leases with remaining
    terms ranging from 1 to 11 years.

Lease
    Commitments  

AIG and its subsidiaries occupy leased space in many locations
    under various long-term leases and have entered into various
    leases covering the long-term use of data processing equipment.

The future minimum lease payments under operating leases were
    as follows: 

Rent expense approximated $896 million, $771 million,
    and $657 million for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

Other
    Commitments  

In the normal course of business, AIG enters into commitments to
    invest in limited partnerships, private equities, hedge funds
    and mutual funds and to purchase and develop real estate in the
    U.S. and abroad. These commitments totaled
    $9.2 billion at December 31, 2008.

On June 27, 2005, AIG entered into an agreement pursuant to
    which AIG agreed, subject to certain conditions, to make any
    payment that is not promptly paid with respect to the benefits
    accrued by certain employees of AIG and its subsidiaries under
    the SICO Plans in (c) below under Benefits Provided by
    Starr International Company, Inc. and C.V. Starr  
    Co., Inc.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    291 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(c)     

Contingencies   

Liability
    for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense  

Although AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of the established
    liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there
    can be no assurance that AIG s ultimate liability for
    unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense will not develop
    adversely and materially exceed AIG s current liability for
    unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. Estimation of
    ultimate net claims, claims adjustment expenses and liability
    for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense is a complex
    process for long-tail casualty lines of business, which include
    excess and umbrella liability, directors and officers liability
    (D O), professional liability, medical malpractice,
    workers  compensation, general liability, products
    liability and related classes, as well as for asbestos and
    environmental exposures. Generally, actual historical loss
    development factors are used to project future loss development.
    However, there can be no assurance that future loss development
    patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any
    deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors
    might not be discernible for an extended period of time
    subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve
    estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential
    for reserves with respect to a number of years to be
    significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss
    development factors that were relied upon in setting the
    reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development
    factors could be attributable to changes in inflation, in labor
    and material costs or in the judicial environment, or in other
    social or economic phenomena affecting claims.

Deferred
    Tax Assets  

AIG s determination of the realizability of deferred tax
    assets requires estimates of future taxable income. Such
    estimates could change in the near term, perhaps materially,
    which may require AIG to adjust its valuation allowance. Such
    adjustment, either positive or negative, could be material to
    AIG s consolidated financial condition or its results of
    operations. See Note 20 herein.

Benefits
    Provided by Starr International Company, Inc. and C.V.
    Starr   Co., Inc.  

SICO has provided a series of two-year Deferred Compensation
    Profit Participation Plans (SICO Plans) to certain AIG
    employees. The SICO Plans were created in 1975 when the voting
    shareholders and Board of Directors of SICO, a private holding
    company whose principal asset is AIG common stock, decided that
    a portion of the capital value of SICO should be used to provide
    an incentive plan for the current and succeeding managements of
    all American International companies, including AIG.

None of the costs of the various benefits provided under the
    SICO Plans has been paid by AIG, although AIG has recorded a
    charge to reported earnings for the deferred compensation
    amounts paid to AIG employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount
    credited to additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts
    considered to be contributed by SICO. The SICO Plans provide
    that shares currently owned by SICO are set aside by SICO for
    the benefit of the participant and distributed upon retirement.
    The SICO Board of Directors currently may permit an early payout
    of units under certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the
    participant is not entitled to vote, dispose of or receive
    dividends with respect to such shares, and shares are subject to
    forfeiture under certain conditions, including but not limited
    to the participant s voluntary termination of employment
    with AIG prior to normal retirement age. Under the SICO Plans,
    SICO s Board of Directors may elect to pay a participant
    cash in lieu of shares of AIG common stock. Following
    notification from SICO to participants in the SICO Plans that it
    will settle specific future awards under the SICO Plans with
    shares rather than cash, AIG modified its accounting for the
    SICO Plans from variable to fixed measurement accounting. AIG
    gave effect to this change in settlement method beginning on
    December 9, 2005, the date of SICO s notice to
    participants in the SICO Plans.

(d)     

Guarantees   

AIG has issued unconditional guarantees with respect to the
    prompt payment, when due, of all present and future payment
    obligations and liabilities of AIGFP arising from transactions
    entered into by AIGFP.

292    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

SAI Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of AIG, has established a deferred compensation plan
    for registered representatives of certain AIG subsidiaries,
    pursuant to which participants have the opportunity to invest
    deferred commissions and fees on a notional basis. The value of
    the deferred compensation fluctuates with the value of the
    deferred investment alternatives chosen. AIG has provided a full
    and unconditional guarantee of the obligations of SAI Deferred
    Compensation Holdings, Inc. to pay the deferred compensation
    under the plan. In December 2008, AIG terminated the plan for
    current employees and ceased to permit new deferrals into the
    plan.

15.    

Shareholders 
    Equity and Earnings (Loss) Per Share  

AIG parent depends on its subsidiaries for cash flow in the form
    of loans, advances, reimbursement for shared expenses, and
    dividends. AIG s insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory restrictions on the amount of dividends that can be
    remitted to AIG parent. These restrictions vary by jurisdiction.
    For example, unless permitted by the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance, general insurance companies domiciled in New York may
    not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any twelve-month
    period, exceed the lesser of ten percent of such company s
    statutory policyholders  surplus or 100 percent of its
     adjusted net investment income,  as defined.
    Generally, less severe restrictions applicable to both general
    and life insurance companies exist in most of the other states
    in which AIG s insurance subsidiaries are domiciled.
    Certain foreign jurisdictions have restrictions that could delay
    or limit the remittance of dividends. There are also various
    local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to AIG by
    its subsidiaries. Largely as a result of these restrictions, a
    significant majority of the aggregate equity of AIG s
    consolidated subsidiaries was restricted from immediate transfer
    to AIG parent at December 31, 2008.

Series C
    Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock  

As partial consideration for the Fed Credit Agreement, AIG
    agreed to issue 100,000 shares of Series C Preferred
    Stock to the Trust. AIG recorded the $23 billion fair value
    of the Series C Preferred Stock not yet issued as a prepaid
    commitment fee asset and an increase to additional paid-in
    capital. The Trust Agreement governing the operations of the
    Trust was executed in January 2009. On March 1, 2009, AIG
    entered into the Series C Preferred Stock Purchase
    Agreement with the Trust, and AIG expects to issue the
    Series C Preferred Stock to the Trust in early March 2009.

The Series C Preferred Stock will have voting rights
    commensurate with an approximately 77.9 percent holding of
    all outstanding shares of common stock, treating the
    Series C Preferred Stock as converted. Holders of the
    Series C Preferred Stock will be entitled to participate in
    dividends paid on the common stock, receiving approximately
    77.9 percent of the aggregate amount of dividends paid on
    the shares of common stock then outstanding, treating the
    Series C Preferred Stock as converted. After the
    Series C Preferred Stock is issued and following notice
    from the Trust, AIG will be required to hold a special
    shareholders  meeting to amend its Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of
    common stock to 19 billion and to reduce the par value per
    share. The holders of the common stock will be entitled to vote
    as a class separate from the holders of the Series C
    Preferred Stock on these changes to AIG s Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation. If the increase in the number of
    authorized shares and change in par value of the common stock is
    approved, the Series C Preferred Stock will become
    convertible into common stock. The number of shares into which
    the Series C Preferred Stock will be convertible is that
    which will result in an approximately 77.9 percent holding,
    after conversion, based upon the number of shares of common
    stock outstanding on the issue date of the Series C
    Preferred Stock, plus the number of shares of common stock that
    are subsequently issued in settlement of Equity Units. Subject
    to certain exceptions, while the Trust owns for the sole benefit
    of the United States Treasury at least 50 percent of the
    Series C Preferred Stock (or the shares into which the
    Series C Preferred Stock is convertible), AIG will be
    prohibited from issuing any capital stock, or any securities or
    instruments convertible or exchangeable into, or exercisable
    for, capital stock, without the Trust s consent. In
    addition, AIG has provided demand registration rights for the
    Series C Preferred Stock.

The $23 billion initial fair value of the Series C
    Preferred Stock was determined by AIG primarily based on the
    implied value of the common stock into which the Series C
    Preferred Stock will be convertible as indicated by

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    293 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s common stock price immediately after the terms of the
    Fed Credit Agreement were publicly announced. Other valuation
    techniques were employed to corroborate this value, which
    considered both market observable inputs, such as AIG credit
    spreads, and other inputs. The following significant assumptions
    were utilized in the valuation:

The valuation date for the Series C Preferred Stock was
    September 16, 2008, the date AIG received the NY Fed s
    commitment to enter into the Fed Credit Agreement;

The Series C Preferred Stock will be economically
    equivalent to the common stock, will have voting rights
    commensurate with the common stock, and will be convertible into
    shares of common stock; and

The price of AIG s common stock the day after the
    announcement of the NY Fed s commitment to enter into the
    Fed Credit Agreement provided the most observable market
    evidence of the value of the Series C Preferred Stock.

Basic and diluted EPS will be affected by the Series C
    Preferred Stock in any period in which AIG has net income. The
    effect on basic and diluted EPS will be computed using the
    two-class method, pursuant to which the earnings of the period
    will be allocated to the Series C Preferred Stock and the
    common stock, as if all the earnings of the period were
    distributed. Prior to any partial conversion of the
    Series C Preferred Stock, this will result in approximately
    77.9 percent of the earnings for the period being allocated
    to the Series C Preferred Stock, directly reducing the net
    income available for common shareholders. In the event that the
    Series C Preferred Stock becomes convertible, Diluted EPS
    will be determined using the more dilutive of the if-converted
    method or the two-class method. Under the if-converted method,
    conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock is assumed to
    have occurred as of the beginning of the period, and the number
    of common shares that would be issued on conversion is assumed
    to be the number of additional shares outstanding for the
    period. Because AIG incurred a net loss during the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Series C Preferred Stock was
    anti-dilutive and is not reflected in the computation of basic
    or diluted EPS.

Series D
    Preferred Stock  

Under the United States Department of the Treasury s
    Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the Systemically
    Significant Failing Institutions Program, AIG issued four
    million shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock (Series D Preferred Stock) and a ten-year
    warrant to purchase 53,798,766 shares of common stock (the
    Warrant) for $40 billion, which AIG used to repay a portion
    of the outstanding debt under the Fed Facility.

The Series D Preferred Stock ranks  pari passu  with
    the Series C Preferred Stock and senior to AIG s
    common stock. The Series D Preferred Stock has limited
    class voting rights and cumulative compounding dividends at
    10 percent per annum. The dividends are payable when, as
    and if declared by AIG s Board of Directors. AIG is not
    able to declare or pay any dividends on AIG s common stock
    or on any AIG preferred stock ranking  pari passu  with or
    junior to the Series D Preferred Stock until dividends on
    the Series D Preferred Stock have been paid. AIG may redeem
    the Series D Preferred Stock at the $40 billion stated
    liquidation preference, plus accumulated but unpaid dividends,
    at any time the Trust or a successor entity beneficially owns
    less than 30 percent of AIG s voting securities and no
    holder of the Series D Preferred Stock controls or has the
    potential to control AIG. As of December 31, 2008, the
    accumulated dividends were $400 million.

In addition, for as long as the United States Department of the
    Treasury owns any of the Series D Preferred Stock, AIG is
    subject to restrictions on its ability to repurchase capital
    stock, and is required to adopt and maintain policies limiting
    corporate expenses, lobbying activities and executive
    compensation.

In connection with the issuance of the Series D Preferred
    Stock, AIG issued the Warrant, which is exercisable at any time
    and has an initial exercise price of $2.50 per share. The
    exercise price will be reduced to $0.000001 per share in the
    event AIG s shareholders approve a reduction in the par
    amount of AIG s common stock to $0.000001 per share. The
    United States Department of the Treasury has agreed that it will
    not exercise any voting rights with respect to the common stock
    issued upon exercise of the Warrant. The Warrant is not subject
    to contractual transfer

294    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

restrictions other than restrictions necessary to comply with
    U.S. federal and state securities laws. AIG is obligated,
    at the request of the United States Department of the Treasury,
    to file a registration statement with respect to the Warrant and
    the common stock for which the Warrant can be exercised. During
    the  ten-year 
    term of the Warrant, if the shares of common stock of AIG are no
    longer listed or trading on a national securities exchange, AIG
    may be obligated, at the direction of the United States
    Department of the Treasury, to exchange all or a portion of the
    Warrant for another economic interest of AIG classified as
    permanent equity under U.S. GAAP with an equivalent fair
    value. If the Series D Preferred Stock issued in connection
    with the Warrant is redeemed in whole or transferred to third
    parties, AIG may repurchase the Warrant then held by the United
    States Department of the Treasury at any time for its fair
    market value so long as the Trust does not control or have the
    potential to control AIG through Board of Director
    representation.

Dividends  

Dividends declared per common share were $0.42, $0.77, and $0.65
    in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Effective
    September 23, 2008, AIG s Board of Directors suspended
    the declaration of dividends on AIG s common stock.
    Pursuant to the Fed Credit Agreement, AIG is restricted from
    paying dividends on its common stock. In addition, pursuant to
    the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock, AIG is not able to
    declare or pay any dividends on AIG s common stock or on
    any AIG preferred stock ranking  pari passu  with or junior
    to the Series D Preferred Stock until dividends on the
    Series D Preferred Stock have been paid.

Share
    Issuance and Repurchases  

In February 2007, AIG s Board of Directors increased
    AIG s share repurchase program by authorizing the purchase
    of shares with an aggregate purchase price of $8 billion.
    In November 2007, AIG s Board of Directors authorized the
    purchase of an additional $8 billion in common stock. In
    2007, AIG entered into structured share repurchase arrangements
    providing for the purchase of shares over time with an aggregate
    purchase price of $7 billion.

A total of 37,926,059 shares were purchased during the
    first six months of 2008 to meet commitments that existed at
    December 31, 2007. There were no repurchases during the
    third and fourth quarters of 2008. At February 18, 2009,
    $9 billion was available for purchases under the aggregate
    authorizations.

Pursuant to the Fed Credit Agreement, however, AIG is restricted
    from repurchasing shares of its common stock.

In May 2008, AIG sold 196,710,525 shares of common stock at
    a price per share of $38 for gross proceeds of
    $7.47 billion and 78,400,000 equity units (the Equity
    Units) at a price per unit of $75 for gross proceeds of
    $5.88 billion. The Equity Units, the key terms of which are
    summarized below, are recorded as long-term debt in the
    consolidated balance sheet.

Equity
    Units  

Each Equity Unit has an initial stated amount of $75 and
    consists of a stock purchase contract issued by AIG and,
    initially, a 1/40th or 2.5 percent undivided
    beneficial ownership interest in three series of junior
    subordinated debentures
     (Series B-1, 
    B-2 and B-3), each with a principal amount of $1,000.

Each stock purchase contract requires its holder to purchase,
    and requires AIG to sell, a variable number of shares of AIG
    common stock for $25 in cash on each of February 15, 2011,
    May 1, 2011 and August 1, 2011. The number of shares
    that AIG is obligated to deliver on each stock purchase date is
    set forth in the chart below (where the  applicable market
    value  is an average of the trading prices of AIG s
    common stock over the 20-trading-day period ending on the third
    business day prior to the relevant stock purchase date).

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    295 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Basic earnings (loss) per share (EPS) will not be affected by
    outstanding stock purchase contracts. Diluted EPS will be
    determined considering the potential dilution from outstanding
    stock purchase contracts using the treasury stock method, and
    therefore diluted EPS will not be affected by outstanding stock
    purchase contracts until the applicable market value exceeds
    $45.60.

AIG is obligated to pay quarterly contract adjustment payments
    to the holders of the stock purchase contracts, at an initial
    annual rate of 2.71 percent applied to the stated amount.
    The present value of the contract adjustment payments,
    $431 million, was recognized at inception as a liability (a
    component of other liabilities), and was recorded as a reduction
    to additional paid-in capital.

In addition to the stock purchase contracts, as part of the
    Equity Units, AIG issued $1.96 billion of each of the
     Series B-1, 
    B-2 and B-3 junior subordinated debentures, which initially pay
    interest at rates of 5.67 percent, 5.82 percent and
    5.89 percent, respectively. AIG allocated the proceeds of
    the Equity Units between the stock purchase contracts and the
    junior subordinated debentures on a relative fair value basis.
    AIG determined that the fair value of the stock purchase
    contract at issuance was zero, and therefore all of the proceeds
    were allocated to the junior subordinated debentures.

Earnings
    (Loss) Per Share (EPS)   

Basic earnings (loss) per share and diluted loss per share are
    based on the weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock
    splits. Diluted earnings per share is based on those shares used
    in basic earnings (loss) per share plus shares that would have
    been outstanding assuming issuance of common shares for all
    dilutive potential common shares outstanding, adjusted to
    reflect all stock dividends and stock splits.

The computation of basic and diluted EPS was as follows: 

296    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

*   

Calculated using the treasury stock method. Certain shares
    arising from share-based employee compensation plans and the
    warrant associated with the Series D Preferred Stock were
    not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the
    effect would have been anti-dilutive. The number of shares
    excluded were 98 million, 8 million and
    13 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.  

16.    

Statutory
    Financial Data  

Statutory surplus and net income (loss) for General Insurance
    and Life Insurance   Retirement Services operations in
    accordance with statutory accounting practices were as
    follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    297 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(a)   

Statutory surplus and net income (loss) with respect to
    foreign operations are estimated at November 30. The basis
    of presentation for branches of AIA is the Hong Kong statutory
    filing basis. The basis of presentation for branches of ALICO is
    the U.S. statutory filing basis. AIG Star Life, AIG Edison Life,
    Nan Shan and Philamlife are estimated based on their respective
    local country filing basis.  

AIG s insurance subsidiaries file financial statements
    prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices
    prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance
    regulatory authorities. The principal differences between
    statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared
    in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are
    that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some
    bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, investment
    impairments are determined in accordance with statutory
    accounting practices, assets and liabilities are presented net
    of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are generally valued
    using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are
    non-admitted.

In connection with the filing of the 2005 statutory financial
    statements for AIG s domestic General Insurance companies,
    AIG agreed with the relevant state insurance regulators on the
    statutory accounting treatment of various items. The regulatory
    authorities have also permitted certain of the domestic and
    foreign insurance subsidiaries to support the carrying value of
    their investments in certain non-insurance and foreign insurance
    subsidiaries by utilizing the AIG audited consolidated financial
    statements to satisfy the requirement that the
    U.S. GAAP-basis equity of such entities be audited. AIG has
    received similar permitted practice authorizations from
    insurance regulatory authorities in connection with the 2008 and
    2007 statutory financial statements. The permitted practice
    resulted in a benefit to the surplus of the domestic and foreign
    General Insurance companies of $114 million and
    $859 million, respectively, and did not affect compliance
    with minimum regulatory capital requirements.

At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, statutory capital of
    AIG s insurance subsidiaries exceeded minimum company
    action level requirements.

Effective October 1, 2008, certain Domestic Life
    Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services insurance
    entities adopted a change in their statutory accounting
    practices for other-than-temporary impairments from one
    acceptable method to another for  Bonds other than
    loan-backed and structured securities  and for
     Loan-backed and structured securities . The effect of
    the new practice was to reduce other-than-temporary impairments
    for statutory reporting purposes in the fourth quarter of 2008,
    thereby increasing statutory surplus for these entities by
    approximately $7 billion as of December 31, 2008.

Effective January 1, 2009, these Domestic Life Insurance
    and Domestic Retirement Services insurance entities, as well as
    certain other AIG insurance entities are required to
    prospectively adopt SSAP 98,  Treatment of Cash Flows When
    Quantifying Changes in Valuation and Impairments, an Amendment
    of SSAP No. 43   Loan-backed and Structured
    Securities  (SSAP 98). The effect of applying SSAP 98 has
    not yet been determined, but could decrease statutory surplus
    for these entities by an amount that could be significant. Even
    if this 2009 decrease is significant, AIG expects the statutory
    surplus of such insurance subsidiaries to exceed minimum company
    action level requirements.

17.    

Share-based
    Employee Compensation Plans   

During the year ended December 31, 2008, AIG employees had
    received compensation pursuant to awards under seven different
    share-based employee compensation plans:

(i) AIG 1999 Stock Option Plan, as amended (1999 Plan);

(ii) AIG 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended
    (1996 Plan)   the subscriptions were cancelled from
    October 2007 based on the current market value of the common
    stock of AIG;

(iii) AIG 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2002 Plan)
    under which AIG has issued time-vested restricted stock units
    (RSUs) and performance restricted stock units (performance RSUs);

298    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(iv) AIG 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2007 Plan);

(v) SICO s Deferred Compensation Profit Participation
    Plans (SICO Plans);

(vi) AIG s
     2005-2006 
    Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan (AIG
    DCPPP)   the AIG DCPPP was adopted as a replacement
    for the SICO Plans for the
     2005-2006 
    period. Share-based employee compensation earned under the AIG
    DCPPP was granted as time-vested RSUs under the 2002
    Plan; and

(vii) The AIG Partners Plan replaced the AIG DCPPP.
    Share-based employee compensation awarded under the AIG Partners
    Plan was granted as performance-based RSUs under the 2002 Plan,
    except for the December 2007 grant which was made under the 2007
    Plan.

Although awards granted under all the plans described above
    remained outstanding at December 31, 2008, future grants of
    options, RSUs and performance RSUs can be made only under the
    2007 Plan. AIG currently settles share option exercises and
    other share awards to participants by issuing shares it
    previously acquired and holds in its treasury account, except
    for share awards made by SICO, which are settled by SICO.

In 2006 and for prior years, AIG s non-employee directors
    received share-based compensation in the form of options granted
    pursuant to the 1999 Plan and grants of AIG common stock with
    delivery deferred until retirement from the Board pursuant to
    the AIG Director Stock Plan, which was approved by the
    shareholders at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
    which is now a subplan under the 2007 Plan. From and after
    May 16, 2007, non-employee directors receive deferred stock
    units (DSUs) under the 2007 Plan with delivery deferred until
    retirement from the Board.

Effective January 1, 2006, AIG adopted the fair value
    recognition provisions of FAS 123R for share-based
    compensation awarded to employees and recorded the cumulative
    effect of adoption of $46 million as a cumulative effect of
    change in accounting principles, net of tax.

Included in AIG s consolidated statement of income for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was pre-tax
    share-based compensation expense of $389 million,
    $275 million, and $353 million, respectively.

1999
    Stock Option Plan   

The 1999 Plan was approved by the shareholders at the 2000
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders, with certain amendments approved
    at the 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The 1999 Plan
    superseded the 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan (the 1991 Plan),
    although outstanding options granted under the 1991 Plan
    continue until exercise or expiration. Options granted under the
    1999 Plan generally vest over four years (25 percent
    vesting per year) and expire 10 years from the date of
    grant. The 2007 Plan supersedes the 1999 Plan.

At December 31, 2008, 34,265,635 shares were reserved
    for issuance under the 1999 and 1991 Plans and there are no
    shares reserved for future grants under the 1999 Plan.

Deferrals   

At December 31, 2008, AIG was obligated to issue
    12,341,489 shares in connection with previous exercises of
    options with delivery deferred.

Valuation   

AIG uses a binomial lattice model to calculate the fair value of
    stock option grants. A more detailed description of the
    valuation methodology is provided below.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    299 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following weighted-average assumptions were used for
    stock options granted: 

(a)   

The dividend yield is determined at the grant date.  

(b)   

In 2008, expected volatility is the average of historical
    volatility (based on seven years of daily stock price changes)
    and the implied volatility of actively traded options on AIG
    shares.  

(c)   

The interest rate curves used in the valuation model were the
    U.S. Treasury STRIP rates with terms from 3 months to
    10 years.  

(d)   

In 2008, the expected term is 4 years based on the
    average time to exercise derived from the output of the
    valuation model. In 2007 and 2006, the contractual term of the
    option was generally 10 years with an expected term of
    7 years calculated based on an analysis of historical
    employee and executive exercise behavior and employee turnover
    (post-vesting terminations). The early exercise rate is a
    function of time elapsed since the grant. Fifteen years of
    historical data were used to estimate the early exercise
    rate.  

Additional information with respect to AIG s stock
    option plans is as follows: 

Vested and expected-to-vest options at December 31, 2008,
    included in the table above, totaled 32,962,793, with a weighted
    average exercise price of $64.46, a weighted average contractual
    life of 3.91 years and a zero aggregate intrinsic value.

At December 31, 2008, total unrecognized compensation cost
    (net of expected forfeitures) was $48 million with a
    blended weighted average period of 1.09 years. The cost of
    awards outstanding under these plans at December 31, 2008
    is expected to be recognized over approximately three years.

The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2008, 2007 and
    2006 was approximately $2 million, $360 million, and
    $215 million, respectively. The grant date fair value of
    options vesting during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately
    $67 million, $63 million and $97 million,
    respectively. AIG received $16 million, $482 million
    and $104 million in cash during 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, from the exercise of stock options. The tax
    benefits realized as a result of stock option exercises were
    $0.5 million, $16 million and $35 million in
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The weighted average grant
    date fair values of options granted was $10.61, $20.97 and
    $23.41 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

300    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan   

AIG s 1996 Plan provides that eligible employees (those
    employed at least one year) may receive privileges to purchase
    up to an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of AIG common
    stock, at a price equal to 85 percent of the fair market
    value on the date of the grant of the purchase privilege.
    Purchase privileges are granted quarterly and are limited to the
    number of whole shares that can be purchased on an annual basis
    by an amount equal to the lesser of 10 percent of an
    employee s annual salary or $10,000.

2002
    Stock Incentive Plan   

The 2002 Plan was adopted at the 2002 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders and amended and restated by AIG s Board of
    Directors on September 18, 2002. During 2007, 179,106 RSUs,
    including performance RSUs, were granted under the 2002 Plan.
    Because the 2002 Plan has been superseded by the 2007 Plan,
    there were no shares reserved for issuance in connection with
    future awards at December 31, 2008 other than incremental
    amounts awarded for attaining specified criteria under the AIG
    DCPPP. Prior to March 2008, substantially all time-vested RSUs
    granted under the 2002 Plan were scheduled to vest on the fourth
    anniversary of the date of grant. Effective March 2008, the
    vesting of the  December 2005 and 2006 grants was accelerated to
    vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.

2007
    Stock Incentive Plan   

The 2007 Plan was adopted at the 2007 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders and amended and restated by AIG s Board of
    Directors on November 14, 2007. The total number of shares
    of common stock that may be issued under the Plan is
    180,000,000. The 2007 Plan supersedes the 1999 Plan and the 2002
    Plan. During 2008 and 2007, 1,533,998 and 7,121,252 RSUs,
    respectively, including performance RSUs, were granted under the
    2007 Plan. Each RSU, performance RSU and DSU awarded reduces the
    number of shares available for future grants by 2.9 shares.
    At December 31, 2008, there were 163,745,561 shares
    reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan. A significant
    majority of the time-vested RSUs granted in 2008 under the 2007
    Plan vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.

Certain stock options granted in 2008 included a condition under
    which AIG s stock price had to exceed specific price levels
    for 15 consecutive trading days in order to vest.

Non-Employee
    Director Stock Awards   

The methodology used for valuing employee stock options is also
    used to value director stock options. Director stock options
    vest one year after the grant date, but are otherwise the same
    as employee stock options. Commencing in 2007, directors no
    longer receive awards of options. Options with respect to
    40,000 shares were granted during 2006.

In 2008, AIG granted to directors 127,070 DSUs, including DSUs
    representing dividend-equivalent amounts. AIG also granted to
    directors 6,375 shares and 14,000 shares, with
    delivery deferred, during 2007 and 2006, respectively, under the
    Director Stock Plan. There were no deferred shares granted in
    2008.

SICO
    Plans   

The SICO Plans provide that shares of AIG common stock currently
    held by SICO are set aside for the benefit of the participant
    and distributed upon retirement. The SICO Board of Directors
    currently may permit an early payout of shares under certain
    circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not entitled
    to vote, dispose of or receive dividends with respect to such
    shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain
    conditions, including but not limited to the participant s
    termination of employment with AIG prior to normal retirement
    age.

The SICO Plans are also described in Note 14 herein.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    301 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Although none of the costs of the various benefits provided
    under the SICO Plans have been paid by AIG, AIG has recorded
    compensation expense for the deferred compensation amounts
    payable to AIG employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount
    credited to additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts deemed
    contributed by SICO.

A significant portion of the awards under the SICO Plans vest
    the year after the participant reaches age 65, provided
    that the participant remains employed by AIG through
    age 65. The portion of the awards for which early payout is
    available vest on the applicable payout date.

AIG
    DCPPP   

The AIG DCPPP provides share-based compensation to key AIG
    employees, including senior executive officers.

The AIG DCPPP contingently allocated a fixed number of
    time-vested RSUs to each participant if AIG s cumulative
    adjusted earnings per share in 2005 and 2006 exceeded that in
    2003 and 2004 as determined by AIG s Compensation
    Committee. This goal was met, and pursuant to the terms of the
    DCPPP, 3,696,836 time-vested RSUs were awarded in 2007. Due to
    the modification in March 2008, the vesting periods for these
    RSUs have been shortened to vest in three installments with the
    final installment vesting in January 2012.

At December 31, 2008, RSU awards with respect to
    2,987,955 shares remained outstanding.

AIG
    Partners Plan   

On June 26, 2006, AIG s Compensation Committee
    approved two grants under the AIG Partners Plan. The first grant
    had a performance period that ran from January 1, 2006
    through December 31, 2007. The second grant has a
    performance period that runs from January 1, 2007 through
    December 31, 2008. In December 2007, the Compensation
    Committee approved a grant with a performance period from
    January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009. The
    Compensation Committee approved the performance metrics for this
    grant in the first quarter of 2008. The first and the second
    grants vest 50 percent on the fourth and sixth
    anniversaries of the first day of the related performance
    period. The third grant vests 50 percent on the third and
    fourth anniversaries of the first day of the performance period.
    The Compensation Committee approved the performance metrics for
    the first two grants prior to the date of grant. The measurement
    of the first two grants is deemed to have occurred on
    June 26, 2006 when there was mutual understanding of the
    key terms and conditions of the first two grants. All grants
    were modified in March 2008. In 2008, no compensation cost was
    recognized for the second and the third grants under the
    Partners Plan because the performance threshold for these awards
    was not met. In 2007, no compensation cost was recognized, and
    the compensation cost recognized in 2006 was reversed for the
    first grant under the Partners Plan because the performance
    threshold for these awards was not met.

Valuation   

The fair value of RSUs and performance RSUs is based on the
    closing price of AIG stock on the date of grant.

302    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents a summary of shares relating to
    outstanding awards unvested under the foregoing plans* :

*  

Options are reported under the Additional information with
    respect to AIG s stock option plans table above. DSUs are
    reported under Non-Employee Director Stock Awards. For the AIG
    DCPPP, includes all incremental shares granted or to be
    granted.  

The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected
    forfeitures) related to non-vested share-based compensation
    awards granted under the 2002 Plan, the 2007 Plan, the AIG
    DCPPP, the AIG Partners Plan and the SICO Plans and the
    weighted-average periods over which those costs are expected to
    be recognized are as follows: 

Modifications  

During the first quarter of 2008, AIG reviewed the vesting
    schedules of its share-based employee compensation plans, and on
    March 11, 2008, AIG s management and the Compensation
    and Management Resources Committee of AIG s Board of
    Directors determined that, to fulfill the objective of
    attracting and retaining high quality personnel, the vesting
    schedules of certain awards outstanding under these plans and
    all awards made in the future under these plans should be
    shortened. AIG also modified the metrics used to determine the
    level of performance achieved with respect to the AIG Partners
    Plan.

For accounting purposes, a modification of the terms or
    conditions of an equity award is treated as an exchange of the
    original award for a new award. As a result of this
    modification, the incremental value related to the remaining
    affected awards totaled $21 million and will, together with
    the unamortized originally-measured compensation cost, be
    amortized over shorter periods. The modifications increased the
    net amortization of this cost by $98 million in 2008. AIG
    estimates the modifications will increase the amortization of
    this cost by $43 million in 2009, with a related reduction
    in amortization expense of $120 million in 2010 through
    2013.

Pension
    Plans  

AIG, its subsidiaries and certain affiliated companies offer
    various defined benefit plans to eligible employees based on
    either completion of a specified period of continuous service or
    date of hire, subject to age limitations.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    303 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG s U.S. qualified retirement plans are
    noncontributory defined benefit plans which are subject to the
    provisions of ERISA. U.S. salaried employees who are
    employed by a participating company, have attained age 21
    and completed twelve months of continuous service are eligible
    to participate in the plans. Employees generally vest after
    5 years of service. Unreduced benefits are paid to retirees
    at normal retirement (age 65) and are based upon a
    percentage of final average compensation multiplied by years of
    credited service, up to 44 years.
     Non-U.S. defined 
    benefit plans are generally either based on the employee s
    years of credited service and compensation in the years
    preceding retirement or on points accumulated based on the
    employee s job grade and other factors during each year of
    service.

In 2007, AIG acquired the outstanding minority interest of
    21st Century. Assets, obligations and costs with respect to
    21st Century s plans are included herein. The
    assumptions used by 21st Century in its plans were not
    significantly different from those used by AIG in AIG s
    U.S. plans.

AIG also sponsors several unfunded defined benefit plans for
    certain employees, including key executives, designed to
    supplement pension benefits provided by AIG s other
    retirement plans. These include the AIG Excess Retirement Income
    Plan, which provides a benefit equal to the reduction in
    benefits payable to certain employees under the AIG
    U.S. retirement plan as a result of federal tax limitations
    on compensation and benefits payable and the Supplemental
    Executive Retirement Plan, which provides additional retirement
    benefits to designated executives. Under the Supplemental Plan,
    an annual benefit accrues at a percentage of final average pay
    multiplied by each year of credited service, not greater than
    60 percent of final average pay, reduced by any benefits
    from the current and any predecessor retirement plans (including
    the AIG Excess Retirement Income Plan and any comparable plans),
    Social Security, if any, and from any qualified pension plan of
    prior employers.

Postretirement
    Plans  

AIG and its subsidiaries also provide postretirement medical
    care and life insurance benefits in the U.S. and in certain
     non-U.S. countries. 
    Eligibility in the various plans is generally based upon
    completion of a specified period of eligible service and
    attaining a specified age. Overseas, benefits vary by geographic
    location.

U.S. postretirement medical and life insurance benefits are
    based upon the employee electing immediate retirement and having
    a minimum of ten years of service. Medical benefits are
    contributory, while the life insurance benefits are
    non-contributory. Retiree medical contributions vary with age
    and length of service and range from requiring no cost for
    pre-1989 retirees to requiring actual premium payments reduced
    by certain credits for post-1993 retirees. These contributions
    are subject to adjustment annually. Other cost sharing features
    of the medical plan include deductibles, coinsurance, Medicare
    coordination and a lifetime maximum benefit of $2 million.

The following table presents the funded status of the plans,
    reconciled to the amount reported in the consolidated balance
    sheet. The measurement date for some of the
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension and postretirement plans is November 30,
    consistent with the fiscal year-end of the sponsoring companies.
    For all other plans, measurement occurs as of December 31,
    2008. 

304    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(a)   

AIG does not currently fund postretirement benefits.  

(b)   

Includes unfunded plans for which the aggregate pension
    benefit obligation was $859 million and $559 million
    at December 2008 and 2007, respectively. For 2008 and 2007,
    approximately 82 percent and 83 percent pertain to
    Japanese plans, which are not required by local regulation to be
    funded. The projected benefit obligation for these plans total
    $702 million and $464 million, respectively.  

(c)   

Includes non-qualified unfunded plans, for which the
    aggregate projected benefit obligation was $270 million and
    $240 million at December 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

The accumulated benefit obligations for both
     non-U.S. and 
    U.S. pension benefit plans were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    305 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Defined benefit pension plan obligations in which the
    projected benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan
    assets and in which the accumulated benefit obligation was in
    excess of the related plan assets were as follows: 

The following table presents the components of net periodic
    benefit cost recognized in income and other amounts recognized
    in Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss with respect to
    the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement
    benefit plans: 

The estimated net loss and prior service credit that will be
    amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income into net
    periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are
    $136 million and $12 million, respectively, for
    AIG s combined defined benefit pension plans. For the
    defined benefit postretirement plans, the estimated amortization
    from Accumulated other comprehensive income for net loss, prior
    service credit and transition obligation that will be amortized
    into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year will be
    less than $2 million in the aggregate.

The annual pension expense in 2009 for the AIG U.S. Retirement
    Plan is expected to be approximately $239 million. A
    100 basis point increase in the discount rate or expected
    long-term rate of return would decrease the 2009 expense by
    approximately $65 million and $27 million,
    respectively, with all other items remaining the same.
    Conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rate
    or expected long-term rate of return would increase the 2009
    expense by approximately $84 million and $27 million,
    respectively, with all other items remaining the same.

306    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assumptions  

The weighted average assumptions used to determine the
    benefit obligations are as follows: 

The benefit obligations for
     non-U.S. plans 
    reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the
    local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries
    providing such benefits.

Assumed health care cost trend rates for the U.S. plans
    were as follows: 

A one percent point change in the assumed healthcare cost
    trend rate would have the following effect on AIG s
    postretirement benefit obligations: 

AIG s postretirement plans provide benefits primarily in
    the form of defined employer contributions rather than defined
    employer benefits. Changes in the assumed healthcare cost trend
    rate are subject to caps for U.S. plans. AIG s
     non-U.S. postretirement 
    plans are not subject to caps.

The weighted average assumptions used to determine the net
    periodic benefit costs were as follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    307 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

*  
     
     The benefit obligations for
     non-U.S. 
    plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for
    the local economic environments of the subsidiaries providing
    such benefits. 

Discount
    Rate Methodology  

The projected benefit cash flows under the U.S. AIG
    Retirement Plan were discounted using the spot rates derived
    from the unadjusted Citigroup Pension Discount Curve at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 and an equivalent single
    discount rate was derived that resulted in the same liability.
    This single discount rate was rounded to the nearest
    25 basis points, namely 6.0 percent and
    6.5 percent at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The rates applied to other U.S. plans were
    not significantly different from those discussed above.

In general, the discount rate for
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans are selected by reference to high quality corporate bonds
    in developed markets, or local government bonds where developed
    markets are not as robust or nonexistent. Both funded and
    unfunded plans for Japan represent over 71 percent and
    62 percent of the liabilities of AIG s
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
    discount rate of 2.0 percent for Japan was selected by
    reference to the published Moody s/S P AA Corporate
    Bond Universe at the measurement date having regard to the
    duration of the plans  liabilities.

Plan
    Assets  

The investment strategy with respect to assets relating to
    AIG s U.S. pension plans is designed to achieve
    investment returns that will fully fund the pension plans over
    the long term, while limiting the risk of under funding over
    shorter time periods and defray plan expenses. Accordingly, the
    asset allocation is targeted to maximize the investment rate of
    return while managing various risk factors, including the risk
    and rewards profile indigenous to each asset class. Plan assets
    are periodically monitored by both the investment committee of
    AIG s Retirement Board and the investment managers, which
    can entail rebalancing the plans  assets within
    pre-approved ranges, as deemed appropriate. For example, as a
    result of the disruption in the financial markets, AIG opted to
    terminate the pension plans  securities lending activities
    in 2008, to mitigate losses.

The expected long-term rates of return for AIG s
    U.S. pension plans were 7.75 and 8.00 percent for the
    years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These
    rates of return are an aggregation of expected returns within
    each asset category that, when combined with AIG s
    contribution to the plan, are expected to maintain the
    plan s ability to meet all required benefit obligations.
    The return with respect to each asset class was developed based
    on a building block approach that considers both historical
    returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the
    expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of
    the expected rate of return is long-term and thus not expected
    to change annually, significant changes in investment strategy
    or economic conditions may warrant such a change.

Non-U.S. pension 
    plan assets are held in various trusts and are similarly
    invested in equity, debt and other investments to maximize the
    long-term return on assets for a given level of risk. Other
    investments for both the U.S. and
     Non-U.S. plans 
    includes cash, insurance contracts, real estate, private equity,
    related party group annuity

308    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and hedge funds asset classes. The related party group annuity
    is with US Life, an AIG affiliate, and totaled approximately
    $36 million and $38 million at December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. There were no shares of AIG common stock
    included in the U.S. pension plan assets at
    December 31, 2008 or 2007.

The asset allocation percentage by major asset class for
    AIG s plans and the target allocation follow: 

Expected
    Cash Flows  

Funding for the U.S. pension plan ranges from the minimum
    amount required by ERISA to the maximum amount that would be
    deductible for U.S. tax purposes. This range is generally
    not determined until the fourth quarter. Contributed amounts in
    excess of the minimum amounts are deemed voluntary. Amounts in
    excess of the maximum amount would be subject to an excise tax
    and may not be deductible under the Internal Revenue Code.
    Supplemental and excess plans  payments and postretirement
    plan payments are deductible when paid.

During 2008 AIG contributed $174 million to its
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans. The annual pension contribution in 2009 is expected to be
    approximately $600 million for U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans. 
    These estimates are subject to change, since contribution
    decisions are affected by various factors including AIG s
    liquidity, asset dispositions, market performance and
    management s discretion.

As of January 1, 2009, AIG anticipates that the U.S.
    pension plan s funded status based on the Pension
    Protection Act of 2006 target liability will exceed
    94 percent. As a result, AIG does not anticipate any
    benefit restrictions or shortfall amortization relevant to the
    current period.

The expected future benefit payments, net of
    participants  contributions, with respect to the defined
    benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans,
    are as follows: 

Defined
    Contribution Plans  

In addition to several small defined contribution plans, AIG
    sponsors a voluntary savings plan for U.S. employees which
    provides for salary reduction contributions by employees and
    matching U.S. contributions by

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    309 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

AIG of up to seven percent of annual salary depending on the
    employees  years of service. Pre-tax expense associated
    with this plan was $124 million, $114 million and
    $104 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

19.    

Ownership
    and Transactions With Related Parties  

(a) Ownership:   According to the
    Schedule 13D filed on January 22, 2009 by Maurice R.
    Greenberg, Edward E. Matthews, Starr International Company,
    Inc., C.V. Starr   Co., Inc., Universal Foundation,
    Inc., The Maurice R. and Corinne P. Greenberg Family Foundation,
    Inc., Maurice R. and Corinne P. Greenberg Joint Tenancy Company,
    LLC and C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. Trust, these reporting
    persons could be deemed to beneficially own
    270,491,939 shares of AIG s common stock at that date.
    Based on the shares of AIG s common stock outstanding at
    January 30, 2009, this ownership would represent
    approximately 10.1 percent of the voting stock of AIG.
    Although these reporting persons have made filings under
    Section 16 of the Exchange Act, reporting sales of shares
    of common stock, no amendment to the Schedule 13D has been
    filed to report a change in ownership subsequent to
    January 22, 2009.

(b)   For discussion of the Series C
    Preferred Stock and the ownership by the Trust for the sole
    benefit of the United States Treasury of a majority of the
    voting equity interest of AIG, see Note 15 herein.

20.    

Federal
    Income Taxes  

The pretax components of U.S. and foreign income reflect
    the locations in which such pretax income (loss) was generated.
    The pretax U.S. and foreign income (loss) was as
    follows: 

The provision for income taxes were as follows: 

310    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The U.S. federal income tax rate was 35 percent for
    2008, 2007 and 2006. Actual tax expense on income loss differs
    from the statutory amount computed by applying the federal
    income tax rate because of the following: 

The components of the net deferred tax asset were as
    follows: 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    311 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

*  

AIG has operating loss carryforwards as of December 31,
    2008 and 2007 in the amount of $47.3 billion and
    $4.5 billion, and unused foreign tax credits of
    $2.2 billion and $639 million, respectively. Net
    operating loss carryforwards may be carried forward for twenty
    years while unused foreign tax credits may be carried forward
    for ten years. As of December 31, 2008, AIG has capital
    loss carryforwards of $20.9 billion, which will expire in
    five years. AIG has recorded deferred tax assets for general
    business credits of $260 million and $56 million, and
    deferred tax assets for minimum tax credits of $250 million
    and $101 million for the years ending December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Unused general business credits
    will expire in twenty years, while unused minimum tax credits
    are available for future use without expiration.  

Valuation
    Allowances  

At December 31, 2008, AIG recorded a net deferred tax asset
    after valuation allowance of $11 billion compared to a net
    deferred tax liability of $5.3 billion at December 31,
    2007. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, AIG recorded deferred
    tax asset valuation allowances of $20.9 billion and
    $0.2 billion, respectively, to reduce net deferred tax
    assets to amounts AIG considered more likely than not (a
    likelihood of more than 50 percent) to be realized. Realization
    of AIG s net deferred tax asset depends on its ability to
    generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character
    within the carryforward periods of the jurisdictions in which
    the net operating and capital losses, deductible temporary
    differences and credits were incurred.

As of December 31, 2008, AIG had a cumulative loss for
    financial reporting purposes in recent years. When making its
    assessment about the realization of its deferred tax assets at
    December 31, 2008, AIG considered all available evidence,
    including (i) the nature, frequency, and severity of current and
    cumulative financial reporting losses, (ii) actions completed
    during 2008 and expected to be completed during 2009 that are
    designed to eliminate or limit a recurrence of the factors that
    contributed to the recent cumulative losses, giving greater
    weight to actions completed through December 31, 2008, and
    to the expectation that strategies will be executed in 2009 to
    mitigate credit losses in the future on certain classes of
    invested assets, (iii) the carryforward periods for the net
    operating and capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards,
    (iv) the sources and timing of future taxable income, giving
    greater weight to discrete sources and to earlier future years
    in the forecast period, and (v) tax planning strategies that
    would be implemented, if necessary, to accelerate taxable
    amounts.

Cumulative losses in recent years were principally related to
    securities losses, which included the super senior multi-sector
    CDS portfolio and the securities lending portfolio. In the
    fourth quarter of 2008, AIG entered into two transactions with
    the NY Fed (NY Fed Transactions) designed to provide solutions
    to the credit deterioration of the AIGFP multi-sector CDS
    portfolio and the securities lending portfolio. AIG expects
    these transactions to significantly limit future losses
    associated with the CDS portfolio and the securities lending
    portfolio.

312    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

On March 2, 2009, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury announced agreements in principle to
    modify the terms of the Fed Facility and the Series D
    Preferred Stock and provide a $30 billion equity capital
    commitment facility. The parties also announced their intention
    to take a number of other actions intended to strengthen
    AIG s capital position, enhance its liquidity, reduce its
    borrowing costs and facilitate AIG s asset disposition
    program. See Note 23 herein.

These transactions executed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and
    expected to be executed in 2009 were considered significant
    positive evidence that allowed management to conclude that a
    portion of AIG s deferred tax assets is more likely than
    not to be realizable. AIG also considered future income in the
    near term, tax gains from dispositions, and tax-planning
    strategies AIG would implement, if necessary, to realize the net
    deferred tax asset.

In view of the announcement on March 2, 2009 regarding
    agreements in principle with the United States Department of the
    Treasury and the NY Fed and other proposed arrangements with the
    NY Fed, as well as AIG s projections of income, gain, and
    loss, AIG s Management has concluded that
    $11.0 billion of net deferred tax assets are recoverable at
    December 31, 2008 and accordingly established a valuation
    allowance of $20.9 billion as of December 31, 2008 in
    order to reduce AIG s deferred tax assets to an amount that
    is more likely than not to be realized.

In evaluating the realizability of the loss carryforwards, AIG
    considered the relief provided by IRS Notice 2008-84 which
    provides that the limitation on loss carryforwards that can
    arise as a result of one or more acquisitions of stock of a loss
    company will not apply to such stock acquisitions for any period
    during which the United States becomes a direct or indirect
    owner of more than 50 percent interest in the loss company.

At December 31, 2008, AIG has recorded deferred tax assets
    related to stock compensation of $239 million. Due to the
    significant decline in AIG s stock price, these deferred
    tax assets may not be realizable in the future. FAS 123(R)
    precludes AIG from recognizing an impairment charge on these
    assets until the related stock awards are either exercised,
    vested or expired. Any charge associated with the deferred tax
    asset would likely be reflected in additional paid-in capital
    rather than income tax expense.

Undistributed
    Earnings   

During 2008, AIG recorded $3.9 billion of deferred tax
    expense attributable to the undistributed earnings of its
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    and $0.7 billion attributable to its
    U.S. subsidiaries. Deferred tax expense for its
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    recorded in 2008 is related to current year activity as well as
    deferred taxes that previously were not provided because the
    earnings were considered to be reinvested indefinitely. At
    December 31, 2008, AIG has provided deferred taxes related
    to all the undistributed earnings of its
     non-U.S. subsidiaries. 

Tax
    Filings and Examinations   

AIG and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated
    U.S. federal income tax return. Several
    U.S. subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial
    statements file separate U.S. federal income tax returns
    and are not part of the AIG U.S. consolidated income tax
    group. Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are taxed,
    and income tax expense is recorded, based on applicable
    U.S. and foreign law.

The statute of limitations for all tax years prior to 2000 has
    now expired for AIG s consolidated federal income tax
    return. AIG is currently under examination for the tax years
    2000 through 2002.

In April 2008, AIG filed a refund claim for years 1997 through
    2006. A refund claim filed in June 2007 for years 1991 through
    1996 is still pending. These refund claims relate to the tax
    effects of the restatements of AIG s 2004 and prior
    financial statements.

On March 20, 2008, AIG received a Statutory Notice of
    Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS for years 1997 to 1999. The
    Notice asserted that AIG owes additional taxes and penalties for
    these years primarily due to the disallowance of foreign tax
    credits associated with cross-border financing transactions. The
    transactions that are the subject of the Notice extend beyond
    the period covered by the Notice, and it is likely that the IRS
    will seek to challenge these later periods. It is also possible
    that the IRS will consider other transactions to be similar to
    these

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    313 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

transactions. AIG has paid the assessed tax plus interest and
    penalties for 1997 and has filed a claim for refund. On
    February 26, 2009, AIG filed suit for a refund in the
    United States District Court for the Southern District of New
    York. AIG has also paid additional taxes, interest, and
    penalties assessed for 1998 and 1999. AIG will vigorously defend
    its position, and continues to believe that it has adequate
    reserves for any liability that could result from the IRS
    actions.

On October 6, 2008, AIG notified the IRS of its decision to
    participate in an IRS settlement initiative with respect to
    certain tax payers that participated in targeted leasing
    transactions. In accordance with FIN 48 and
     FSP 13-2, 
    AIG recorded an after-tax charge of $110 million for this
    matter in 2008.

FIN 48   

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the
    total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as
    follows: 

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, AIG s unrecognized
    tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, were
    $3.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. As of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, AIG s unrecognized tax
    benefits included $665 million and $299 million,
    respectively, related to tax positions the disallowance of which
    would not affect the effective tax rate. Accordingly, as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the amounts of unrecognized tax
    benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the
    effective tax rate were $2.7 billion and $1.0 billion,
    respectively.

Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are
    recognized in income tax expense. At December 31, 2008 and
    2007, AIG had accrued $426 million and $281 million,
    respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal
    benefit) and penalties. For the years ended December 31,
    2008 and 2007, AIG recognized $201 million and
    $170 million, respectively, of interest (net of the federal
    benefit) and penalties in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

AIG continually evaluates adjustments proposed by taxing
    authorities. At December 31, 2008, such proposed
    adjustments would not result in a material change to AIG s
    consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that
    the effect could be material to AIG s consolidated results
    of operations for an individual reporting period Although it is
    reasonably possible that a significant change in the balance of
    unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next twelve
    months, at this time it is not possible to estimate the range of
    the change due to the uncertainty of the potential outcomes.

314    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Listed below are the tax years that remain subject to
    examination by major tax jurisdictions: 

The reserve for Uncertain Tax Position increased in 2008 by
    approximately $2 billion primarily relating to expenses
    incurred in connection with the Federal Facility and foreign tax
    credits associated with cross border financing transactions.

21.    

Quarterly
    Financial Information (Unaudited)  

The following quarterly financial information for each of the
    three months ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 is unaudited. However, in the
    opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting only of
    normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair statement of
    the results of operations for such periods have been made.

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations   

(a)   

Both revenues and income (loss) before income taxes and
    minority interest include (i) an unrealized market
    valuation loss of $9.1 billion, $5.6 billion,
    $7.1 billion, and $6.9 billion, in the first, second,
    third and fourth quarter of 2008, respectively, and
    $352 million and $11.1 billion in the third and fourth
    quarter of 2007, respectively, on AIGFP s super senior
    credit default swap portfolio and (ii) other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $5.6 billion, $6.8 billion,
    $19.9 billion, and $18.6 billion in the first, second,
    third and fourth quarter of 2008, respectively, and
    $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    315 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(b)   

In the fourth quarter of 2008, both revenues and income
    (loss) before income taxes and minority interest include a
    credit valuation adjustment loss of $7.8 billion.  

(c)   

In 2008, includes a $20.6 billion valuation allowance to
    reduce AIG s deferred tax asset to an amount AIG believes
    is more likely than not to be realized, and a $5.5 billion
    deferred tax expense attributable to the potential sale of
    foreign businesses.  

22.    

Information
    Provided in Connection With Outstanding Debt  

The following condensed consolidating financial statements
    reflect the results of AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. (AIGLH),
    formerly known as American General Corporation, a holding
    company and a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG. AIG provides a
    full and unconditional guarantee of all outstanding debt of
    AIGLH.

In addition, AIG Liquidity Corp. and AIG Program Funding, Inc.
    are both wholly owned subsidiaries of AIG. AIG provides a full
    and unconditional guarantee of all obligations of AIG Liquidity
    Corp. and AIG Program Funding, Inc. There are no reportable
    amounts for these entities.

316    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Condensed
    Consolidating Balance Sheet   

(a)   

Includes intercompany derivative positions, which are
    reported at fair value before credit valuation adjustment.  

(b)   

Eliminated in consolidation.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    317 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Condensed
    Consolidating Statement of Income (Loss)   

(a)   

Eliminated in consolidation.  

(b)   

Income taxes recorded by the Parent company include deferred
    tax expense attributable to the potential sale of foreign and
    domestic businesses and a valuation allowance to reduce the
    consolidated deferred tax asset to the amount more likely than
    not to be realized. See Note 20 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information.  

318    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Condensed
    Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows   

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    319 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

320    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Supplementary disclosure of cash flow information: 

Years Ended December 31, 

2008 

2007 

(In millions) 

Intercompany non-cash financing/investing activities: 

Settlement of repurchase agreement with loan receivable

$ 

3,160 

$

Capital contributions in the form of bonds

3,160 

Loans receivable forgiven through capital contributions

11,350 

Other non-cash capital contributions to subsidiaries

513 

During the second quarter of 2008, AIG made certain revisions to
    the American International Group, Inc. (as Guarantor) Condensed
    Statement of Cash Flows, primarily relating to the effect of
    reclassifying certain intercompany and securities lending
    balances. Accordingly, AIG revised the previous periods
    presented to conform to the revised presentation. There was no
    effect on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows or ending
    cash balances.

The revisions and their effect on the American International
    Group, Inc. (as Guarantor) Condensed Statement of Cash Flows for
    the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as
    follows: 

March
    2009 Agreements in Principle   

On March 2, 2009, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury announced agreements in principle to
    modify the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement and the
    Series D Preferred Stock and to provide a $30 billion
    equity capital commitment facility.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    321 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Modification
    to Series D Preferred Stock   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the United States Department of
    the Treasury announced their agreement in principle to enter
    into a transaction pursuant to which the United States
    Department of the Treasury would modify the terms of the
    Series D Preferred Stock. The modification will be effected
    by an exchange of 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
    Series D Preferred Stock for newly issued perpetual serial
    preferred stock (Series E Preferred Stock), with a
    liquidation preference equal to the issuance-date liquidation
    preference of the Series D Preferred Stock surrendered plus
    accumulated but unpaid dividends thereon. The terms of the
    Series E Preferred Stock will be the same as for the
    Series D Preferred Stock except that the dividends will not
    be cumulative. The Series D Preferred Stock bore cumulative
    dividends.

The dividend rate on both the cumulative Series D Preferred
    Stock and the non-cumulative Series E Preferred Stock is
    10 percent per annum. Concurrent with the exchange of the
    shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the Series E
    Preferred Stock, AIG will enter into a replacement capital
    covenant in favor of the holders of a series of AIG debt,
    pursuant to which AIG will agree that prior to the third
    anniversary of the issuance of the Series E Preferred Stock
    AIG will not repay, redeem or purchase, and no subsidiary of AIG
    will purchase, all or any part of the Series E Preferred
    Stock except with the proceeds obtained from the issuance by AIG
    or any subsidiary of AIG of certain capital securities. AIG will
    make a statement of intent substantially similar to the
    replacement capital covenant with respect to subsequent years.
    The Series D Preferred Stock was not subject to a
    replacement capital covenant.

Equity
    Capital Commitment Facility   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the United States Department of
    the Treasury announced an agreement in principle to provide a
     5-year 
    equity capital commitment facility of $30 billion. AIG may
    use the facility to sell to the United States Department of the
    Treasury fixed-rate, non-cumulative perpetual serial preferred
    stock (Series F Preferred Stock). The facility will be
    available to AIG so long as AIG is not the debtor in a pending
    case under Title 11, United States Code, and the Trust (or
    any successor entity established for the benefit of the United
    States Treasury)  beneficially owns  more than 50
    percent of the aggregate voting power of AIG s voting
    securities at the time of such drawdown.

The terms of the Series F Preferred Stock will be
    substantially similar to the Series E Preferred Stock,
    except that the Series F Preferred Stock will not be
    subject to a replacement capital covenant or the statement of
    intent.

In connection with the equity capital commitment facility, the
    United States Department of the Treasury will also receive
    warrants exercisable for a number of shares of common stock of
    AIG equal to 1 percent of AIG s then outstanding common
    stock and, upon issuance of the warrants, the dividends payable
    on, and the voting power of, the Series C Preferred Stock
    will be reduced by the number of shares subject to the warrant.

Repayment
    of Fed Facility with Subsidiary Preferred Equity   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their intent
    to enter into a transaction pursuant to which AIG will transfer
    to the NY Fed preferred equity interests in newly-formed special
    purpose vehicles (SPVs), in settlement of a portion of the
    outstanding balance of the Fed Facility. Each SPV will have
    (directly or indirectly) as its only asset 100 percent of the
    common stock of an AIG operating subsidiary (AIA in one case and
    ALICO in the other). AIG expects to own the common interests of
    each SPV. In exchange for the preferred equity interests
    received by the NY Fed, there would be a concurrent substantial
    reduction in the outstanding balance and maximum available
    amount to be borrowed on the Fed Facility.

Securitizations   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their intent
    to enter into a transaction pursuant to which AIG will issue to
    the NY Fed senior certificates in one or more newly-formed SPVs
    backed by inforce blocks of life insurance policies in
    settlement of a portion of the outstanding balance of the Fed
    Facility. The amount of the Fed

322    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Facility reduction will be based on the proceeds received. The
    SPVs are expected to be consolidated by AIG. These transfers are
    subject to agreement on definitive terms and regulatory
    approvals at a later date.

Modification
    to Fed Facility   

On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their
    agreement in principle to amend the Fed Credit Agreement to
    remove the interest rate floor. Under the current terms,
    interest accrues on the outstanding borrowings under the Fed
    Facility at three-month LIBOR (no less than 3.5 percent) plus
    3.0 percent per annum. The 3.5 percent LIBOR floor will be
    eliminated following the amendment. In addition, the Fed
    Facility will be amended to ensure that the total commitment
    will be at least $25 billion, even after giving effect to
    the repayment of the Fed Facility with subsidiary preferred
    equity and securitization transactions described above. These
    proceeds are expected to substantially reduce the outstanding
    borrowings under the Fed Facility from the amount outstanding as
    of December 31, 2008.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    323 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Part II  
    Other Information  

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed in reports filed or
    submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC
    rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and
    communicated to management, including the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosures. In connection with the
    preparation of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    an evaluation was carried out by AIG management, with the
    participation of AIG s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of AIG s disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)) as of
    December 31, 2008. Based on this evaluation, AIG s
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
    that AIG s disclosure controls and procedures were
    effective as of December 31, 2008.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

Management of AIG is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    AIG s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process, under the supervision of AIG s Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of AIG s financial statements
    for external purposes in accordance with GAAP.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

AIG management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of
    AIG s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2008 based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO).

AIG management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2008,
    AIG s internal control over financial reporting was
    effective based on the criteria in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.
    The effectiveness of AIG s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included in
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Remediation
    of Prior Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

AIG management previously identified and disclosed a material
    weakness in internal control over financial reporting relating
    to the fair value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit
    default swap portfolio and oversight thereof. A material
    weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in
    internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a
    reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of
    AIG s annual or interim financial statements will not be
    prevented or detected on a timely basis.

AIG has been actively engaged in the implementation of
    remediation efforts to address the material weakness in controls
    over fair value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit
    default swap portfolio and oversight thereof that was in
    existence at December 31, 2007. These remediation efforts,
    outlined below, were specifically designed to address the
    material weakness previously identified by AIG management.

AIG s remediation efforts were governed by a Steering
    Committee, under the direction of AIG s Chief Audit
    Executive and included AIG s Chief Risk Officer, Chief
    Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and

324    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Comptroller. The status of remediation was reviewed with the
    Audit Committee who was advised of issues encountered and key
    decisions reached by AIG management.

As of December 31, 2007, AIG did not maintain effective
    controls over the fair value valuation of the AIGFP super senior
    credit default swap portfolio and oversight thereof.
    Specifically, AIG had insufficient resources to design and carry
    out effective controls to prevent or detect errors and to
    determine appropriate disclosures on a timely basis with respect
    to the processes and models introduced in the fourth quarter of
    2007. As a result, AIG had not fully developed its controls to
    assess, on a timely basis, the relevance to its valuation of all
    third-party information. Also, controls to permit the
    appropriate oversight and monitoring of the AIGFP super senior
    credit default swap portfolio valuation process, including
    timely sharing of information at the appropriate levels of the
    organization, did not operate effectively. As a result, controls
    over the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio
    valuation process and oversight thereof were not adequate to
    prevent or detect misstatements in the accuracy of
    management s fair value estimates and disclosures on a
    timely basis.

During 2008, AIG management took the following actions to
    remediate this material weakness:

Created a framework, including allocation of roles and
    responsibilities, for the valuation and oversight for the
    valuation of the super senior credit default swap portfolio (the
    portfolio).

Designed and implemented enhanced controls over the valuation of
    the portfolio including assessing the relevance and impact of
    available third-party information and additional segregation of
    duties.

Ensured improved oversight and governance, including increased
    interaction with Corporate finance and risk management functions.

Enhanced communication by establishing formal reporting lines
    between key AIGFP functions and AIG Corporate counterparts.

Implemented a valuation control group within AIGFP to perform
    the controls, with appropriate allocation of qualified resources.

Developed new systems and processes to reduce the reliance on
    manual controls.

Documented the process and controls over the valuation approach.

Assessed the design and tested the operating effectiveness of
    the key controls over the fair value valuation process.

AIG continues to develop further enhancements to its controls
    over the fair value valuation of the AIG super senior credit
    default swap portfolio. Based upon the significant actions taken
    and the testing and evaluation of the effectiveness of the
    controls, AIG management has concluded the material weakness in
    AIG s controls over the AIGFP super senior credit default
    swap portfolio valuation process and oversight thereof no longer
    existed as of December 31, 2008.

Continuing
    Improvements to Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

AIG management recognizes the importance of continued attention
    to improving its internal controls related to the period end
    financial reporting and consolidation processes, investment
    accounting, income tax, and valuation processes. Additionally,
    in carrying out its restructuring plan, AIG is committed to
    ensuring that the manual controls that have been established
    remain effective and sustainable. To maintain effective and
    sustainable controls, AIG has implemented retention programs to
    seek to keep its key employees and has engaged third-party
    resources to supplement the efforts of AIG financial personnel.
    Furthermore, where consistent with the direction of its asset
    disposition plan, AIG is investing in new systems and processes
    which will allow it, over time, to reduce its reliance on manual
    controls.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

Changes in AIG s internal control over financial reporting
    during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, AIG s internal control over financial reporting
    have been described above.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    325 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

Part III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

Except for the information provided in Part I under the
    heading  Directors and Executive Officers of AIG ,
    information required by Item 10 of this
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement
    for AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will
    be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the
    close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Information required by Item 11 of this
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement
    for AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will
    be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the
    close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Information required by Item 12 of this
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement
    for AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will
    be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the
    close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

Information required by Item 13 of this
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement
    for AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will
    be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the
    close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services   

Information required by Item 14 of this
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement
    for AIG s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will
    be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the
    close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Part IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) Financial Statements and Schedules. See accompanying
    Index to Financial Statements.

(b) Exhibits. See accompanying Exhibit Index.

326    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
    duly caused this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized, on the 2nd of March, 2009.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By 

/s/   Edward
    M. Liddy 

(Edward M. Liddy, Chairman and

Chief Executive Officer)

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Edward M. Liddy
    and David L. Herzog, and each of them severally, his or her true
    and lawful attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and
    resubstitution, to sign in his or her name, place and stead, in
    any and all capacities, to do any and all things and execute any
    and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or
    advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    and any rules, regulations and requirements of the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and
    purposes as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby
    ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents,
    each acting alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may
    lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 2nd of
    March, 2009.

Signature 

Title 

/s/   Edward
    M. Liddy 

(Edward
    M. Liddy)

Chief Executive Officer and Director 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/   David
    L. Herzog 

(David
    L. Herzog)

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/   Joseph
    D. Cook 

(Joseph
    D. Cook)

Vice President and Comptroller 
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/   Stephen
    F. Bollenbach 

(Stephen
    F. Bollenbach)

Director

/s/   Dennis
    D. Dammerman 

(Dennis
    D. Dammerman)

Director

/s/   Martin
    S. Feldstein 

(Martin
    S. Feldstein)

Director

/s/   George
    L. Miles, Jr. 

(George
    L. Miles, Jr.)

Director

/s/   Suzanne
    Nora Johnson 

(Suzanne
    Nora Johnson)

Director

/s/   Morris
    W. Offit 

(Morris
    W. Offit)

Director

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    327 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Signature 

Title 

/s/   James
    F. Orr III 

(James
    F. Orr III)

Director

/s/   Virginia
    M. Rometty 

(Virginia
    M. Rometty)

Director

/s/   Michael
    H. Sutton 

(Michael
    H. Sutton)

Director

/s/   Edmund
    S.W. Tse 

(Edmund
    S.W. Tse)

Director

328    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

Location 

2

Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or
    succession

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 11, 2001,
    among American International Group, Inc., Washington Acquisition
    Corporation and American General Corporation

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1(i)(a) to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-62688).

3(i)(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AIG

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 (File
    No. 1-8787).

3(i)(b)

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of AIG,
    filed June 3, 1998

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
    1998 (File No. 1-8787).

3(i)(c)

Certificate of Merger of SunAmerica Inc. with and into AIG,
    filed December 30, 1998 and effective January 1, 1999

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (File
    No. 1-8787).

3(i)(d)

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of AIG,
    filed June 5, 2000

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i)(c) to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-45828).

3(i)(e)

Certificate of Designations of Series D Fixed Rate
    Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of AIG

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to AIG s Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 26, 2008 (File
    No. 1-8787).

3(i)(f)

Form of Certificate of Designations of Series C Perpetual,
    Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock of AIG

Filed herewith.

3(ii)(a)

AIG By-laws, amended January 16, 2008

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to AIG s Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 17, 2008 (File
    No. 1-8787).

4

Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
    indentures

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term
    debt securities of AIG and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant
    to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. AIG hereby undertakes
    to furnish to the Commission, upon request, copies of any such
    instruments.

(1) Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008,
    between AIG and Federal Reserve Bank of New York

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to AIG s Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 26, 2008
    (File No. 1-8787).

(2) Amendment No. 2, dated as of November 9,
    2008, to the Credit Agreement dated as of September 22,
    2008 between AIG and Federal Reserve Bank of New York

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(3) Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of
    November 25, 2008, between AIG and United States Department
    of the Treasury

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG s Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 26, 2008 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(4) Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1991, between
    International Lease Finance Corporation and U.S. Bank Trust
    National Association (successor to Continental Bank, National
    Association),  as supplemented

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (File
     No. 33-43698). 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    329 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

Location 

(5)

Indenture dated as of November 1, 2000, between International
    Lease Finance Corporation and the Bank of New York, as
    supplemented

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (File
     No. 333-49566). 

(6)

Indenture dated as of August 1, 2006, between International
    Lease Finance Corporation and Deutsche Bank Trust Company
    Americas

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (File
     No. 333-136681). 

(7)

Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 from American General Finance
    Corporation to Wilmington Trust Company (successor trustee to
    Citibank, N.A.)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)(1) to American
    General Finance Corporation s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2000 (File
     No. 1-06155). 

9

Voting Trust Agreement

None.

10

Material contracts

(1) AIG Amended and Restated 1996 Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan*

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement dated
    April 4, 2003 (File
     No. 1-8787) 
    and incorporated herein by reference.

(2) AIG 2003 Japan Employee Stock Purchase Plan*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-111737).

(3) AIG 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan*

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement dated
    April 4, 1997 (File
     No. 1-8787) 
    and incorporated herein by reference.

(4) AIG Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Option Plan*

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement dated
    April 4, 2003 (File
     No. 1-8787) 
    and incorporated herein by reference.

(5) Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the AIG
    Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Option Plan*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
    30, 2004 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(6) AIG Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan*

Filed herewith.

(7) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the
    AIG Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
    30, 2004 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(8) AIG Executive Deferred Compensation Plan*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-101640).

(9) AIG Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-101640).

(10) AIG Director Stock Plan*

Filed as an exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement
    dated April 5, 2004 (File
     No. 1-8787) 
    and incorporated herein by reference.

(11) Purchase Agreement between AIA and Mr. E.S.W. Tse*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to AIG s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(12) Retention and Employment Agreement between AIG and Jay
    S. Wintrob*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to AIG s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

330    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    331 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

332    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    333 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

334    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    335 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

Location 

(88) Release Agreement with Steven J. Bensinger*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(89) Letter from Robert B. Willumstad to Edward M. Liddy*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(90) AIG Credit Facility Trust Agreement, dated as of
    January 16, 2009, among Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    and Jill M. Considine, Chester B. Feldberg and Douglas L. Foshee

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG s Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 23, 2009 (File
     No. 1-8787). 

(91) Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred
    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2009, between AIG
    Credit Facility Trust and AIG

Filed herewith.

(92) Letter Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2009,
    between United States Department of the Treasury and AIG.

Filed herewith.

(93) Support Agreement, dated as of July 10, 2008,
    between AIG and American General Finance Corporation

Filed herewith.

(94) Aircraft Facility Agreement, dated as of January 19, 1999,
    among International Lease Finance Corporation, Halifax PLC and
    the other banks listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 1998 (File
     No. 000-11350). 

(95) Aircraft Facility Agreement, dated as of May 18, 2004,
    among Whitney Leasing Limited, as borrower, International Lease
    Finance Corporation, as guarantor and the Bank of Scotland and
    the other banks listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 (File
     No. 001-31616). 

(96) $2,000,000,000 Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated
    as of October 15, 2004, among International Lease Finance
    Corporation, CitiCorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent, and
    the other financial institutions listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 (File
     No. 001-31616). 

(97) Amendment No. 1 to the $2,000,000,000 Five-Year Revolving
    Credit Agreement dated as of October 15, 2004, among
    International Lease Finance Corporation, CitiCorp USA, Inc., as
    Administrative Agent, and the other financial institutions
    listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on October 18, 2006 (File
     No. 001-31616). 

(98) $2,000,000,000 Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated
    as of October 14, 2005, among International Lease Finance
    Corporation, CitiCorp USA, Inc. as Administrative Agent, and the
    other financial institutions listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on October 18, 2005 (File
     No. 001-31616). 

(99) Amendment No. 1 to the $2,000,000,000 Five-Year Revolving
    Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005, among
    International Lease Finance Corporation, CitiCorp USA, Inc., as
    Administrative Agent, and the other financial institutions
    listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on October 18, 2006 (File
     No. 001-31616). 

336    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

Location 

(100) $2,500,000,000 Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated
    as of October 13, 2006, among International Lease Finance
    Corporation, CitiCorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent, and
    the other financial institutions listed therein

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to International
    Lease Finance Corporation s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on October 18, 2006 (File
     No. 001-31616). 

11

Statement re computation of per share earnings

Included in Note 15 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

12

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

Filed herewith.

13

Annual report to security holders

Not required to be filed.

21

Subsidiaries of Registrant

Filed herewith.

23

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Filed herewith.

24

Power of attorney

Included on the signature page hereof.

31

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
    Certifications

Filed herewith.

32

Section 1350 Certifications

Filed herewith.

99

Additional exhibits

None.

*   

This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan
    or arrangement.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    337 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Summary
    of Investments   Other than Investments in Related
    Parties  

Schedule I 

*  
     
     Original cost of equity securities and fixed maturities are
    reduced by
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges, and, as to fixed maturities, reduced by
    repayments and adjusted for amortization of premiums or accrual
    of discounts. 

338    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant  

Balance Sheet   Parent Company Only 

Schedule II 

*  
     
     Eliminated in consolidation 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  
    Parent Company Only.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    339 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
    (Continued) 

Statement of Income (Loss)   Parent Company Only

*  
     
     Eliminated in consolidation. 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  
    Parent Company Only.

340    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
    (Continued) 

Statement
    of Cash Flows   Parent Company Only  

Schedule II 

Supplementary disclosure of cash flow information: 

Years Ended December 31, 

2008 

2007 

(In millions) 

Intercompany non-cash financing/investing activities: 

Settlement of repurchase agreement with loan receivable

$ 

3,160 

$

Capital contributions in the form of bonds

3,160 

Loans receivable forgiven through capital contributions

11,350 

Other non-cash capital contributions to subsidiaries

513 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  
    Parent Company Only.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    341 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
    (Continued) 

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  

American International Group, Inc. s (the Registrant)
    investments in consolidated subsidiaries are stated at cost plus
    equity in undistributed income of consolidated subsidiaries. The
    accompanying condensed financial statements of the Registrant
    should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
    statements and notes thereto of American International Group,
    Inc. and subsidiaries included in the Registrant s 2008
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Agency operations previously conducted in New York through the
    North American Division of AIU are included in the 2007 and 2006
    financial statements of the Parent Company.

The Registrant includes in its statement of income (loss)
    dividends from its subsidiaries and equity in undistributed
    income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries, which represents the
    net income (loss) of each of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform
    to the current period presentation.

Long term obligations for the Parent Company include the Credit
    Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and other
    loans payable. The details of all obligations and their
    five-year maturity schedule are incorporated by reference from
    Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Registrant files a consolidated federal income tax return
    with certain subsidiaries and acts as an agent for the
    consolidated tax group when making payments to the Internal
    Revenue Service. The Registrant and its subsidiaries have
    adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of allocating
    consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the
    subsidiaries under the written agreement are included in Due to
    Affiliates in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.

Income taxes in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets are
    comprised of the Registrant s current and deferred tax
    assets, the consolidated group s current income tax
    receivable, deferred taxes attributable to the potential sale of
    foreign and domestic businesses and a valuation allowance to
    reduce the consolidated deferred tax asset to an amount more
    likely than not to be realized. See Note 20 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

During the second quarter of 2008, the Registrant made certain
    revisions to the American International Group, Inc. Condensed
    Statement of Cash Flows, primarily relating to the effect of
    reclassifying certain intercompany and securities lending
    balances. Accordingly, the Registrant revised the previous
    periods presented to conform to the revised presentation. There
    was no effect on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows or
    ending cash balances.

The revisions and their effect on the American International
    Group, Inc. Condensed Statement of Cash Flows for the years
    ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  
    Parent Company Only.

342    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Supplementary
    Insurance Information  

Schedule III 

At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and for the years
    then ended 

(a)   

Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense
    with respect to the General Insurance operations are net of
    discounts of $2.57 billion, $2.43 billion and
    $2.26 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.  

(b)   

Reflected in insurance balances payable on the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheet.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    343 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Reinsurance  

Schedule IV 

At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and for the years
    then ended 

344    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Valuation
    and Qualifying Accounts  

Schedule V 

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 

(a)   

Includes recoveries of amounts previously charged off and
    reclassifications to/from other accounts.  

(b)   

Amounts for Overhaul reserve represent reimbursements to
    lessees for overhauls performed and amounts transferred to
    buyers for aircraft sold and is included in Other liabilities in
    the consolidated balance sheet.  

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    345 

<EX-3.I.F>
 2
 y74794exv3wiwf.htm
 EX-3.I.F: FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS

EX-3.I.F 

Exhibit 3.i.f 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

SERIES C PERPETUAL, CONVERTIBLE, PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 

OF 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Company  ), hereby certifies that the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the   Board of
Directors  ) as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware
at a meeting duly held on March 1, 2009:

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors in
accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended from time
to time, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of Serial Preferred Stock, par value $5.00
per share, of the Company, and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the
voting and other powers, and the relative rights and preferences, and the qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows:

Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock:

Capitalized terms used and not defined have the respective meanings set forth in Section 19.

Section 1.  Designation and Number of Shares . There is hereby created out of the authorized
and unissued shares of serial preferred stock of the Company a series of preferred stock designated
as the  Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock  (the   Series C
Preferred Stock  ). The authorized number of shares of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be
100,000. Such number of shares may be decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors, subject
to the terms and conditions hereof;  provided , that no decrease shall reduce the number of
shares of Series C Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding.

Section 2.  Dividends and Distributions .

(A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock
ranking prior and superior to the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the
holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive per share of
Series C Preferred Stock when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly

authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the
purpose, on the same date as any dividends are paid on the Common Stock (payable in cash or
in kind as applicable, other than in shares of Common Stock or other securities the Company
may issue) (each such date being referred to herein as a   Dividend Payment Date  ),
commencing on the first Dividend Payment Date on or after March 4, 2009, dividends or
distributions in an amount (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the Conversion Ratio on
the record date for such dividend or distribution times the amount of the cash dividend per
share of Common Stock to be paid on such Dividend Payment Date (and the Conversion Ratio on
the record date for such dividend or distribution times the amount (payable in kind) of the
non-cash dividend or other distribution, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common
Stock or in other securities the Company may issue, to be paid per share of Common Stock on
such Dividend Payment Date), whether or not shares of Series C Preferred Stock are
convertible as of the applicable record date;  provided   however  that if the
aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid on any Dividend Payment Date with
respect to all shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding would exceed the
Threshold Percentage of the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid with
respect to all shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding together with all shares
of Common Stock then outstanding, then the amount of dividends and distributions paid per
share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be reduced  pro rata  so that the aggregate amount of
dividends and distributions paid on any Dividend Payment Date with respect to all shares of
Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding will not exceed the Threshold Percentage of the
aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid with respect to all shares of Series C
Preferred Stock then outstanding together with all shares of Common Stock then outstanding.
For the avoidance of doubt, the intent of the foregoing is that the dividends or other
distributions paid to holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock (other than a dividend
payable in shares of Common Stock or other securities the Company may issue) shall equal the
dividends and other distributions that would have been payable with respect to the shares of
Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series C Preferred Stock (whether or
not such shares were convertible as of the applicable record date at the Conversion Ratio),
subject to the foregoing proviso.

The holders of the Series C Preferred Stock agree that, upon the effectiveness of the
Ranking Amendment, the Series C Preferred Stock shall rank junior to the Series D Preferred
Stock as to the payment of dividends and distributions.

(B) The Company shall not declare or pay a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock
(other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or other securities the Company may
issue) unless it simultaneously declares and pays such dividend or distribution on the
Series C Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section.

(C) The Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may
fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock
entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record
date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof and
shall be the same as the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Common
Stock entitled to receive payment of a concurrent dividend or distribution.

2 

(D) Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary herein, if required by law, the Company
(or its agents) shall withhold and backup withhold tax on any payment or distribution on the
Series C Preferred Stock, on the Conversion Securities (or in lieu thereof) and on any
adjustment to the Conversion Ratio. Such withholding shall be treated for all purposes
hereunder as if paid to the holder of such Series C Preferred Stock or Conversion
Securities. The Company (or its agents) may (but is not required to) set-off any tax that
the Company is required to withhold as a result of a change in the Conversion Ratio against
payments of dividends payable on the Series C Preferred Stock and against Conversion
Securities deliverable upon the conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock (valued at the
Current Market Price Per Share upon conversion).

Section 3.  Voting Rights . The holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have the
following voting rights : 

(A) Each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to a number of
votes equal to the Conversion Ratio as of the applicable record date on all matters
submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company having general voting rights, whether
or not shares of Series C Preferred Stock are convertible as of such record date;
 provided   however  that if the aggregate voting power of the Series C
Preferred Stock on any such matter would exceed the Threshold Percentage of the aggregate
voting power of the stockholders of the Company entitled to vote on such matter as of such
record date, then the voting power per share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be reduced
 pro rata  so that the aggregate voting power of the Series C Preferred Stock on such matter
will not exceed the Threshold Percentage of the aggregate voting power of the stockholders
of the Company entitled to vote on such matter as of such record date. For the avoidance of
doubt, the intent of the foregoing is that the voting power of the holders of shares of
Series C Preferred Stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the
Company having general voting rights shall equal the voting power of the shares of Common
Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series C Preferred Stock (whether or not
such shares were convertible as of the applicable record date at the Conversion Ratio),
subject to the foregoing proviso.

(B) Except as otherwise provided herein, or in any other Certificate of Designations
creating a series of Preferred Stock or as required by law, the holders of shares of Series
C Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of
the Company having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters
submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Company.

Section 4.  Certain Restrictions .

(A) No dividend shall be paid upon, or declared or set apart for, any share of Series C
Preferred Stock or any other share of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Series C
Preferred Stock as to dividends unless at the same time a like proportionate dividend,
ratably in proportion to the respective total amounts to which the
holders of all such shares are then entitled, shall be paid upon, or declared and set apart for, all shares of
Series C Preferred Stock and Preferred Stock of all series ranking on a parity as to

3 

dividends then issued and outstanding and on which dividends are accrued and payable for all
dividend periods terminating on or prior to the relevant Dividend Payment Date.

(B) In no event, so long as any shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be outstanding,
shall any dividend, whether in cash or property, be paid or declared, nor shall any
distribution be made, on any junior stock, nor shall any shares of any junior stock be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for value by the Company, unless all dividends on
the Series C Preferred Stock and any series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the
Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends for all past dividend periods and for the then
current period shall have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof
set apart, and unless the Company shall not be in default with respect to any of its
obligations with respect to any past period with respect to any sinking fund for any series
of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends.
The foregoing provisions of paragraph (B) of this Section 4 shall not, however, apply to a
dividend payable on any junior stock, or to the acquisition of shares of any junior stock in
exchange for, or through application of the proceeds of the sale of, shares of any other
junior stock.

(C) The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to purchase or otherwise
acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Company unless the Company could, under
paragraph (B) of this Section 4 and under the applicable provisions of the Charter, purchase
or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

Section 5.  Reacquired Shares . Shares of the Series C Preferred Stock that are repurchased
or otherwise acquired by the Company shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred
Stock ( provided  that any such cancelled shares of the Series C Preferred Stock may be reissued only
as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than the Series C Preferred Stock).

Section 6.  Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up . In the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, then, before any
distribution or payment shall be made to the holders of any junior stock, the holders of the Series
C Preferred Stock and any shares of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity therewith as to liquidation
shall be entitled to be paid in full the respective amounts of the liquidation preferences thereof,
which in the case of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be $5.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all previously declared and unpaid dividends;  provided  that the holders of Series C
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive per share of Series C Preferred Stock no less than an
aggregate amount equal to the Conversion Ratio at such time multiplied by the amount to be
distributed per share of Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, the intent of the foregoing
proviso is to result in the distributions made to holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock at
least equaling the payments that would have been payable with respect to the shares of Common Stock
issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series C Preferred Stock (whether or not such shares
were then convertible at the Conversion Ratio). If such payment shall have been made in full to
holders of the Series C Preferred Stock and any series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
therewith as to liquidation, the remaining assets and funds of the Company shall be distributed
among the holders of the junior stock, according to their respective rights and preferences and in
each case according to their respective shares. If, upon

4 

any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, the amounts so payable
are not paid in full to the holders of all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any
series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity therewith as to liquidation, the holders of Series C
Preferred Stock and any series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity therewith as to liquidation
shall share ratably in any distribution of assets in proportion to the full amounts to which they
would otherwise be respectively entitled. Neither the consolidation or merger of the Company, nor
the sale, lease or conveyance of all or a part of its assets, shall be deemed a liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company within the meaning of the foregoing
provisions of this Section 6.

The holders of the Series C Preferred Stock agree that, upon the effectiveness of the Ranking
Amendment, the Series C Preferred Stock shall rank junior to the Series D Preferred Stock as to the
payment of amounts upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.

Section 7.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  In case the Company shall enter into any
consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are
exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in
any such case each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall at the same time become convertible into
an amount per share (payable in cash or kind, as applicable), equal to the Conversion Ratio at the
effective time multiplied by the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other
property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock
is changed or exchanged.

Section 8.  No Redemption; Perpetual . The shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be
redeemable, either at the option of the Company or the holders thereof, and are not subject to a
sinking fund. The Series C Preferred Stock has no set redemption or repayment date and does not
have a maturity.

Section 9.  Rank . Subject to the second sentence of this Section 9, the Series C Preferred
Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, to the
extent set forth in this Certificate of Designations on a parity with all series of any other class
of the Company s Serial Preferred Stock. The holders of the Series C Preferred Stock agree that,
upon the effectiveness of the Ranking Amendment, the Series C Preferred Stock shall rank junior to
the Series D Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets.

Section 10.  Amendment . This Certificate of Designations shall not be amended, modified or
supplemented in any manner that is adverse to the holders of Series C Preferred Stock without the
affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred
Stock, voting together as a single class and as a separate class from all other capital stock of
the Company. Neither the Charter nor the bylaws of the Company shall be amended, modified or
supplemented in any manner, including through a merger, consolidation or other transaction or
otherwise, that would materially alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of
the Series C Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely or in any manner that would eliminate,
impair, interfere with, limit, condition or otherwise modify the right of stockholders to act by
written consent in lieu of a meeting of stockholders, in each case without the affirmative vote of
the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding shares of Series

5 

C Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class and as a separate class from all other capital
stock of the Company. Without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the
outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class and as a separate
class from all other capital stock of the Company, neither the Charter nor the bylaws of the
Company shall be amended, modified or supplemented in any manner that would eliminate, impair,
interfere with, limit, condition or otherwise modify the provisions, or the rights of stockholders,
relating to the call (including by stockholders) of special meetings of stockholders.

Section 11.  Conversion .

(A) (i) Upon the terms and in the manner set forth herein, each share of Series C Preferred
Stock shall be convertible, at the option of the holder thereof, at any time or from time to
time, in whole or in part, commencing on the effective date of the Charter Amendment upon
surrender to the transfer agent which may be maintained for such purpose (the
  Conversion Agent  ) of the certificate(s) for each share to be converted or, if the
shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not in certificated form, upon delivery to the
Conversion Agent of a written Notice of Conversion (the date on which the Conversion Agent
shall have received a written Notice of Conversion and, if applicable, a surrendered
certificate, the   Conversion Date  ), into (x) a number of shares of Common Stock
equal to the Conversion Ratio (it being agreed that if there is more than one class or
series of Common Stock the holder shall be entitled to elect in its sole discretion which
class or series, or combination thereof, shall be issued upon conversion hereof), plus (y)
to the extent the Conversion Date falls on or after the close of business on a record date
(or record dates) for the related payment of dividends and before the relevant payment
date(s), a right to receive on the related payment date an amount in cash equal to the
amount of cash that would have been paid to the holder if the shares of Common Stock
received upon conversion had been outstanding on the record date (unless such dividends or
distributions are payable in kind in which case they shall be so payable), it being
understood and agreed that the Series C Preferred Stock so converted shall not be entitled
to any dividends or distributions with respect to such related payment date. If the Company
shall fail to deliver any of the amounts or property described in clause (y), such failure
shall not affect the validity of the issuance of any securities pursuant to clause (x) and
the Company shall continue to be required to deliver the amounts or property contemplated by
clause (y). Upon conversion by the holder of Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 11 and upon receipt of such payments, such holder shall not be entitled to any
future dividends, distributions or other payments otherwise payable on shares of Series C
Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 2 hereof with respect to shares of Series C Preferred
Stock so converted (for the avoidance of doubt, nothing herein shall affect the right of
such holder to receive dividends on any shares of Common Stock or other securities
deliverable upon conversion of any shares of Series C Preferred Stock, the record date for
which occurs after the Conversion Date).

(ii) In order to convert shares of Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 11, the
holder thereof shall deliver a properly completed and duly executed Notice of Conversion (as
set forth in the form of Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock
certificate attached hereto). Each holder of Series C Preferred Stock shall (A) deliver a
Notice of Conversion to the Conversion Agent specifying the name or

6 

names in which such holder wishes to register such shares of Common Stock issuable upon
such conversion on the stock ledger of the Company, (B) if such shares of Series C Preferred
Stock are evidenced by a certificate, surrender the certificate for such shares of Series C
Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent, accompanied, if so required by the Conversion
Agent, by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to
the Conversion Agent duly executed by the holder or its attorney duly authorized in writing,
or if such shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not evidenced by a certificate, deliver to
the Conversion Agent a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form reasonably
satisfactory to the Conversion Agent duly executed by the holder or its attorney duly
authorized in writing, and (C) subject to Section 11(I) hereof, pay any transfer or similar
tax required hereby;  provided  that such transfer or similar tax may, at the option
of such holder and in lieu of any payment in cash, be paid through a reduction of the number
of shares of Common Stock received upon such conversion, valued at the Current Market Price
Per Share (as defined herein).

(B) Whenever a holder converts the Series C Preferred Stock in whole or in part, it may
assign its right to receive the Common Stock or Conversion Securities (as defined below)
issuable upon such conversion to any other Person, subject to the provisions of Section
11(I) and Section 13 hereof.

(C) The Company covenants and agrees that all shares of Common Stock or other securities
that may be issued upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock (the   Conversion
Securities  ) will, upon issuance, be validly authorized, issued and outstanding, fully
paid and nonassessable, free of preemptive rights and free from all taxes, liens and charges
with respect to the issuance thereof (other than liens or charges created by the holder of
the Series C Preferred Stock, income and franchise taxes incurred in connection with the
conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock or taxes in connection with any transfer
occurring prior to or contemporaneously therewith).

(D) If the shares of Common Stock or other Conversion Securities are then listed or quoted
on a national securities exchange or a regional securities exchange, all such securities
issuable upon conversion shall, upon issuance, also be so listed or quoted.

(E) The Company will at all times after the effective date of the Charter Amendment while
the Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding (the   Conversion Period  ), have
authorized and reserved solely for purposes of the conversion hereof, free from preemptive
rights, a sufficient number of shares of its Common Stock or other Conversion Securities to
provide for the conversion in full of the Series C Preferred Stock. If at any time during
the Conversion Period the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or other
Conversion Securities shall not be sufficient to permit conversion in full of the Series C
Preferred Stock, the Company will as promptly as practicable take such corporate action as
shall be necessary to increase its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or other
Conversion Securities to such number of shares as shall be sufficient for such purposes.

(F) If at any time the Conversion Securities shall include any shares or other securities
other than shares of Common Stock, or any other property or assets, the terms of the

7 

Series C Preferred Stock shall be modified or supplemented (and in the absence of express
written documentation thereof, shall be deemed to be so modified or supplemented), and the
Company shall take all actions as may be necessary to preserve, in a manner and on terms as
nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions of the Series C Preferred Stock as they
apply to the Common Stock, the rights of the holder hereof, including any equitable
replacements of the term  Common Stock  with the term
 Conversion Securities  and
adjustments of any formula included herein.

(G) The Company will not, by amendment of its Charter, bylaws or other governing documents
or through any reorganization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution, issue
or sale of securities or any other action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or
performance of any of the terms to be observed or performed hereunder by the Company, but
will at all times in good faith assist in the carrying out of all the provisions of the
Series C Preferred Stock and in the taking of all such action as may be necessary or
appropriate in order to protect the conversion rights of the holder against impairment or
dilution consistent with the intent and principles expressed herein. If any event or
occurrence shall occur (including without limitation, stock dividends and stock splits) as
to which the failure to make any adjustment to the Number of Outstanding Shares, the
Conversion Ratio and/or the number of shares or other assets or property issuable upon
conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock would adversely affect the conversion rights or
value represented by the Series C Preferred Stock, including any issuance of Common Stock or
Participating Securities, then, in each such case, the Board of Directors, acting in good
faith, shall determine the adjustment, if any, on a basis consistent with the essential
intent and principles herein, necessary to preserve, without dilution, the conversion rights
and value represented by the Series C Preferred Stock. Notice of each such determination
shall be given to each holder of the Series C Preferred Stock within 10 days of such
determination in the manner set forth in Section 17. For so long
as the Trust holds any shares of Series C Preferred Stock, the trustees of the Trust may object in writing to the
Board of Directors  determination within 10 Business Days of receipt of written notice
thereof. If the Board of Directors and the trustees of the Trust are unable to agree on the
adjustment during the 10-Business Day period following the delivery of the trustees 
objection, the Appraisal Procedure may be invoked by either party to determine the
adjustment by delivery of a written notification thereof not later than the 30 th 
day after delivery of the trustees  objection.   Appraisal Procedure   means a
procedure whereby two independent appraisers, one chosen by the Board of Directors and one
by the trustees of the Trust, shall mutually agree upon the adjustment. Each party shall
deliver a notice to the other appointing its appraiser within 10 days after the Appraisal
Procedure is invoked. If within 30 days after appointment of the two appraisers they are
unable to agree upon the adjustment, a third independent appraiser shall be chosen within 10
days thereafter by the mutual consent of such first two appraisers. The decision of the
third appraiser so appointed and chosen shall be given within 30 days after the selection of
such third appraiser. If three appraisers shall be appointed and the determination of one
appraiser is disparate from the middle determination by more than twice the amount or
number, as applicable, by which the other determination is disparate from the middle
determination, then the determination of such appraiser shall be excluded, the remaining two
determinations shall be averaged and such average shall be binding and conclusive upon the
Company and the holders of the

8 

Series C Preferred Stock; otherwise, the average of all three determinations shall be
binding upon the Company and the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock. The costs of
conducting any Appraisal Procedure shall be borne by the Company. Without limiting the
foregoing, in the event of any dividend or distribution by the Company of assets or property
(including shares of any other Person) on or with respect to the Common Stock, or any
exchange of the shares of Common Stock into any other assets, property or securities, the
Series C Preferred Stock will be equitably adjusted to permit the holder to receive upon
conversion the assets, property or securities that would have been received if the Series C
Preferred Stock had been converted immediately prior to the earlier of the record date and
the effective date for such dividend, distribution or exchange.

(H) In the event (i) the Company takes a record of the holders of any class of securities
for the purpose of determining the holders thereof who are entitled to receive any dividend
or other distribution, (ii) the Company authorizes the granting to the holders of Common
Stock (or holders of any other class of Conversion Securities) of rights to subscribe to or
purchase any shares of capital stock of any class or securities convertible into any shares
of capital stock or of any other right, (iii) the Company authorizes any reclassification
of, or any recapitalization involving, any class of Common Stock or any consolidation or
merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of the stockholders of the
Company is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Company, (iv) the Company authorizes or consents to or otherwise commences the voluntary
or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company or (v) the Company
authorizes or takes any other action that would trigger an adjustment in the Number of
Outstanding Shares, the Conversion Ratio or the number or amount of shares of Common Stock
or other Conversion Securities issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock, the
Company shall mail to the holder, at least ten (10) days prior to the earlier of the record
date for any such action or stockholder vote and the date of such action, a notice
specifying (a) which action is to be taken and the date on which any such record is to be
taken for the purpose of any such action, (b) the date that any such action is to take place
and (c) the amount and character of any stock, other securities or property, or rights or
options with respect thereto, proposed to be issued, granted or delivered to each holder of
Common Stock (or holders of any other class of Conversion Securities).

(I) The initial issuance of Common Stock upon any conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock
shall be made without charge to the exercising holder for any transfer, stamp or similar tax
or for any other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the issuance of
such stock, and such stock shall be issued in the respective names of, or in such names as
may be directed by, the holder;  provided ,  however , that the Company shall
not be required to pay any tax or such other charges that may be payable in connection with
any transfer involved in the issuance of any such stock, any new shares of Series C
Preferred Stock or other securities in a name other than that of the holder upon conversion
of the Series C Preferred Stock, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver
such stock or other securities unless and until the Person or Persons requesting the
issuance thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid or is not
payable.

9 

(J) If a share of Series C Preferred Stock in certificated form is lost, stolen, mutilated
or destroyed, the Company shall, on reasonable and customary terms as to indemnity or other
customary administrative matters (which shall, in the case of a mutilated share, include the
surrender thereof), issue a new share of Series C Preferred Stock of like number as the
share so lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed. Any such new share shall constitute an
original share, whether or not the allegedly lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed security
shall be at any time enforceable by anyone.

(K) The Company will at no time close its transfer books during normal business hours on any
Business Day against the transfer of any shares of Common Stock issued or issuable upon the
conversion of any Series C Preferred Stock in any manner that interferes with the timely
conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock.

(L)  Conversion Mechanics .

(i) A  conversion  shall be deemed to have been effected at the
close of business on the Conversion Date. Immediately upon conversion, the rights of the
holders of Series C Preferred Stock converted on the Conversion Date shall cease and the
persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock upon the conversion of such shares of
Series C Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as having become the record and
beneficial owners of such shares of Common Stock.

(ii) As promptly as practicable after the Conversion Date (and in no event more than
two (2) Business Days thereafter), the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered at the
office or agency of the Conversion Agent, to, or upon the written order of, the holders of
the surrendered shares of Series C Preferred Stock, a notice pursuant to direct registration
that a number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock have been registered on
the books and records of the Company, with no personal liability attaching to the ownership
thereof, free of all taxes with respect to the issuance thereof to the extent provided in
Section 11(A) and (I), liens, charges and security interests (other than liens or charges
created by the holder of the Series C Preferred Stock, income and franchise taxes incurred
in connection with the conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock or taxes in connection
with any transfer occurring prior to or contemporaneously therewith) and not subject to any
preemptive rights, into which such shares of Series C Preferred Stock have been converted in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 11 and any cash payable in respect of
fractional shares as provided herein. On the relevant payment date following the Conversion
Date, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered at the office or agency of the
Conversion Agent, to, or upon the written order of, the holders of the surrendered shares of
Series C Preferred Stock, the amount of cash or other property, if any, due in respect of
dividends or other distributions on such surrendered shares, as provided in Section
11(A)(i)(y), payable, in the case of cash dividends or distributions (i) if the holder is
the Trust, in immediately available funds, at such account designated by the holder or (ii)
otherwise by check delivered to the holder at its address as set forth on the books and
records of the Company.

(iii) Upon the surrender of a certificate representing shares of Series C Preferred
Stock that is converted in part, the Company shall deliver or cause to be

10 

delivered to the holder a notice that shares of Series C Preferred Stock equal in
number to the unconverted shares of Series C Preferred Stock represented by the certificate
so surrendered have been registered on the books and records of the Company.

(M)  No Fractional Shares . No fractional shares or scrip representing fractional
shares of Common Stock or other Conversion Securities shall be issued upon the conversion of
any shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Instead of any fractional interest in a share of
Common Stock or other Conversion Security that would otherwise be deliverable upon the
conversion of a share of Series C Preferred Stock, the Company shall pay to the holder of
such share of Series C Preferred Stock an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent)
equal to the product of (i) such fraction and (ii) the Current Market Price Per Share on the
Trading Day (as defined below) next preceding the day of conversion. For the purposes of
any computation under this Section 11, the   Current Market Price Per Share   of the
Common Stock or any other security on any Trading Day shall be deemed to be the volume
weighted average sales price of the Common Stock or such other security on the New York
Stock Exchange on such Trading Day (or, if the Common Stock or such other security is not
listed on the New York Stock Exchange, such other national or regional exchange or market in
the United States on which the Common Stock or such other security is then listed or quoted)
or, if the Common Stock or such other security is not listed or quoted on a national or
regional exchange or market, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the
high bid and low asked prices on such other nationally recognized quotation system then in
use in the United States on such Trading Day, or, if the Common Stock or such other security
is not quoted on any such quotation system, the average of the closing bid and asked prices
on such Trading Day as furnished by a professional market maker selected by the Board of
Directors in good faith making a market in the Common Stock or such other security. Any
determination of Current Market Price Per Share shall be made without reference to extended
or after hours trading.

Section 12.  Form .

(A) Series C Preferred Stock shall be initially issued in the form of one or more
certificates in definitive, fully registered form with, until such time as otherwise
determined by the Company and the Registrar, the restricted shares legend (the
  Restricted Shares Legend  ), as set forth on the form of Series C Perpetual,
Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock certificate attached hereto as Exhibit A (each, a
  Preferred Share Certificate  ), which is hereby incorporated in and expressly made a
part of this Certificate of Designations. The Preferred Share Certificate may have
notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules, agreements to
which the Company is subject, if any, or usage ( provided  that any such notation,
legend or endorsement is in a form acceptable to the Company).

(B) (i) An Officer shall sign the Preferred Share Certificate for the Company, in accordance
with the Company s bylaws and applicable law, by manual or facsimile signature.

11 

(ii) If an Officer whose signature is on a Preferred Share Certificate no longer holds
that office at the time the Transfer Agent authenticates such Preferred Share Certificate,
such Preferred Share Certificate shall be valid nevertheless.

(iii) A Preferred Share Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory until an
authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent manually countersigns the Preferred Share
Certificate. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that such Preferred Share
Certificate has been authenticated under this Certificate of Designations. Each Preferred
Share Certificate shall be dated the date of its authentication.

(C) Other than upon original issuance, all transfers, conversions and exchanges of the
Series C Preferred Stock shall be made by direct registration on the books and records of
the Company.

Section 13.  Registration; Transfer .

(A) The Series C Preferred Stock and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the shares
of Series C Preferred Stock have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be
resold, pledged or otherwise transferred other than (i) pursuant to an exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder, (ii) in
accordance with another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act,
(iii) to the Company or a subsidiary thereof, or (iv) pursuant to an effective registration
statement under the Securities Act, in each case, in accordance with any applicable
securities laws of any state of the United States.

(B) Except in connection with a transfer pursuant to an effective registration statement
relating to the Series C Preferred Stock and shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion
of the Series C Preferred Stock, if shares of Series C Preferred Stock are issued upon the
transfer, exchange or replacement of Series C Preferred Stock bearing the Restricted Shares
Legend, or if a request is made to remove such Restricted Shares Legend on shares of Series
C Preferred Stock, the Series C Preferred Stock so issued shall be subject to the transfer
restrictions set forth in the Restricted Shares Legend and such restrictions shall continue
to apply unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory
evidence, which may include an opinion of counsel licensed to practice law in the State of
New York, as may be reasonably required by the Company or the Registrar, that such
restrictions on transfer are not required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the
provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such shares of Series C Preferred
Stock are not  restricted securities  within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities
Act. Upon provision of such satisfactory evidence, the Registrar, at the direction of the
Company, shall notify the holder that such shares of Series C Preferred Stock are no longer
subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Restricted Shares Legend.

(C) The Company will refuse to register any transfer of Series C Preferred Stock or any
Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock that is not
made in accordance with the provisions of the Restricted Shares Legend and pursuant to an
effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 or

12 

another available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act;
 provided  that the provisions of this paragraph (C) shall not be applicable to any
Series C Preferred Stock that is not subject to the restrictions set forth in the Restricted
Shares Legend or to any Common Stock that is not subject to the Common Stock Legend.

(D) Each notice of issuance of Common Stock issued upon a conversion of the Series C
Preferred Stock prior to the transfer of such Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to Rule 144
or an effective registration statement relating to such Series C Preferred Stock shall be
subject to the common stock legend (the   Common Stock Legend  ) set forth in Exhibit
C hereto and be transferable only in accordance with the Form of Certificate of Transfer for
Common Stock set out in Exhibit D. If shares of Common Stock subject to the Common Stock
Legend are transferred by such holder, then the holder must deliver to the Registrar a
certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit D as to compliance with the restrictions on
transfer applicable to such Common Stock and the Registrar shall not be required to register
any transfer of such Common Stock not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate.
Upon the presentation of satisfactory evidence that the transfer restrictions set forth in
Common Stock Legend are no longer required as described above in paragraph (B) of this
Section with respect to the Series C Preferred Stock, the Registrar, at the direction of the
Company, shall notify the holder that such shares of Common Stock are no longer subject to
the transfer restrictions set forth in the Common Stock Legend.

(E) The Company will refuse to register any transfer of the Series C Preferred Stock or the
Conversion Securities unless the transferor first pays all transfer taxes or similar taxes
required to be paid on such transfer.

Section 14.  Transfer Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar . The duly appointed Transfer
Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar for the Series C Preferred Stock shall be Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. The Company may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the
agreement between the Company and the Transfer Agent;  provided  that the Company shall
appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of
such removal.

Section 15.  Other Rights . The shares of the Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth
herein or in the Charter, the bylaws of the Company or as provided by applicable law.

Section 16.  Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company
and the Transfer Agent for Series C Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any
share of the Series C Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and
neither the Company nor such Transfer Agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 17.  Notices . All notices or communications in respect of the Series C Preferred
Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class
mail, postage prepaid, or given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of
Designations, in the Charter, the bylaws of the Company or by applicable law. Notwithstanding

13 

the foregoing, if shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The
Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of the
Series C Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.

Section 18.  No Preemptive Rights . No holder of any share of Series C Preferred Stock shall
be entitled as of right to subscribe for, purchase or receive any shares of stock of any class or
any other securities which the Company may issue, whether now or hereafter authorized, and whether
such stock or securities be issued for money or for a consideration other than money or by way of a
dividend and all such shares of stock or other securities may be issued or disposed of by the Board
of Directors to such persons, firms, corporations and associates and on such terms as it, in its
absolute discretion, may deem advisable, without offering to stockholders then of record of any
share of Series C Preferred Stock upon the same terms or upon any terms.

Section 19.  Definitions . (A) The following terms shall have the respective meanings set
forth below:

2008 Warrants   shall mean the warrant issued by the Company to the United States
Department of the Treasury concurrently with the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock.

Business Day   shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banks
in New York City are authorized or required by law to close.

Charter   means the Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended from
time to time.

Charter Amendment   shall mean an amendment to the Charter to reduce the par value of
the Common Stock to $0.000001 per share and increase the number of authorized shares of Common
Stock to 19 billion.

Common Stock   shall mean the common stock, $2.50 par value, of the Company, the
common stock of the Company with any other par value or no par value, and all other stock of any
class or classes (however designated) of the Company from time to time outstanding, the holders of
which have the right, without limitation as to amount, either to all or to a share of the balance
of current dividends or liquidating distributions after the payment of dividends and distributions
on any shares entitled to preference. For purposes of clarification, the Common Stock shall not
include the Series C Preferred Stock.

Conversion Ratio   as of any date shall mean the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the
Number of Underlying Shares as of such date by (y) 100,000.

Credit Agreement   means the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008, between
the Company and Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as amended from time to time.

Equity Units   means the Equity Units issued by the Company pursuant to a Purchase
Contract Agreement dated May 16, 2008 between the Company and The Bank of New York.

14 

Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to
time.

Number of Outstanding Shares   means, as of any date, the number of shares of Common
Stock outstanding as of the date hereof  plus  the number of shares of Common Stock issued on or
prior to such date in settlement of the Equity Units.

Number of Underlying Shares   means, as of any date, a number of shares of Common
Stock equal to the excess of (a) the product of 3.9751244 times the Number of Outstanding Shares as
of such date over (b) the sum of (i) 53,798,766 (the number of shares of Common Stock underlying
the 2008 Warrants as of the date hereof), (ii) the initial number of shares of Common Stock
underlying any warrants or other securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing the
right to receive shares of Common Stock (other than the Series C Preferred Stock and the 2008 Warrants)
that are beneficially owned by the Treasury (or any vehicle on its behalf) and (iii) so long as any
shares of Series C Preferred Stock are beneficially owned by the Treasury (or any vehicle on its
behalf), any shares of Common Stock directly owned by the Treasury (or any vehicle on its behalf )
as of such date other than (A) the shares of Common Stock referred to in (i) and (ii) above and (B) any
shares of Common Stock received upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock.

Officer   means the Chairman, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of
the Company.

Participating Securities   shall mean (i) any equity security (other than Common
Stock) that entitles the holders thereof to participate in liquidations or other distributions with
the holders of Common Stock or otherwise participate in the capital of the Company other than
through a fixed or floating rate of return on capital loaned or invested, and (ii) any stock
appreciation rights, phantom stock rights, or any other profit or other economic participation
rights with respect to any of the Company s capital stock or other equity ownership interest, or
any rights or options to acquire any such rights.

Person   shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, unincorporated
organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity
whatsoever.

Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Company,
including the Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock.

Ranking Amendment   means an amendment to the Charter (A) to permit the Board of Directors to issue classes of
Preferred Stock that are not of equal rank, such that the Board of Directors or a duly authorized
committee thereof may, prior to issuance, in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue
of shares of each particular series, provide whether the shares of such series rank senior or
junior to any other class of Preferred Stock as to the right to receive dividends and the right to
receive payments out of the assets of the Company upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company and (B) to cause the Series D Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock subsequently issued to the United States Department of the Treasury
to rank senior to the Series C Preferred Stock and any other subsequently issued series of
Preferred Stock that is not issued to the United States Department of the Treasury, so that as a
result of these amendments the Series C Preferred Stock and any subsequently issued series of
Preferred Stock that ranks  pari passu  with or junior to the Series C Preferred Stock would not be
entitled to vote on the subsequent creation or issuance of any such senior Serial Preferred Stock.

Securities Act   means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

Series D Preferred Stock   means the Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock of the Company.

15 

Threshold Percentage   means a quotient obtained by dividing (x) the Number of
Underlying Shares by (y) the sum of the Number of Underlying Shares and the Number of Outstanding
Shares and expressed as a percentage.

Trading Day   shall mean any day during which the Common Stock or other Conversion
Security trades regular way on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock or other
Conversion Security is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other national
or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or other Conversion Security is then
listed or, if the Common Stock or other Conversion Security is not listed on a national or regional
securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock or other Conversion
Security is then traded.

Treasury   means either the United States Department of the Treasury or the United
States Treasury.

Trust   means the AIG Credit Facility Trust, a trust established for the benefit of
the United States Treasury, or any successor thereto.

(B) The terms  junior stock  and  sinking fund  shall have the respective meanings set forth
in subdivision (7) of Article Four of the Charter.

16 

'

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed on
its behalf by its         and attested by its Secretary this    th day of March,
2009.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ATTEST:

Name: 
Title: Secretary

Signature Page to Certificate of Designations of Series C Perpetual, Convertible, 
Participating Preferred Stock of American International Group, Inc. 

2 

EXHIBIT A

FORM OF SERIES C PERPETUAL, CONVERTIBLE, PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK

Number:

Shares 

CUSIP NO.:

Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock 
(par value $5.00 per share) 
(liquidation preference $5.00 per share) 
OF 
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.

FACE OF SECURITY

TRANSFERS OF THIS CERTIFICATE OR PORTIONS THEREOF SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS REFERRED TO BELOW.

IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT SUCH
CERTIFICATES AND OTHER INFORMATION AS SUCH REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO
CONFIRM THAT TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.

THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT
BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE  SECURITIES ACT ), OR ANY STATE
SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY OR THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF
THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED,
TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR
UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that
AIG Credit Facility Trust or its registered assigns (the  Holder ) is the registered owner of a
number of fully paid and non-assessable shares of preferred stock of the Company designated the
Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share and
liquidation preference $5.00 per share (the  Series C Preferred Stock ), specified above. The
shares of Series C Preferred Stock are transferable on the books and records of the Registrar, in
person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in
proper form for transfer. The designation, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other
terms and provisions of the Series C Preferred Stock represented hereby are specified in and shall
in all respects be subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Designations of the Company
dated March 4, 2009, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms
(the  Certificate of Designations ). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the
respective meanings given them in the Certificate of Designations. The Company will provide a copy
of the Certificate of Designations to a Holder without charge upon written request to the Company
at its principal place of business.

Reference is hereby made to select provisions of the Series C Preferred Stock set forth on the
reverse hereof, and to the Certificate of Designations, which select provisions and the Certificate
of Designations shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Certificate of Designations and is
entitled to the benefits thereunder.

Unless the Transfer Agent s Certificate of Authentication hereon has been properly executed, the
shares of Series C Preferred Stock evidenced hereby shall not be entitled to any benefit under the
Certificate of Designations or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, American International Group, Inc. has executed this certificate as of the date
set forth below.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:    Dated: ________________  

TRANSFER AGENT S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This is one of the certificates representing shares of Series C Perpetual, Convertible,
Participating Preferred Stock referred to in the within mentioned Certificate of Designations.

WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., 
as Transfer Agent 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   
     Authorized Signatory    

Dated: ________________  

REVERSE OF SECURITY

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.

Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock

Dividends on each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be payable as provided in the Certificate
of Designations.

The shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have the voting rights set forth in the Certificate of
Designations.

The shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable or subject to a sinking fund.

The shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have no maturity.

The shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be convertible into the Company s Common Stock in the
manner and according to the terms set forth in the Certificate of Designations.

The transfer or exchange of any shares represented by this certificate and the issuance and
delivery of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion of all or part of the shares represented by
this certificate shall be effected on the books and records of the Company and no certificates
representing such shares shall be delivered.

As required under Delaware law, the Company shall furnish to any Holder upon request and without
charge, a full summary statement of the designations, voting rights preferences, limitations and
special rights of the shares of each class or series authorized to be issued by the Company so far
as they have been fixed and determined.

ASSIGNMENT

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto:

(Insert assignee s social security or other identifying number)

(Insert address and zip code of assignee)

shares of capital stock represented by the within Certificate and hereby irrevocably constitutes
and appoints:

agent to transfer the said stock on the books of the Transfer Agent and Registrar with full power 
of substitution in the premises.

Date:

Signature:

(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Series C Preferred Stock Certificate)

Signature Guarantee:

1  

1  
       
     Signature must be guaranteed by an  eligible guarantor
institution  (i.e., a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit
union) meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include
membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program
( STAMP ) or such other  signature guarantee program  as may be determined by
the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. 

NOTICE OF CONVERSION

(To be Executed by the Registered Holder in order to Convert the Series C Preferred Stock)

The
undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to convert (the  Conversion )     shares of Series C
Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock (the  Series C Preferred Stock ), represented
by stock certificate No(s).     (the  Series C Preferred Stock Certificates ) into shares of common
stock (the  Common Stock ), of American International Group, Inc. (the  Company ) according to the
conditions of the Certificate of Designations dated March 4, 2009 establishing the terms of the
Series C Preferred Stock, as such may be amended from time to time (the  Certificate of
Designations ), as of the date written below. If shares are to be issued in the name of a person
other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay all transfer taxes payable with respect
thereto and is delivering herewith such certificates. No fee will be charged to the holder for any
conversion, except for transfer taxes, if any.  A copy of each Series C Preferred Stock Certificate
is attached hereto (or evidence of loss, theft or destruction thereof).  1 

The undersigned represents and warrants that all offers and sales by the undersigned of the shares
of Common Stock issuable to the undersigned upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock shall
be made pursuant to registration of the Common Stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
from time to time (the  Act ), or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Act.

The Company is not required to issue shares of Common Stock until the original Series C Preferred
Stock Certificate(s) (or evidence of mutilation, loss, theft or destruction thereof) to be
converted are received by the Company or its Transfer Agent.  The Company shall record the issuance
of the shares of Common Stock on its books and records by direct registration not later than two
business days following receipt of the original Series C Preferred Stock Certificate(s) to be
converted or, if the Series C Preferred Stock is not represented by a Series C Preferred Stock
Certificate, no later than two business days following receipt of this Notice of Conversion. The
holder acknowledges that no certificates shall be issued in respect of the shares of Common Stock
or any shares evidenced by Series C Preferred Stock Certificate(s) that are not converted.

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in or
pursuant to the Certificate of Designations.

Date of Conversion:

Applicable Conversion Ratio:

Number of shares of Series C
Preferred Stock to be Converted:

Number of shares of
Common Stock to be Issued:

Signature:

Name:

Address: 2 

Fax No.:

1  
       
     Delete bracketed language if this Notice of Conversion is used with respect
to uncertificated shares. 

2  
       
     Address where shares of Common Stock and any other payments or certificates shall be
sent by the Company, if applicable. 

NOTICE OF CONVERSION

(To be Executed by the Registered Holder in order to Convert the Series C Preferred Stock)

The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to convert (the
 Conversion )     shares of Series C
Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock (the  Series C Preferred Stock ), represented
by stock certificate No(s).     (the  Series C Preferred Stock Certificates ) into shares of common
stock (the  Common Stock ), of American International Group, Inc. (the  Company ) according to the
conditions of the Certificate of Designations dated March  3 , 2009 establishing the terms of the
Series C Preferred Stock, as such may be amended from time to time (the  Certificate of
Designations ), as of the date written below. If shares are to be issued in the name of a person
other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay all transfer taxes payable with respect
thereto and is delivering herewith such certificates. No fee will be charged to the holder for any
conversion, except for transfer taxes, if any.  A copy of each Series C Preferred Stock Certificate
is attached hereto (or evidence of loss, theft or destruction thereof).  2  

The undersigned represents and warrants that all offers and sales by the undersigned of the shares
of Common Stock issuable to the undersigned upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock shall
be made pursuant to registration of the Common Stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
from time to time (the  Act ), or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Act. 

The Company is not required to issue shares of Common Stock until the original Series C Preferred
Stock Certificate(s) (or evidence of mutilation, loss, theft or destruction thereof) to be
converted are received by the Company or its Transfer Agent.  The Company shall record the issuance
of the shares of Common Stock on its books and records by direct registration not later than two
business days following receipt of the original Series C Preferred Stock Certificate(s) to be
converted or, if the Series C Preferred Stock is not represented by a Series C Preferred Stock
Certificate, no later than two business days following receipt of this Notice of Conversion. The
holder acknowledges that no certificates shall be issued in respect of the shares of Common Stock
or any shares evidenced by Series C Preferred Stock Certificate(s) that are not converted. 

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in or
pursuant to the Certificate of Designations. 

Date of Conversion:

Applicable Conversion Ratio:

Number of shares of Series C
Preferred Stock to be Converted:

Number of shares of
Common Stock to be Issued:

Signature:

Name:

2  
       
     Delete bracketed language if this Notice of Conversion
is used with respect to uncertificated shares. 

Address: 3 

Fax No.:

3  
       
     Address where shares of Common Stock and any other
payments or certificates shall be sent by the Company, if applicable. 

EXHIBIT B

FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER FOR SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK 
(Transfers pursuant to Section 13 of the Certificate of Designations)

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Transfer Agent 
Shareowner Services 
161 North Concord Exchange Street 
South St. Paul, MN 55075-1139 
Attn: Suzanne M. Swits

Re:  
       
     American International Group, Inc. 
Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock (the  Series C Preferred Stock ) 

Reference is hereby made to the Certificate of Designations relating to the Series C Preferred
Stock dated March 4, 2009, as such may be amended from time to time (the  Certificate of
Designations ). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings
given them in the Certificate of Designations.

This letter relates to    shares of the Series C Preferred Stock (the  Securities ) which are
held in the form of  a Preferred Share Certificate bearing/uncertificated shares subject to the
restrictions set forth in  the Restricted Share(s) Legend (CUSIP NO. ) in the
name of  name of transferor  (the  Transferor ) to effect the transfer of the Securities.

In connection with such request, and in respect of the Securities, the Transferor does hereby
certify that the Securities are being transferred (i) in accordance with applicable securities laws
of any state of the United States or any other jurisdiction and (ii) in accordance with their
terms:

CHECK ONE BOX BELOW:

(1)

pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended from time to time (the  Securities Act ), provided by Rule 144 thereunder; 

(2)

in accordance with another exemption from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act; 

(3)

to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or 

(4)

pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. 

Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Transfer Agent will refuse to register any of the
Securities in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; provided, however,
that if box (1) or (2) is checked, the Transfer Agent shall be entitled to require, prior to
registering any such transfer of the Securities, such legal opinions, certifications and other

information as the Company has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made
pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of
the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act.

Name of Transferor  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Dated:

cc: 
       
     American International Group, Inc. 
70 Pine Street 
New York, New York 10270 
Attn: Secretary  

EXHIBIT C

FORM OF COMMON STOCK LEGEND

THE SECURITIES REFERRED TO HEREIN HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS
AMENDED (THE  SECURITIES ACT ), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER SUCH SECURITIES NOR ANY
INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED,
ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION
IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. 

EXHIBIT D

FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER FOR COMMON STOCK 
(Transfers pursuant to Section 13 of the Certificate of Designations)

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Transfer Agent 
Shareowner Services 
161 North Concord Exchange Street 
South St. Paul, MN 55075-1139 
Attn: Suzanne M. Swits

Re: 
       
     American International Group, Inc. 
Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock (the  Series C Preferred Stock ) 

Reference is hereby made
to the Certificate of Designations relating to the Series C Preferred
Stock dated March 4, 2009, as such may be amended from time to time (the  Certificate of
Designations ). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings
given them in the Certificate of Designations.

This letter relates to    shares of Common Stock (the  Securities ) that were issued upon
conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock and which are held in the name of  name of transferor 
(the  Transferor ) to effect the transfer of the Securities.

In connection with such request, and in respect of the Securities, the Transferor does hereby
certify that the Securities are being transferred (i) in accordance with applicable securities laws
of any state of the United States or any other jurisdiction and (ii) in accordance with their
terms:

CHECK ONE BOX BELOW:

(1)

pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended from time to time (the  Securities Act ), provided by Rule 144
thereunder; 

(2)

in accordance with another exemption from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act; 

(3)

to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or 

(4)

pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. 

Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Transfer Agent will refuse to register any of the
Securities in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; provided, however,
that if box (1) or (2) is checked, the Transfer Agent shall be entitled to require, prior to
registering any such transfer of the Securities, such legal opinions, certifications and other
information as the Company has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being

made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration
requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under the Securities
Act.

Name of Transferor  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Dated:   

cc:  
       
     American International Group, Inc. 
70 Pine Street 
New York, New York 10270 
Attn: Secretary 

</EX-3.I.F>

<EX-10.6>
 3
 y74794exv10w6.htm
 EX-10.6: AMENDED AND RESTATED 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

EX-10.6 

Exhibit
10(6)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

AMENDED AND RESTATED 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan 

Table of Contents 

-i-

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

ARTICLE I GENERAL 

1.1 PURPOSE 

The purpose of the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock
Incentive Plan is to attract, retain and motivate officers, directors, employees (including
prospective employees), consultants and others who may perform services for the Company, to
compensate them for their contributions to the long-term growth and profits of the Company, and to
encourage them to acquire a proprietary interest in the success of the Company.

1.2 DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN TERMS 

AIG   means American International Group, Inc. or a successor entity contemplated by
Section 3.5.

Award   means an award made pursuant to the Plan.

Award Agreement   means the written document by which each Award is evidenced.

Board   means the Board of Directors of AIG.

Certificate   means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock of AIG.

Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.

Committee   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.1.

Common Stock   means the common stock of AIG, par value $2.50 per share.

Company   means AIG and its subsidiaries.

Covered Person   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.3.

Employment   means a grantee s performance of services for the Company, as determined by the
Committee. The terms  employ  and  employed  shall have their correlative meanings.

Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and
the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.

Fair Market Value   means, with respect to a share of Common Stock on any day, the fair market
value as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.

Plan   means the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive
Plan, as described herein and as hereafter amended from time to time.

Section 409A   means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or successor
provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in
each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further administrative
guidance.

Treasury Regulations   means the regulations promulgated under the Code by the United States
Internal Revenue Service, as amended.

1.3 ADMINISTRATION 

1.3.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be administered by a committee (the
  Committee  ) of the Board to be drawn solely from members of the Board who are not and have not
been officers of the Company. The Committee is authorized, subject to the provisions of the Plan,
to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the
Plan and to make such determinations and interpretations and to take such action in connection with
the Plan and any Award granted thereunder as it deems necessary or advisable. All determinations
and interpretations made by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive on all grantees
and on their legal representatives and beneficiaries. The Committee shall have the authority, in
its absolute discretion, to determine the persons who shall receive Awards, the time when Awards
shall be granted, the terms of such Awards and the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, which
shall be subject to such Awards. Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, but subject to
Section 3.17, the Committee shall have the authority, in its absolute discretion, to (i) amend any
outstanding Award Agreement in any respect, whether or not the rights of the grantee of such Award
are adversely affected, including, without limitation, to accelerate the time or times at which the
Award becomes vested, unrestricted or may be exercised, waive or amend any goals, restrictions or
conditions set forth in such Award Agreement, or impose new goals, restrictions and conditions, or
reflect a change in the grantee s circumstances and (ii) determine whether, to what extent and
under what circumstances and method or methods (A) Awards may be (1) settled in cash, shares of
Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property or (2) canceled, forfeited or
suspended, (B) shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property, and other
amounts payable with respect to an Award may be deferred either automatically or at the election of
the grantee thereof or of the Committee and (C) Awards may be settled by the Company or any of its
designees,  provided  that the Committee may not amend the terms of any outstanding Award without
shareholder approval, unless such amendment is a result of a grantee s termination from employment
due to

-2- 

retirement, death, disability or a change of control. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained herein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, at any time and from time to
time, grant Awards (including grants to members of the Board who are not employees of the Company)
or administer the Plan, in which case the Board shall have all of the authority and responsibility
granted to the Committee herein. To the extent any Award is made to an  officer  (as defined for
purposes of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Exchange Act) or director of AIG, the Award shall be made by
the full Board or a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of at least two  non-employee
directors  (as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act).

1.3.2 Actions of the Committee may be taken by the vote of a majority of its members. The
Committee may allocate among its members and delegate to any person who is not a member of the
Committee any of its administrative responsibilities.

1.3.3 No member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of the Company (each such person
a   Covered Person  ) shall have any liability to any person (including any grantee) for any action
taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or
any Award. Each Covered Person shall be indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any
loss, cost, liability, or expense (including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred
by such Covered Person in connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which
such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any
action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan or any Award Agreement and against and from any
and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with AIG s approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by
such Covered Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against
such Covered Person,  provided  that AIG shall have the right, at its own expense, to assume and
defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the
defense, AIG shall have sole control over such defense with counsel of AIG s choice. To the extent
any taxable expense reimbursement under this paragraph is subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount
thereof eligible in one taxable year shall not affect the amount eligible in any other taxable
year; (y) in no event shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year
following the taxable year in which the Covered Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event
shall any right to reimbursement be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. The
foregoing right of indemnification shall not be available to a Covered Person to the extent that a
court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in either case,
not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving
rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful
misconduct. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of
indemnification to which Covered Persons may be entitled under AIG s Restated Certificate of
Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to
indemnify such persons or hold them harmless.

-3- 

1.4 PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR AWARDS 

Awards under the Plan may be made to such officers, directors, employees (including
prospective employees), consultants and other individuals who may perform services for the Company,
as the Committee may select, except that no Award may be made to directors who are not employees of
the Company without shareholder approval.

1.5 TYPES OF AWARDS UNDER PLAN 

Awards may be made under the Plan in the form of (a) restricted stock, (b) restricted stock
units, (c) dividend equivalent rights and (d) other equity-based or equity-related Awards which the
Committee determines to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan and the interests of the
Company. AIG, however, will not grant stock options pursuant to the Plan.

1.6 SHARES OF COMMON STOCK AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS 

1.6.1  Common Stock Subject to the Plan . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 1.6.2
hereof, the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the Plan through December 31, 2002 is
fifteen million (15,000,000) shares of Common Stock and in each calendar year thereafter shall be
the sum of (a) one million (1,000,000) shares of Common Stock and (b) the number of shares of
Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan in the previous calendar year but not issued in
such year. Such shares of Common Stock may, in the discretion of the Committee, be
either authorized but unissued shares or shares previously issued and reacquired by AIG. If
any Award shall expire, terminate or otherwise lapse, in whole or in part, any shares of Common
Stock subject to such Award (or portion thereof) shall again be available for issuance under the
Plan.

1.6.2  Adjustments . The Committee shall have the authority (but shall not be required) to
adjust the number of shares of Common Stock authorized pursuant to Section 1.6.1 and to adjust
equitably (including, without limitation, by payment of cash) the terms of any outstanding Awards
(including, without limitation, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each outstanding
Award, the type of property to which the Award is subject and the exercise or strike price of any
Award), in such manner as it deems appropriate to preserve the benefits or potential benefits
intended to be made available to grantees of Awards, for any increase or decrease in the number of
issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination or exchange of shares of Common Stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering,
separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares
of AIG;  provided  that no such adjustment shall be made if or to the extent that it would cause any
outstanding Award to fail to comply with Section 409A. After any adjustment made pursuant to this
Section 1.6.2, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each outstanding Award shall be
rounded down to the nearest whole number. For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee may, in its
sole discretion, decline to adjust the

-4- 

terms of any outstanding Award if it determines that such adjustment would violate applicable
law or result in adverse tax consequences to the grantee or to the Company.

1.6.3 There shall be no limit on the amount of cash, securities (other than shares of Common
Stock as provided in this Section 1.6) or other property that may be delivered pursuant to the Plan
or any Award,  provided ,  however , that Awards with respect to no more than 250,000 shares of Common
Stock may be granted to any one grantee in any calendar year, and  provided further , that Awards of
stock appreciation rights with respect to no more than 250,000 shares of Common Stock may be
granted to any one grantee in any calendar year.

ARTICLE II AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN 

2.1 AGREEMENTS EVIDENCING AWARDS 

Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written document which shall contain
such provisions and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate. The Committee may grant Awards
in tandem with or, subject to Section 3.17, in substitution for any other Award or Awards granted
under this Plan or any award granted under any other plan of the Company. By accepting an Award
pursuant to the Plan, a grantee thereby agrees that the Award shall be subject to all of the terms
and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.

2.2 NO RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER 

No grantee of an Award shall have any of the rights of a shareholder of AIG with respect to
shares of Common Stock subject to such Award until the delivery of such shares. Except as
otherwise provided in Section 1.6.2, no adjustments shall be made for dividends, distributions or
other rights (whether ordinary or extraordinary, and whether in cash, Common Stock, other
securities or other property) for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are
delivered.

2.3 GRANT OF RESTRICTED SHARES OF COMMON STOCK 

The Committee may grant or offer for sale restricted shares of Common Stock in such amounts
and subject to Section 2.7 and such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Upon
the delivery of such shares, the grantee shall have the rights of a shareholder with respect to the
restricted stock, subject to Section 2.7 and any other restrictions and conditions as the Committee
may include in the applicable Award Agreement. In the event that a Certificate is issued in
respect of restricted shares of Common Stock, such Certificate may be registered in the name

-5- 

of the grantee but shall be held by AIG or its designated agent until the time the
restrictions lapse.

2.4 GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

The Committee may grant Awards of restricted stock units in such amounts and subject to
Section 2.7 and such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. A grantee of a
restricted stock unit will have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of AIG until
delivery of shares of Common Stock, cash or other securities or property is made as specified in
the applicable Award Agreement. On the delivery date specified in the Award Agreement, the grantee
of each restricted stock unit not previously forfeited or terminated shall receive one share of
Common Stock, or cash, securities or other property equal in value to a share of Common Stock or a
combination thereof, as specified by the Committee.

2.5 GRANT OF DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS 

The Committee may include in the Award Agreement with respect to any Award a dividend
equivalent right entitling the grantee to receive amounts equal to all or any portion of the
dividends that would be paid on the shares of Common Stock covered by such Award if such shares had
been delivered pursuant to such Award. The grantee of a dividend equivalent right will have only
the rights of a general unsecured creditor of AIG until payment of such amounts is made as
specified in the applicable Award Agreement. In the event such a provision is included in an Award
Agreement, the Committee shall, subject to Section 3.17, determine whether such payments shall be
made in cash, in shares of Common Stock or in another form, whether they shall be conditioned upon
the exercise of the Award to which they relate, the time or times at which they shall be made, and
such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall deem appropriate.

2.6 OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS 

The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards (including the
grant or offer for sale of unrestricted shares of Common Stock) in such amounts and subject to such
terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may entail the transfer of
actual shares of Common Stock to Award recipients, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based
on the value of shares of Common Stock, and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to
comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United
States. Any Award made pursuant to this Section 2.6 to a director of the Company or an executive
officer of the Company (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act), must be either (i) granted
in lieu of salary or cash bonus or (ii) limited in the aggregate to five percent (5%) of the shares
of Common Stock authorized under the Plan.

-6- 

2.7 CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS 

In the case of an Award in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock units, at least
three years must elapse before the delivery or payment of shares of Common Stock, cash or other
property, except in the case of (i) termination of employment due to death, disability, retirement
or change of control or (ii) an Award that the Committee determines is performance based, in which
case at least one year must elapse.

ARTICLE III MISCELLANEOUS 

3.1 AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN 

3.1.1 Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, the Board may from time to time
suspend, discontinue, revise or amend the Plan in any respect whatsoever, including in any manner
that adversely affects the rights, duties or obligations of any grantee of an Award.

3.1.2 Unless otherwise determined by the Board, shareholder approval of any suspension,
discontinuance, revision or amendment shall be obtained only to the extent necessary to comply with
any applicable law;  provided ,  however , that, without shareholder approval, neither the Board nor
the Committee may amend the Plan to (i) materially increase the benefits accruing to grantees under
the Plan, (ii) materially increase the number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under
the Plan, or (iii) materially modify the requirements for participation in the Plan.

3.2 TAX WITHHOLDING 

3.2.1 Grantees shall be solely responsible for any applicable taxes (including, without
limitation, income and excise taxes) and penalties, and any interest that accrues thereon, that
they incur in connection with the receipt, vesting or exercise of any Award. As a condition to the
delivery of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any Award or the lifting or lapse of
restrictions on any Award, or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a federal or
other governmental tax withholding obligation on the part of the Company relating to an Award
(including, without limitation, FICA tax), (a) the Company may deduct or withhold (or cause to be
deducted or withheld) from any payment or distribution to a grantee whether or not pursuant to the
Plan or (b) the Committee shall be entitled to require that the grantee remit cash to the Company
(through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case in an amount sufficient in the opinion of
the Company to satisfy such withholding obligation.

-7- 

3.3 REQUIRED CONSENTS AND LEGENDS 

3.3.1 If the Committee shall at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter defined)
is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any Award, the
delivery of shares of Common Stock or the delivery of any cash, securities or other property under
the Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action being hereinafter referred
to as a  plan action ), then, subject to Section 3.17, such plan action shall not be taken, in
whole or in part, unless and until such consent shall have been effected or obtained to the full
satisfaction of the Committee. The Committee may direct that any Certificate evidencing shares
delivered pursuant to the Plan shall bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on
transferability as the Committee may determine to be necessary or desirable, and may advise the
transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended shares.

3.3.2 The term  consent  as used in this Section 3.3 with respect to any plan action includes
(a) any and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities
exchange or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction
outside the United States, (b) or any other matter, which the Committee may deem necessary or
desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain
an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made,
(c) any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any
governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (d) any
and all consents or other documentation required by the Committee. Nothing herein shall require
AIG to list, register or qualify the shares of Common Stock on any securities exchange.

3.4 NONASSIGNABILITY; NO HEDGING 

Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in the applicable Award Agreement or
determined by the Committee, no Award (or any rights and obligations thereunder) granted to any
person under the Plan may be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or
otherwise disposed of or hedged, in any manner (including through the use of any cash-settled
instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily and whether by operation of law or otherwise,
other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and all such Awards (and any rights
thereunder) shall be exercisable during the life of the grantee only by the grantee or the
grantee s legal representative. Any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation,
or other disposition in violation of the provisions of this Section 3.4 shall be null and void and
any Award which is hedged in any manner shall immediately be forfeited. All of the terms and
conditions of this Plan and the Award Agreements shall be binding upon any permitted successors and
assigns.

-8- 

3.5 SUCCESSOR ENTITY 

Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement and except as otherwise determined
by the Committee, in the event of a merger, consolidation, mandatory share exchange or other
similar business combination of AIG with or into any other entity (  Successor Entity  ) or any
transaction in which another person or entity acquires all of the issued and outstanding Common
Stock of AIG, or all or substantially all of the assets of AIG, outstanding Awards may be assumed
or a substantially equivalent award may be substituted by such successor entity or a parent or
subsidiary of such successor entity.

3.6 RIGHT OF DISCHARGE RESERVED 

Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Agreement shall confer upon any grantee the right to
continue Employment by the Company or affect any right which the Company may have to terminate such
Employment.

3.7 NATURE OF PAYMENTS 

3.7.1 Any and all grants of Awards and deliveries of Common Stock, cash, securities or other
property under the Plan shall be in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the
Company by the grantee. Awards under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, and subject
to Section 3.17, be made in substitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation
otherwise payable to a participant in the Plan. Only whole shares of Common Stock shall be
delivered under the Plan. Awards shall, to the extent reasonably practicable, be aggregated in
order to eliminate any fractional shares. Fractional shares shall be rounded down to the nearest
whole share and any such fractional shares shall be forfeited.

3.7.2 All such grants and deliveries shall constitute a special discretionary incentive
payment to the grantee and shall not be required to be taken into account in computing the amount
of salary or compensation of the grantee for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any
benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other
benefit plan of the Company or under any agreement with the grantee, unless the Company
specifically provides otherwise.

3.8 NON-UNIFORM DETERMINATIONS 

The Committee s determinations under the Plan and Award Agreements need not be uniform and may
be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the
Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective
determinations under Award Agreements, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award

-9- 

Agreements, as to (a) the persons to receive Awards, (b) the terms and provisions of Awards
and (c) whether a grantee s Employment has been terminated for purposes of the Plan.

3.9 OTHER PAYMENTS OR AWARDS 

Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed in any way to limit or restrict the Company from
making any award or payment to any person under any other plan, arrangement or understanding,
whether now existing or hereafter in effect.

3.10 PLAN HEADINGS 

The headings in this Plan are for the purpose of convenience only and are not intended to
define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

3.11 TERMINATION OF PLAN 

The Board reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time;  provided ,  however , that in any
case, the Plan shall terminate March 13, 2012, and  provided further , that all Awards made under the
Plan prior to its termination shall remain in effect until such Awards have been satisfied or
terminated in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award
Agreements.

3.12 GOVERNING LAW 

THIS PLAN SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

3.13 SEVERABILITY; ENTIRE AGREEMENT 

If any of the provisions of this Plan or any Award Agreement is finally held to be invalid,
illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision shall be deemed modified to
the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the
remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby;  provided , that if any of such provisions is
finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope
determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision shall be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such
provision enforceable hereunder. The Plan and any Award Agreements contain

-10- 

the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersede
all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and
warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.

3.14 WAIVER OF CLAIMS 

Each grantee of an Award recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by the Committee
to receive an Award he or she has no right to any benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in
consideration of the grantee s receipt of any Award hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right
to contest the amount of any Award, the terms of any Award Agreement, any determination, action or
omission hereunder or under any Award Agreement by the Committee, the Company or the Board, or any
amendment to the Plan or any Award Agreement (other than an amendment to this Plan or an Award
Agreement to which his or her consent is expressly required by the express terms of an Award
Agreement).

3.15 NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES 

Except as expressly provided therein, neither the Plan nor any Award Agreement shall confer on
any person other than the Company and the grantee of any Award any rights or remedies thereunder.
The exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 1.3.3 shall inure to the benefit of a
Covered Person s estate and beneficiaries and legatees.

3.16 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS OF AIG 

The terms of this Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of AIG and any successor
entity contemplated by Section 3.5.

3.17 SECTION 409A 

3.17.1 All Awards made under the Plan that are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject
to Section 409A shall be interpreted, administered and construed to comply with Section 409A, and
all Awards made under the Plan that are intended to be exempt from Section 409A shall be
interpreted, administered and construed to comply with and preserve such exemption. The Board and
the Committee shall have full authority to give effect to the intent of the foregoing sentence. To
the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential
inconsistency between the Plan and a provision of any Award or Award Agreement with respect to an
Award, the Plan shall govern.

-11- 

3.17.2 Without limiting the generality of Section 3.17.1, with respect to any Award made under
the Plan that is intended to be  deferred compensation  subject to Section 409A: (a) references to
termination of the grantee s employment will mean the grantee s separation from service with the
Company within the meaning of Section 409A; (b) any payment to be made with respect to such Award
in connection with the grantee s separation from service with the Company within the meaning of
Section 409A that would be subject to the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be
delayed until six months after the grantee s separation from service (or earlier death) in
accordance with the requirements of Section 409A; (c) to the extent necessary to comply with
Section 409A, any other securities, other Awards or other property that the Company may deliver in
lieu of shares of Common Stock in respect of an Award shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with respect to
the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects
a later date for this purpose in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A); (d) with
respect to any required Consent described in Section 3.3 or the applicable Award Agreement, if such
Consent has not been effected or obtained as of the latest date provided by such Award Agreement
for payment in respect of such Award and further delay of payment is not permitted in accordance
with the requirements of Section 409A, such Award or portion thereof, as applicable, will be
forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning or vesting; (e) if the Award includes a
 series of installment payments  (within the meaning of Section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations), the grantee s right to the series of
installment payments shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments and not as a
right to a single payment; (f) if the Award includes  dividend equivalents  (within the meaning of
Section 1.409A-3(e) of the Treasury Regulations), the grantee s right to the dividend equivalents
shall be treated separately from the right to other amounts under the Award; and (g) unless the
Committee determines otherwise, for purposes of determining whether the grantee has experienced a
separation from service with the Company within the meaning of Section 409A,  subsidiary  shall
mean a corporation or other entity in a chain of corporations or other entities in which each
corporation or other entity, starting with AIG, has a controlling interest in another corporation
or other entity in the chain, ending with such corporation or other entity. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, the term  controlling interest  has the same meaning as provided in
Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of the Treasury Regulations, provided that the language  at least 20
percent  is used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place it appears in
Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of the Treasury Regulations.

3.18 NO LIABILITY WITH RESPECT TO TAX QUALIFICATION OR ADVERSE TAX TREATMENT 

3.18.1 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in no event shall the
Company be liable to a grantee on account of an Award s failure to (a) qualify for favorable United
States or foreign tax treatment or (b) avoid adverse tax treatment under United States or foreign
law, including, without limitation, Section 409A.

-12- 

3.19 DATE OF ADOPTION AND APPROVAL OF SHAREHOLDERS 

The Plan was adopted on March 13, 2002 by the Board and approved by the shareholders of AIG at
the 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Plan was amended and restated effective as of
September 18, 2002 and effective as of December 31, 2008.

-13- 

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.49>
 4
 y74794exv10w49.htm
 EX-10.49: 2005 SENIORS PARTNERS PLAN

EX-10.49 

American International Group, Inc.  

2005 Senior Partners Plan    
   (Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008)   

1.    Purpose  

The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the
" Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc. (  AIG  ) has determined that certain key
employees of AIG and its subsidiaries (together, the   Employer  ) contribute substantially to the
long-term growth and profitability of AIG. AIG has created this AIG 2005 Senior Partners Plan
(this   Plan  ) to reward these individuals and to provide incentives for their continued
contribution to the long-term performance of AIG.

2.    SPUs and Participants  

A.  
       
      2005 Senior Partner Units . Senior Partner Units (  SPUs  ) issued under this
Plan will entitle holders to receive cash distributions from AIG, subject to the terms
and conditions of this Plan. 

B.  
       
      Participants.  The Committee will determine (1) the key employees of the
Employer who will be awarded SPUs under this Plan (the   Participants  ) and (2) the
number of SPUs held by each Participant. It is expected that no SPUs will be awarded
under this Plan after December 31, 2005. 

C.  
       
      Maximum Number of SPUs . A maximum of 30,000 SPUs may be awarded. 

3.    Value Amount per SPU  

Each SPU will entitle a Participant to receive a cash distribution of $2,200 (the   2005 SPU
Value Amount  ) from AIG, subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan.

4.    Vesting and Payouts of 2005 SPU Value Amount  

A.  
       
      General . The 2005 SPU Value Amount of each SPU will be paid out to
Participants in cash promptly after January 1, 2011 (the   Scheduled Payment Date  ),
but no later than the end of 2011. Except as provided in Sections 4B and 6A, if a
Participant s employment with the Employer is terminated for any reason, the
Participant s rights in respect of any 2005 SPU Value Amount that would be payable on
the Scheduled Payment Date will be forfeited and terminate. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if a Scheduled Payment Date occurs at a time when a Participant is
considered by AIG to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section
162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  ), then,
unless the Committee determines 

otherwise, payout of the Weighted-Average SPU Value in respect of such Scheduled
Payment Date may be deferred by the Employer under the circumstances described in
Section 409A until the earliest date that the Employer reasonably anticipates that
the deduction or payment will not be limited or eliminated. 

B.  
       
      Death, Disability or Retirement after Age 65 . If a Participant dies, becomes
subject to Disability or terminates employment by means of retirement at or after age
65 (  Retires  ), in each case while actively employed by the Employer, any remaining
unpaid 2005 SPU Value Amount will be paid to the Participant or his/her estate or
guardian, as the case may be, promptly after the date of such event, but no later than
90 days after such event (in the case of death or Disability) or the end of the
calendar year in which such event falls (in the case of Retirement), as applicable.
For this purpose,   Disability   means a period of medically determined physical or
mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period of not less
than 36 months during which a Participant qualifies for income replacement benefits
under the Employer s long-term disability plan for at least six months, or, if a
Participant does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which
the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of
any medically determined physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result
in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 36
months. 

C.  
       
      Election to Delay Payment . The Committee may, in its sole discretion,
determine to defer payment of the 2005 SPU Value Amount or permit a Participant to
elect to defer payment of the 2005 SPU Value Amount, in each case in a manner that
conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code. 

5.    Dividend-Related Payments  

A.  
       
      General . Beginning in 2006, each Participant will be paid a cash
dividend-related amount on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 based upon
their unpaid 2005 SPU Value Amount. The quarterly dividend-related payment for each
Participant will equal (1) his or her aggregate unpaid 2005 SPU Value Amount at the
beginning of the quarter  multiplied by  (2) the total cash dividends AIG pays on its
common stock during the quarter  divided by  (3) the Adjusted Book Value at the
beginning of the quarter. 

B.  
       
      Definitions .   Adjusted Book Value   means, for any date, the total AIG
shareholders  equity as of the date  minus  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (or
 plus  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) as of such date (as reported in AIG s
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity) with such adjustments as the Committee
may make in its sole discretion. 

2 

C.  
       
      Termination of Employment . If a Participant s employment with the Employer
is terminated for any reason, the Participant s rights to receive any further
dividend-related payment will terminate. 

6.    Administration of this Plan  

A.  
       
      General . This Plan will be administered by the Committee. Actions of the
Committee may be taken by the vote of a majority of its members. The Committee may
allocate among its members and delegate to any person who is not a member of the
Committee any of its administrative responsibilities. The Committee will have power
to interpret this Plan, to make regulations for carrying out its purpose and to make
all other determinations in connection with its administration (including, without
limitation, whether a Participant has become subject to Disability), all of which
will, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, be final, binding and conclusive.
In addition, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, reinstate any SPUs, 2005 SPU
Value Amounts or dividend-related payments that would otherwise have been terminated
and forfeited because of a Participant s termination of employment, if the Participant
complies with any covenants, agreements or conditions that the Committee may impose;
 provided, however , that any such payments will not be paid until the scheduled times
set forth in this Plan. 

B.  
       
      Non-Uniform Determinations . The Committee s determinations under this Plan
need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or
are eligible to receive, SPUs under this Plan (whether or not such persons are
similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee
will be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations
as to the persons to become Participants. 

C.  
       
      Determination of Employment . The Committee will have the right to determine
itself with respect to any Participant the commencement date of the Participant s
employment with the Employer solely for purposes of this Plan, separate and apart from
any determination as may be made by AIG or its subsidiaries with respect to the
individual s employment. 

D.  
       
      Amendments.  The Committee will have the power to amend this Plan in any
manner and at any time, including in a manner adverse to the rights of the
Participants;  provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not
accelerate or postpone any payment to a Participant to occur at a time other than the
time provided for in this Plan. 

E.  
       
      No Liability . No member of the Board of Directors of AIG or the Committee or
any employee of the Employer (each, a   Covered Person  ) will have any liability to any
person (including any Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any
determination made in good faith with respect to this Plan or any Participant s
participation in it. Each Covered Person will be 

3 

indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability, or
expense (including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such
Covered Person in connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding
to which such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered Person may be
involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under this Plan and
against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with AIG s
approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of
any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person,
 provided  that AIG will have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any
such action, suit or proceeding and, once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume
the defense, AIG will have sole control over such defense with counsel of AIG s
choice. To the extent any taxable expense reimbursement under this paragraph is
subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount thereof eligible in one taxable year shall
not affect the amount eligible in any other taxable year; (y) in no event shall any
expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year following the taxable
year in which the Covered Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event shall
any right to reimbursement be subject to liquidation or exchange for another
benefit. The foregoing right of indemnification will not be available to a Covered
Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or
other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines
that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the
indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or
willful misconduct. The foregoing right of indemnification will not be exclusive
of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered Persons may be entitled
under AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or
otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such persons or hold
them harmless. 

F.  
       
      Other . In furtherance of AIG s policies, notwithstanding Section 2, if any
Participant is a shareholder in C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. on March 31, 2006, such person
will cease to be a Participant, his or her SPUs will be forfeited and terminate and he
or she will have no rights under this Plan (in each case, unless the Committee
determines otherwise). 

7.    General Rules  

A.  
       
      No Funding . AIG will be under no obligation to fund or set aside amounts to
pay obligations under this Plan. Participants will have no rights to the 2005 SPU
Value Amount other than as a general unsecured creditor of AIG. 

B.  
       
      Tax Withholding . As a condition to the payment of any amount under this Plan
or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a federal or other
governmental tax withholding obligation (1) AIG may deduct or withhold (or cause to be
deducted or withheld) from any payment to a Participant whether or not pursuant to
this Plan or (2) the Committee will be entitled to require that the Participant remit 

4 

cash to AIG (through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case, in an amount
sufficient in the opinion of AIG to satisfy such withholding obligation. 

C.  
       
      No Rights to Other Payments . The provisions of this Plan provide no right or
eligibility to a Participant to any other payouts from AIG or its subsidiaries under
any other alternative plans, schemes, arrangements or contracts AIG may have with any
employees or group of employees of AIG or its subsidiaries. 

D.  
       
      No Effect on Benefits . Grants and payments under this Plan will constitute a
special discretionary incentive payment to the Participants and will not be required
to be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the
Participants for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under
any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other
benefit plan of the Employer or under any agreement with the Participant, unless the
Employer specifically provides otherwise. 

E.  
       
      Section 409A . 

(1) 
       
     SPUs are intended to provide payments that are  deferred
compensation  subject to Section 409A, and this Plan is intended to, and will
be interpreted, administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A with
respect to the SPUs. For this purpose,   Section 409A   means Section 409A of
the Code, including any amendments or successor provisions to that section,
and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in each case
as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further
administrative guidance. The Committee will have full authority to give
effect to the intent of this Section 7E. 

(2) 
       
     Without limiting the generality of Section 7E(1), (a)
references to the termination of a Participant s employment with respect to
SPUs will mean the Participant s separation from service with the Employer
within the meaning of Section 409A, and (b) the right to dividend-related
payments pursuant to Section 5 will be treated separately from the right to
payment of the 2005 SPU Value Amount for all purposes of Section 409A. 

(3) 
       
     Any payment to be made under the SPUs in connection with
termination of a Participant s employment (and any other payment under this
Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the
Code will be delayed until six months after termination of the Participant s
employment (or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section
409A.

5 

(4) 
       
     Each payment under the SPUs will be treated as a separate
payment for purposes of Section 409A. 

F.  
       
      Severability . If any of the provisions of this Plan is finally held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision will
be deemed modified to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining provisions will not be affected
thereby;  provided  that if any of such provisions is finally held to be invalid,
illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope determined to be
acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision will be deemed
to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder. 

G.  
       
      Entire Agreement . This Plan contains the entire agreement of the parties
with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersedes all prior agreements,
promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties
between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof. 

H.  
       
      Waiver of Claims . Each Participant recognizes and agrees that prior to being
selected by the Committee to receive a SPU he or she has no right to any benefits
under this Plan. Accordingly, in consideration of the Participant s receipt of any SPU
hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right to contest the amount of any SPU, the
terms of this Plan, any determination, action or omission hereunder by the Committee
or AIG or any amendment to this Plan. 

I.  
       
      No Third Party Beneficiaries . Except as expressly provided therein, this
Plan will not confer on any person other than AIG and the Participant any rights or
remedies thereunder. The exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 6E will
inure to the benefit of a Covered Person s estate and beneficiaries and legatees. 

J.  
       
      AIG s Successors and Assigns . The terms of this Plan will be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of AIG and its successors and assigns. 

K.  
       
      Nonassignability . The SPUs, 2005 SPU Value Amounts and dividend-related
payments will not be assignable, transferable, pledged, hedged or in any manner
alienated, whether by operation of law or otherwise, except as a result of death or
incapacity where such rights are passed pursuant to a will or by operation of law.
The Committee may in its sole discretion acknowledge the written direction by a
Participant to transfer his/her SPUs under this Plan to a revocable grantor trust in
such form and on such conditions as the Committee may require in its sole discretion.
Any assignment, transfer, pledge, or other disposition in violation of the provisions
of this Section 7K will be null and void and any SPUs which are hedged in any manner
will immediately be forfeited. 

6 

L.  
       
      Right to Discharge . Nothing contained in this Plan or in any SPU will confer
on any Participant any right to be continued in the employ
of the Employer or to be included in any future plans of a similar nature. 

M.  
       
      Consent . If the Committee will at any time determine that any consent (as
hereinafter defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection
with, the granting of any SPUs, determination of the 2005 SPU Value Amount or the
payment of any amount under this Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder
(each such action, a   plan action  ), then such plan action will not be taken, in whole
or in part, unless and until such consent will have been effected or obtained to the
full satisfaction of the Committee. The term   consent   as used in this Section 7M
includes (1) any and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof
upon any securities exchange or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule
or regulation of a jurisdiction outside the United States, (2) any other matter, which
the Committee may deem necessary or desirable to comply with the terms of any such
listing, registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement
that any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (3) any and all other
consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any governmental or
other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (4) any and
all consents required by the Committee;  provided  that if such consent has not been so
effected or obtained as of the latest date provided by this Plan for payment of such
amount and further delay is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of
Section 409A, such amount will be forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior
earning or vesting. 

N.  
       
      Adoption . This Plan was adopted on December 14, 2005 by the Committee. This
Plan was amended and restated by the Committee on November 11, 2008. 

8.    Disputes  

A.  
       
      Governing Law . This Plan will be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of
laws. 

B.  
       
      Arbitration . Subject to the provisions of this Section 8, any dispute,
controversy or claim between AIG and a Participant, arising out of or relating to or
concerning this Plan or any SPU, will be finally settled by arbitration in New York
City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock
Exchange, Inc. (the   NYSE  ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if
the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association
(the   AAA  ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to
arbitration, all claims maintained by a Participant must first be submitted to the
Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the Committee.

7 

C.  
       
      Jurisdiction . AIG and each Participant hereby irrevocably submit to the
exclusive jurisdiction of a state or federal court of appropriate
jurisdiction located in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York over any
suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or
any SPU that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to Section 8B. AIG
and each Participant acknowledge that the forum designated by this Section has a
reasonable relation to this Plan and to such Participant s relationship with AIG. 

D.  
       
      Waiver . AIG and each Participant waive, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, any objection which AIG and such Participant now or hereafter may have
to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court referred to in Section 8C. AIG and each Participant undertake
not to commence any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or
concerning this Plan or any SPU in any forum other than a forum described in Section
8C. 

E.  
       
      Service of Process . Each Participant irrevocably appoints the Secretary of
AIG at 70 Pine Street, New York, New York 10270, U.S.A. as his or her agent for
service of process in connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or
relating to or concerning this Plan or any SPU that is not otherwise arbitrated or
resolved according to Section 8A. The Secretary will promptly advise the Participant
of any such service of process. 

F.  
       
      Confidentiality . Each Participant must keep confidential any information
concerning any grant made under this Plan and any dispute, controversy or claim
relating to this Plan, except that a Participant may disclose information concerning a
dispute or claim to the court that is considering such dispute or to such
Participant s legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any
such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the
dispute). 

9.    Term of Plan  

This Plan will continue until suspended or terminated by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Any termination of this Plan will be done in a manner that the Committee determines complies with
Section 409A.

8 

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 5
 y74794exv10w50.htm
 EX-10.50: 2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN FOR SENIOR PARTNERS

EX-10.50 

Exhibit 10(50)

American International Group, Inc.   

2005/2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan    

(   Senior Partners   )  

(Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008)   

1.    Purpose and Structure  

The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the
  Compensation Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc. (  AIG  ) has determined that certain
key employees of AIG and its subsidiaries (together, the   Employer  ) contribute substantially to
the growth of the value of the assets and income of AIG. AIG has created this AIG 2005/2006
Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan to reward these individuals (the   Participants  )
and to provide incentives for their continued contribution to the growth of AIG.

The AIG 2005/2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan (the   Plan  ) is composed of
three plan documents, one for Participants in the  Senior Partner  category, one for Participants
in the  Partner  category and one for Participants in the  Associate  category. These documents
describe features that differ among these categories of Participants but together constitute one
Plan. This is the Plan document for participants in the  Senior Partner  category.

2.    Participation and Units  

The Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a list of the Participants
in the Plan (from the employees of the Employer) and express an amount of participation in the Plan
in  units  next to each name that shall indicate the level of participation of the Participant.
Categories of participation shall be divided, based on the number of allocated units, into
Associate, Partner or Senior Partner.

Participants granted 1000 or more participation units under the Plan are referred to as
 Senior Partners .

All participation units under the Plan shall be deemed to be granted effective January 1, 2005
(the   Grant Date  ), regardless of when an individual becomes a Participant. The term of the Plan
shall commence January 1, 2005 and shall continue to December 31, 2006.

3.    Initial Allocated AIG Stock and EPS Threshold  

AIG shall cause an account to be kept in the name of each Participant that shall reflect the
shares of common stock of AIG, par value $2.50 per share (the   AIG Stock  ), if any, contingently
allocated to each Participant under the Plan. If the EPS Growth Threshold (as defined below) is
satisfied, each Senior Partner Participant employed by the Employer at December 31, 2006 shall have
contingently allocated

to such Participant s account 16 shares of AIG Stock for each participation unit granted to
such Participant (such Participant s   Initial Allocated AIG Stock  ).

The   EPS Growth Threshold   shall be satisfied if the cumulative earnings per share of AIG
Stock during the two year term of the Plan exceeds cumulative earnings per share of AIG Stock
during the two year period commencing January 1, 2003 and ending December 31, 2004. For this
purpose earnings per share shall be determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion
in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (1) without giving effect to
realized capital gains or losses, net of tax; the cumulative affect of changes in accounting
treatment during the relevant periods, net of tax; FAS 133 gains and losses, excluding realized
capital gains or losses, net of tax; or extraordinary items related to acquisition, restructuring
and related charges, net of tax, (2) with adjustments for any stock split or stock dividend during
the relevant period, (3) with adjustments in the case of cash acquisitions in excess of $5 billion
to equalize the effect of acquisitions for cash and acquisitions for AIG Stock, (4) giving effect
to any restatement in earnings per share for the relevant period and (5) with such other
adjustments as the Compensation Committee may make to provide consistency between the two year term
of the Plan and the two year period commencing January 1, 2003 and ending December 31, 2004. For
the avoidance of doubt, the preceding adjustments may be made by the Compensation Committee in its
sole discretion.

4.    Payouts of Initial Allocated AIG Stock  

Subject to the following terms and conditions, each Senior Partner Participant shall receive:

A. 
       
     promptly after May 1, 2009 (but no later than the end of 2009), providing
that such Participant is employed by the Employer at such time, fifty percent (50%) of
such Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock (less any withholding taxes required
thereon); and 

B. 
       
     promptly after May 1, 2010 (but no later than the end of 2010), providing
that such Participant is employed by the Employer at such time, fifty percent (50%) of
such Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock (less any withholding taxes required
thereon). 

5.    Payouts of Incremental Amount  

The amounts described in this section shall be contingently allocated to the account of each
Senior Partner Participant in accordance with the rules of the Plan, regardless of any payouts
received by such Participant under section 4.

A. 
       
     If any Senior Partner Participant is employed with the Employer as of March
1, 2012, an additional amount of AIG Stock equal to twenty percent (20%) of such
Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock shall be paid to such Participant promptly
thereafter (but no later than the end of 2012) (such Participant s   Incremental
Amount   and, together with such Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock, such
Participant s   Allocated AIG Stock  ).

2 

B. 
       
     Notwithstanding the conditions of section 5 A, if a Senior Partner
Participant terminates employment with the Employer by means of retirement after
reaching age 65 (  Retires  ), dies or becomes subject to Disability, such Participant
shall be entitled in accordance with section 7 to such portion of the Incremental
Amount contingently allocated under this section as follows: 

(1) 
       
     25% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
within 6 months from the Grant Date; 

(2) 
       
     50% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
on or after 6 months but within 12 months from the Grant Date; 

(3) 
       
     75% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
on or after 12 months but within 18 months from the Grant Date; and 

(4) 
       
     100% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
on or after 18 months from the Grant Date. 

C. 
       
     If a Senior Partner Participant retires or is terminated with the consent of
the Compensation Committee prior to age 65 and satisfies the covenants, agreements and
conditions as provided by section 6 A, such Participant may be entitled in accordance
with section 7 to such portion of the Incremental Amount contingently allocated to the
Participant s account under this section, the numerator of which shall be the number
of years from the Grant Date to the date of such retirement or termination, and the
denominator of which shall be eight (8). If the retirement or termination with
consent of the Compensation Committee occurs within the first 6 months of a calendar
year no credit for any part of the year shall be provided in calculating the numerator
of the fraction. If such event occurs during the last six months of a calendar year,
a full year of service shall be included in the numerator of the fraction. 

6.    Retirement or Termination with Consent of Compensation Committee  

A. 
       
     Notwithstanding the limitations provided in section 7 A that deprive a
Participant who retires, terminates, is terminated or otherwise departs prior to age
65 of any rights to such Participant s Allocated AIG Stock, but subject to section 6
B, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, reinstate such contingent
rights to the Allocated AIG Stock as provided in B (1) through (3) herein, if and only
if, such Participant complies with such covenants, agreements and conditions as the
Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, impose from the time of early
termination of employment to age 65. 

B. 
       
     Any Participant who receives the consent of the Compensation Committee to reinstate the
contingent rights to such Participant s Allocated AIG Stock under this section shall be entitled to
the 

3 

following amounts after appropriate determination that the required covenants, agreements
and conditions of subsection A have been complied with:

(1) 
       
     one hundred percent (100%) of the Participant s Initial
Allocated AIG Stock or, if such retirement occurs before the end of the two
year term of the Plan, such portion of the Participant s Initial Allocated AIG
Stock as determined under section 8; 

(2) 
       
     plus such portion of the Incremental Amount as described in
section 5 C; 

(3) 
       
     less any Allocated AIG Stock previously distributed under the
provisions of section 4; 

provided, however , that any Allocated AIG Stock reinstated pursuant to this section
6 will not be paid until the payment times set forth in sections 4 and 5.

7.  
       
       General Rules   

Each Participant s Allocated AIG Stock shall not vest and shall continue to be governed by and
contingently reserved for the Participant in accordance with the Plan s terms and conditions until
the payment times set forth in sections 4 and 5 above.

A. 
       
     The Participant will forfeit any and all rights to or interest in any
undistributed Allocated AIG Stock contingently allocated to the Participant s account
in the event his/her employment with the Employer terminates or is terminated before
the applicable payment time set forth in section 4 or section 5 for any reason
including, but not limited to, redundancy or dismissal prior to Retirement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant (1) dies, (2) becomes subject to
Disability or (3) Retires, in each case while a full time employee with the Employer,
the Participant or his/her estate, heir or successors, as the case may be, shall
become entitled to receive any Allocated AIG Stock contingently allocated to the
Participant s account as provided hereunder no later than 90 days after the date of
such event (in the case of death or Disability) or no later than the end of the
calendar year in which such event occurs (in the case of Retirement), as applicable.
For this purpose,   Disability   means a period of medically determined physical or
mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period of not less
than 36 months during which a Participant qualifies for income replacement benefits
under the Employer s long-term disability plan for at least six months, or, if a
Participant does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which
the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of
any medically determined physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result
in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 36
months. 

4 

B. 
       
     The Participant will have no rights as a stockholder of AIG, and therefore
will not be entitled to cash dividends paid on the Allocated AIG Stock nor to vote
such stock until the AIG Stock is delivered to such individual by AIG under the terms
described in the Plan. Unless the Compensation Committee makes an adjustment pursuant
to the following sentence, all stock dividends or splits with respect to any Allocated
AIG Stock occurring after December 31, 2006 shall accrue and accumulate and be paid in
kind at the same time as the Allocated AIG Stock to which such stock dividend or split
relates. The Compensation Committee shall have the authority (but shall not be
required) to adjust equitably the shares of AIG Stock to be allocated for each
participation unit pursuant to section 3 and the shares of Allocated AIG Stock in such
manner as it deems appropriate to preserve the benefits or potential benefits intended
to be made available to Participants (including, without limitation, by payment of
cash or by substituting or adding other securities or property) for any change in the
AIG Stock resulting from a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination
or exchange of shares of AIG Stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering,
separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate
structure or shares of AIG;  provided  that no such adjustment shall be made if or to
the extent that it would cause any payment under this Plan to fail to comply with
Section 409A. After any adjustment made pursuant to this section, the number of
shares of each Participant s Allocated AIG Stock shall be rounded down to the nearest
whole number. For the avoidance of doubt, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole
discretion, decline to adjust the terms of any outstanding Allocated AIG Stock if it
determines that such adjustment would violate applicable law or result in adverse tax
consequences to the Participant or to the Employer. 

C. 
       
     For the avoidance of doubt, any Participant elections with respect to the
payment of Allocated AIG Stock made prior to the amendment of the Plan on March 11,
2008 will be disregarded for all purposes, and such Allocated AIG Stock will be paid
only at the times provided for in the Plan. 

D. 
       
     The Compensation Committee in its sole discretion reserves the right of final
determination of whether to distribute to the Participant either the shares of AIG
Stock or an amount of cash equivalent in value to the fair market value of such shares
of AIG Stock. 

E. 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision existing within the Plan, a Participant
must have rendered service to one or more Employers for a period of at least four (4)
years before being considered eligible for any distributions under the Plan, subject
to any longer period of service required by any other provision of the Plan for any
payouts under any provision of the Plan. 

F. 
       
     The provisions of the Plan provide no right or eligibility to a Participant
to any other payouts from AIG, its subsidiaries or affiliates under any other
alternative plans, schemes, arrangements 

5 

or contracts AIG may have with any employees or group of employees of AIG, its
subsidiaries or affiliates. 

G. 
       
     Shares of AIG Stock delivered to a Participant under the Plan shall be
treated as an  Award  made pursuant to the AIG 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
from time to time (the   SIP  ), and, except as modified by this Plan, all terms of the
SIP shall apply to this Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision existing within the
Plan, the amount of Allocated AIG Stock contingently allocated to any Participant s
account shall not exceed any per person per period award limit under the SIP. 

H. 
       
     Only whole shares of AIG Stock shall be delivered under the Plan. Fractional
shares shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share and any such fractional shares
shall be forfeited. 

I. 
       
     Grants and deliveries under the Plan shall constitute a special discretionary
incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be required to be taken into
account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the
purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension,
retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of
the Employer or under any agreement with the Participant, unless the Employer
specifically provides otherwise. 

J. 
       
     The Plan is intended to provide payments that are  deferred compensation 
subject to Section 409A, and the Plan is intended to, and will be interpreted,
administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A. For this purpose,   Section
409A   means Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
  Code  ), including any amendments or successor provisions to that section, and any
regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they may be
from time to time amended or interpreted through further administrative guidance. The
Compensation Committee will have full authority to give effect to the intent of this
section 7 J. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (1) references to the
termination of a Participant s employment will mean the Participant s separation from
service with AIG within the meaning of Section 409A; (2) any payment to be made under
the Plan in connection with termination of a Participant s employment (and any other
payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section
409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code will be delayed until six months after termination of the
Participant s employment (or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of
Section 409A; (3) to the extent necessary to comply with the foregoing, any securities
or other property that the Employer may deliver in lieu of AIG Stock or cash will not
have the effect of deferring delivery or payment beyond the date on which such
delivery or payment would occur with respect to the AIG Stock that would otherwise
have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose in
accordance with section 7 J (5)); (4) each payment under the Plan will be treated as a
separate payment for purposes of Section 409A; 

6 

and (5) the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
a payment under the Plan or permit a Participant to elect to defer a payment under
the Plan, in each case in a manner that conforms to the requirements of Section
409A(a)(4) of the Code. 

8.  
       
       Death, Disability or Retirement In The First Two Years Of Plan   

If a Participant dies, becomes subject to Disability, or retires with the consent of the
Compensation Committee as provided in section 6 during the two year term of the Plan (except that
Retirement does not need the consent of the Compensation Committee):

A. 
       
     within the first six months after the Grant Date, the Participant will
receive following determination one fourth of the appropriate Initial Allocated AIG
Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

B. 
       
     on or after six months but within one year of the Grant Date, the Participant
will receive following determination one half of the appropriate Initial Allocated AIG
Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

C. 
       
     on or after twelve months but within eighteen months of the Grant Date, the
Participant will receive following determination three fourths of the appropriate
Initial Allocated AIG Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan;
and 

D. 
       
     on or after eighteen months from the Grant Date, the Participant will receive
following determination one hundred percent (100%) of the appropriate Initial
Allocated AIG Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

in each case which would have been allocated to his or her account at the end of the second year of
the Plan and in each case excluding the Incremental Amount (which portion available for payment
shall be determined under section 5 B or C).

9.  
       
       Non-Assignable   

Any rights or expectancy thereof which a Participant may receive pursuant to the Plan shall
not be assignable, transferable, pledged, hedged or in any manner alienated, whether by operation
of law or otherwise, except as a result of death or incapacity where such rights are passed
pursuant to a will or by operation of law. The Compensation Committee may in its sole discretion
acknowledge the written direction by a Participant to transfer his/her contingent rights under the
Plan to a revocable grantor trust in such form and on such conditions as such officer may require
in his or her sole discretion. Any assignment, transfer, pledge, or other disposition in violation
of the provisions of this section 9 shall be null and void and any Allocated AIG Stock which is
hedged in any manner shall immediately be forfeited.

7 

10.  
       
       Administration of the Plan   

The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee. Actions of the Committee may be
taken by the vote of a majority of its members. The Committee may allocate among its members and
delegate to any person who is not a member of the Committee any of its administrative
responsibilities.

The Compensation Committee shall have power to interpret the Plan, to make regulations for
carrying out its purpose and to make all other determinations in connection with its
administration, all of which shall, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee, be
final, binding and conclusive. The Compensation Committee shall have the power to amend the Plan
in any manner and at any time, including in a manner adverse to the rights of the Participants;
 provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee may not accelerate or
postpone the delivery of shares of AIG Stock or the delivery of any cash, securities or other
property under the Plan to occur at a time other than the time otherwise provided for in the Plan.
In addition, the Compensation Committee shall have the power to increase a Participant s amount of
Initial Allocated AIG Stock.

No member of the Board of Directors of AIG or the Compensation Committee or any employee of
the Company (each such person a   Covered Person  ) shall have any liability to any person (including
any Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good
faith with respect to the Plan or any Participant s participation in it. Each Covered Person shall
be indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense
(including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in
connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may
be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted
to be taken under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person,
with AIG s approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any
judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person,  provided  that AIG
shall have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding
and, once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, AIG shall have sole control over
such defense with counsel of AIG s choice. To the extent any taxable expense reimbursement under
this paragraph is subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount thereof eligible in one taxable year
shall not affect the amount eligible in any other taxable year; (y) in no event shall any expenses
be reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the
Covered Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event shall any right to reimbursement be
subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. The foregoing right indemnification shall
not be available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a
final judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal,
determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification
claim resulted from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct. The foregoing
right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which
Covered Persons may be entitled under AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a
matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such persons or hold
them harmless.

8 

If the Compensation Committee shall at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter
defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any
units, contingent allocation of any Allocated AIG Stock, the delivery of shares of AIG Stock or the
delivery of any cash, securities or other property under the Plan, or the taking of any other
action thereunder (each such action, a  plan action ), then such plan action shall not be taken, in
whole or in part, unless and until such consent shall have been effected or obtained to the full
satisfaction of the Compensation Committee;  provided  that if such consent has not been so effected
or obtained as of the latest date provided by the Plan for the delivery of shares of AIG Stock or
the delivery of any cash, securities or other property under the Plan and further delay of delivery
is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such amounts will be
forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning or vesting. The Compensation Committee
may direct that any certificate evidencing AIG Stock delivered pursuant to the Plan shall bear a
legend setting forth such restrictions on transferability as the Compensation Committee may
determine to be necessary or desirable, and may advise the transfer agent to place a stop transfer
order against any legended shares. The term  consent  as used in this paragraph includes (A) any
and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange
or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction outside the
United States, (B) any other matter, which the Compensation Committee may deem necessary or
desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain
an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (C)
any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any
governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (D) any
and all consents required by the Compensation Committee. Nothing herein shall require AIG to list,
register or qualify the shares of AIG Stock on any securities exchange.

The Compensation Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made
by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, benefits under the Plan
(whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the Compensation Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform
and selective determinations as to the persons to become Participants.

11.  
       
       Determination of Employment   

Nothing contained in the Plan or in any participation granted pursuant to the Plan shall
confer on any Participant any right to be continued in the employ of the Employer or to be included
in any future plans of a similar nature.

The Compensation Committee shall have the right to determine itself with respect to any
Participant the commencement date of such Participant s employment with the Employer solely for
purposes of the Plan, separate and apart from any such determination as may be made by AIG, its
subsidiaries or affiliates with respect to the individual s employment.

9 

12.  
       
       Governing Law; Waiver of Suit; Confidentiality   

Any dispute, controversy or claim between AIG and a Participant, arising out of or relating to
or concerning the Plan or any allocation, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New York City
before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the
  NYSE  ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is not
arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the   AAA  ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by a
Participant must first be submitted to the Compensation Committee in accordance with claims
procedures determined by the Compensation Committee. This Paragraph is subject to the other
provisions of section 12 below.

AIG and each Participant hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of a state or
federal court of appropriate jurisdiction located in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York
over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any
allocation that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to the foregoing paragraph. AIG
and each Participant acknowledge that the forum designated by this section has a reasonable
relation to the Plan and to such Participant s relationship with AIG.

AIG and each Participant waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any
objection which AIG and such Participant now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to
the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any court referred to in this
section. AIG and each Participant undertake not to commence any action, suit or proceeding arising
out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any allocation in any forum other than a forum
described in this section.

Each Participant irrevocably appoints the Secretary of AIG at 70 Pine Street, New York, New
York 10270, U.S.A. as his or her agent for service of process in connection with any action, suit
or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any allocation that is not
otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to the first paragraph of this section 12. The
Secretary shall promptly advise the Participant of any such service of process.

Each Participant recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by the Compensation
Committee to receive an allocation he/she has no right to any benefits under the Plan.
Accordingly, in consideration of each Participant s receipt of an allocation, he/she expressly
waives any right to contest the amount of such allocation, the terms of such allocation, any
determination, action or omission made by the Compensation Committee, AIG or the board of directors
of AIG, or any amendment to the Plan.

Each Participant must keep confidential any information concerning any allocation made under
the Plan and any dispute, controversy or claim relating to the Plan, except that a Participant may
disclose information concerning a dispute or claim to the court that is considering such dispute or
to such Participant s legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such
information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the dispute).

10 

</EX-10.50>

<EX-10.51>
 6
 y74794exv10w51.htm
 EX-10.51: 2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN FOR PARTNERS

EX-10.51 

Exhibit 10(51)

American International Group, Inc.  

2005/2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan    

(   Partners   )  

(Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008)   

1.    Purpose and Structure  

The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the
  Compensation Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc. (  AIG  ) has determined that certain
key employees of AIG and its subsidiaries (together, the   Employer  ) contribute substantially to
the growth of the value of the assets and income of AIG. AIG has created this AIG 2005/2006
Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan to reward these individuals (the   Participants  )
and to provide incentives for their continued contribution to the growth of AIG.

The AIG 2005/2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan (the   Plan  ) is composed of
three plan documents, one for Participants in the  Senior Partner  category, one for Participants
in the  Partner  category and one for Participants in the  Associate  category. These documents
describe features that differ among these categories of Participants but together constitute one
Plan. This is the Plan document for participants in the  Partner  category.

2.    Participation and Units  

The Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a list of the Participants
in the Plan (from the employees of the Employer) and express an amount of participation in the Plan
in  units  next to each name that shall indicate the level of participation of the Participant.
Categories of participation shall be divided, based on the number of allocated units, into
Associate, Partner or Senior Partner.

Participants granted more than 599 participation units under the Plan but less than 1000
participation units under the Plan are referred to as  Partners .

All participation units under the Plan shall be deemed to be granted effective January 1, 2005
(the   Grant Date  ), regardless of when an individual becomes a Participant. The term of the Plan
shall commence January 1, 2005 and shall continue to December 31, 2006.

3.    Initial Allocated AIG Stock and EPS Threshold  

AIG shall cause an account to be kept in the name of each Participant that shall reflect the
shares of common stock of AIG, par value $2.50 per share (the   AIG Stock  ), if any, contingently
allocated to each Participant under the Plan. If the EPS Growth Threshold (as defined below) is
satisfied, each Partner Participant employed

by the Employer at December 31, 2006 shall have contingently allocated to such Participant s
account 12 shares of AIG Stock for each participation unit granted to such Participant (such
Participant s   Initial Allocated AIG Stock  ).

The   EPS Growth Threshold   shall be satisfied if the cumulative earnings per share of AIG
Stock during the two year term of the Plan exceeds cumulative earnings per share of AIG Stock
during the two year period commencing January 1, 2003 and ending December 31, 2004. For this
purpose earnings per share shall be determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion
in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (1) without giving effect to
realized capital gains or losses, net of tax; the cumulative affect of changes in accounting
treatment during the relevant periods, net of tax; FAS 133 gains and losses, excluding realized
capital gains or losses, net of tax; or extraordinary items related to acquisition, restructuring
and related charges, net of tax, (2) with adjustments for any stock split or stock dividend during
the relevant period, (3) with adjustments in the case of cash acquisitions in excess of $5 billion
to equalize the effect of acquisitions for cash and acquisitions for AIG Stock, (4) giving effect
to any restatement in earnings per share for the relevant period and (5) with such other
adjustments as the Compensation Committee may make to provide consistency between the two year term
of the Plan and the two year period commencing January 1, 2003 and ending December 31, 2004. For
the avoidance of doubt, the preceding adjustments may be made by the Compensation Committee in its
sole discretion.

4.    Payouts of Initial Allocated AIG Stock  

Subject to the following terms and conditions, each Partner Participant shall receive:

A. 
       
     promptly after May 1, 2009 (but no later than the end of 2009) providing that
such Participant is employed by the Employer at such time, fifty percent (50%) of such
Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock (less any withholding taxes required
thereon); and 

B. 
       
     promptly after May 1, 2010 (but no later than the end of 2010) providing that
such Participant is employed by the Employer at such time, fifty percent (50%) of such
Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock (less any withholding taxes required
thereon). 

5.    Payouts of Incremental Amount  

The amounts described in this section shall be contingently allocated to the account of each
Partner Participant in accordance with the rules of the Plan, regardless of any payouts received by
such Participant under section 4.

A. 
       
     If any Partner Participant is employed with the Employer as of March 1, 2012,
an additional amount of AIG Stock equal to thirty-five percent (35%) of such
Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock shall be paid to such Participant promptly
thereafter (but no later than the end of 2012) (such Participant s   Incremental
Amount   and, together 

2 

with such Participant s Initial Allocated AIG Stock, such Participant s   Allocated
AIG Stock  ). 

B. 
       
     Notwithstanding the conditions of section 5 A, if a Partner Participant
terminates employment with the Employer by means of retirement after reaching age 65
(   Retires   ), dies, or becomes subject to Disability, such Participant shall be
entitled in accordance with section 7 to such portion of the Incremental Amount
contingently allocated under this section as follows: 

(1) 
       
     25% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
within 6 months from the Grant Date; 

(2) 
       
     50% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
on or after 6 months but within 12 months from the Grant Date; 

(3) 
       
     75% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
on or after 12 months but within 18 months from the Grant Date; and 

(4) 
       
     100% of such amount if death, Disability or Retirement occurs
on or after 18 months from the Grant Date. 

C. 
       
     If a Partner Participant retires or is terminated with the consent of the
Compensation Committee prior to age 65 and satisfies the covenants, agreements and
conditions as provided by section 6 A, such Participant may be entitled in accordance
with section 7 to such portion of the Incremental Amount contingently allocated to the
Participant s account under this section, the numerator of which shall be the number
of years from the Grant Date to the date of such retirement or termination, and the
denominator of which shall be eight (8). If the retirement or termination with
consent of the Compensation Committee occurs within the first 6 months of a calendar
year no credit for any part of the year shall be provided in calculating the numerator
of the fraction. If such event occurs during the last six months of a calendar year,
a full year of service shall be included in the numerator of the fraction. 

6.    Retirement or Termination with Consent of Compensation Committee  

A. 
       
     Notwithstanding the limitations provided in section 7 A that deprive a
Participant who retires, terminates, is terminated or otherwise departs prior to age
65 of any rights to the such Participant s Allocated AIG Stock, but subject to section
6 B, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, reinstate such contingent
rights to the Allocated AIG Stock as provided in B (1) through (3) herein, if and only
if, such Participant complies with such covenants, agreements and conditions as the
Compensation Committee may, in 

3 

its sole discretion, impose from the time of early termination of employment to
age 65. 

B. 
       
     Any Participant who receives the consent of the Compensation Committee to
reinstate the contingent rights to such Participant s Allocated AIG Stock under this
section shall be entitled to the following amounts after appropriate determination
that the required covenants, agreements and conditions of subsection A have been
complied with: 

(1) 
       
     one hundred percent (100%) of the Participant s Initial
Allocated AIG Stock or, if such retirement occurs before the end of the two
year term of the Plan, such portion of the Participant s Initial Allocated AIG
Stock as determined under section 8; 

(2) 
       
     plus such portion of the Incremental Amount as described in
section 5  

(3) 
       
     less any Allocated AIG Stock previously distributed under the
provisions of section 4; 

provided ,  however , that any Allocated AIG Stock reinstated pursuant to this section
6 will not be paid until the payment times set forth in sections 4 and 5.

7.    General Rules  

Each Participant s Allocated AIG Stock shall not vest and shall continue to be governed by and
contingently reserved for the Participant in accordance with the Plan s terms and conditions until
the payment times set forth in sections 4 and 5 above.

A. 
       
     The Participant will forfeit any and all rights to or interest in any
undistributed Allocated AIG Stock contingently allocated to the Participant s account
in the event his/her employment with the Employer terminates or is terminated before
the applicable payment time set forth in section 4 or section 5 for any reason
including, but not limited to, redundancy or dismissal prior to such Retirement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant (1) dies, (2) becomes subject to
Disability or (3) Retires, in each case while a full time employee with the Employer,
the Participant or his/her estate, heir or successors, as the case may be, shall
become entitled to receive any Allocated AIG Stock contingently allocated to the
Participant s account as provided hereunder, no later than 90 days after the date of
such event (in the case of death or Disability) or no later than the end of the
calendar year in which such event occurs (in the case of Retirement), as applicable.
For this purpose,   Disability   means a period of medically determined physical or
mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period of not less
than 36 

4 

months during which a Participant qualifies for income replacement benefits under
the Employer s long-term disability plan for at least six months, or, if a
Participant does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during
which the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determined physical or mental impairment which can be
expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of
not less than 36 months. 

B. 
       
     The Participant will have no rights as a stockholder of AIG, and therefore
will not be entitled to cash dividends paid on the Allocated AIG Stock nor to vote
such stock until the AIG Stock is delivered to such individual by AIG under the terms
described in the Plan. Unless the Compensation Committee makes an adjustment pursuant
to the following sentence, all stock dividends or splits with respect to any Allocated
AIG Stock occurring after December 31, 2006 shall accrue and accumulate and be paid in
kind at the same time as the Allocated AIG Stock to which such stock dividend or split
relates. The Compensation Committee shall have the authority (but shall not be
required) to adjust equitably the shares of AIG Stock to be allocated for each
participation unit pursuant to section 3 and the shares of Allocated AIG Stock in such
manner as it deems appropriate to preserve the benefits or potential benefits intended
to be made available to Participants (including, without limitation, by payment of
cash or by substituting or adding other securities or property) for any change in the
AIG Stock resulting from a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination
or exchange of shares of AIG Stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering,
separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate
structure or shares of AIG;  provided  that no such adjustment shall be made if or to
the extent that it would cause any payment under this Plan to fail to comply with
Section 409A. After any adjustment made pursuant to this section, the number of
shares of each Participant s Allocated AIG Stock shall be rounded down to the nearest
whole number. For the avoidance of doubt, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole
discretion, decline to adjust the terms of any outstanding Allocated AIG Stock if it
determines that such adjustment would violate applicable law or result in adverse tax
consequences to the Participant or to the Employer. 

C. 
       
     For the avoidance of doubt, any Participant elections with respect to the
payment of Allocated AIG Stock made prior to the amendment of the Plan on March 11,
2008 will be disregarded for all purposes, and such Allocated AIG Stock will be paid
only at the times provided for in the Plan. 

D. 
       
     The Compensation Committee in its sole discretion reserves the right of final
determination of whether to distribute to the Participant either the shares of AIG
Stock or an amount of cash equivalent in value to the fair market value of such shares
of AIG Stock. 

5 

E. 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision existing within the Plan, a Participant
must have rendered service to one or more Employers for a period of at least four (4)
years before being considered eligible for any distributions under the Plan, subject
to any longer period of service required by any other provision of the Plan for any
payouts under any provision of the Plan. 

F. 
       
     The provisions of the Plan provide no right or eligibility to a Participant
to any other payouts from AIG, its subsidiaries or affiliates under any other
alternative plans, schemes, arrangements or contracts AIG may have with any employees
or group of employees of AIG, its subsidiaries or affiliates. 

G. 
       
     Shares of AIG Stock delivered to a Participant under the Plan shall be
treated as an  Award  made pursuant to the AIG 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
from time to time (the   SIP  ), and, except as modified by this Plan, all terms of the
SIP shall apply to this Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision existing within the
Plan, the amount of Allocated AIG Stock contingently allocated to any Participant s
account shall not exceed any per person per period award limit under the SIP. 

H. 
       
     Only whole shares of AIG Stock shall be delivered under the Plan. Fractional
shares shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share and any such fractional shares
shall be forfeited. 

I. 
       
     Grants and deliveries under the Plan shall constitute a special discretionary
incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be required to be taken into
account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the
purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension,
retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of
the Employer or under any agreement with the Participant, unless the Employer
specifically provides otherwise. 

J. 
       
     The Plan is intended to provide payments that are  deferred compensation 
subject to Section 409A, and the Plan is intended to, and will be interpreted,
administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A. For this purpose,   Section
409A   means Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
  Code  ), including any amendments or successor provisions to that section, and any
regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they may be
from time to time amended or interpreted through further administrative guidance. The
Compensation Committee will have full authority to give effect to the intent of this
section 7 J. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (1) references to the
termination of a Participant s employment will mean the Participant s separation from
service with the Employer within the meaning of Section 409A; (2) any payment to be
made under the Plan in connection with termination of a Participant s 

6 

employment (and any other payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the
limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code will be delayed until six months
after termination of the Participant s employment (or earlier death) in accordance
with the requirements of Section 409A; (3) to the extent necessary to comply with
the foregoing, any securities or other property that the Employer may deliver in
lieu of AIG Stock or cash will not have the effect of deferring delivery or payment
beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with respect to the
AIG Stock that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose in accordance with section 7 J (5)); (4) each payment
under the Plan will be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A;
and (5) the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
a payment under the Plan or permit a Participant to elect to defer a payment under
the Plan, in each case in a manner that conforms to the requirements of Section
409A(a)(4) of the Code. 

8.    Death, Disability or Retirement In The First Two Years Of Plan  

If a Participant dies, becomes subject to Disability, or retires with the consent of the
Compensation Committee as provided in section 6 during the two year term of the Plan (except that
Retirement does not need the consent of the Compensation Committee):

A. 
       
     within the first six months after the Grant Date, the Participant will
receive following determination one fourth of the appropriate Initial Allocated AIG
Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

B. 
       
     on or after six months but within one year of the Grant Date, the Participant
will receive following determination one half of the appropriate Initial Allocated AIG
Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

C. 
       
     on or after twelve months but within eighteen months of the Grant Date, the
Participant will receive following determination three fourths of the appropriate
Initial Allocated AIG Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

D. 
       
     on or after eighteen months from the Grant Date, the Participant will receive
following determination one hundred percent (100%) of the appropriate Initial
Allocated AIG Stock at the applicable time otherwise set forth in the Plan; 

in each case which would have been allocated to his or her account at the end of the second year of
the Plan and in each case excluding the Incremental Amount (which portion available for payment
shall be determined under section 5 B or C).

7 

9.    Non-Assignable  

Any rights or expectancy thereof which a Participant may receive pursuant to the Plan shall
not be assignable, transferable, pledged, hedged or in any manner alienated, whether by operation
of law or otherwise, except as a result of death or incapacity where such rights are passed
pursuant to a will or by operation of law. The Compensation Committee may in its sole discretion
acknowledge the written direction by a Participant to transfer his/her contingent rights under the
Plan to a revocable grantor trust in such form and on such conditions as such officer may require
in his or her sole discretion. Any assignment, transfer, pledge, or other disposition in violation
of the provisions of this section 9 shall be null and void and any Allocated AIG Stock which is
hedged in any manner shall immediately be forfeited.

10.    Administration of the Plan  

The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee. Actions of the Committee may be
taken by the vote of a majority of its members. The Committee may allocate among its members and
delegate to any person who is not a member of the Committee any of its administrative
responsibilities.

The Compensation Committee shall have power to interpret the Plan, to make regulations for
carrying out its purpose and to make all other determinations in connection with its
administration, all of which shall, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee, be
final, binding and conclusive. The Compensation Committee shall have the power to amend the Plan
in any manner and at any time, including in a manner adverse to the rights of the Participants;
 provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee may not accelerate or
postpone the delivery of shares of AIG Stock or the delivery of any cash, securities or other
property under the Plan to occur at a time other than the time otherwise provided for in the Plan.
In addition, the Compensation Committee shall have the power to increase a Participant s amount of
Initial Allocated AIG Stock.

No member of the Board of Directors of AIG or the Compensation Committee or any employee of
the Company (each such person a   Covered Person  ) shall have any liability to any person (including
any Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good
faith with respect to the Plan or any Participant s participation in it. Each Covered Person shall
be indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense
(including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in
connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may
be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted
to be taken under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person,
with AIG s approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any
judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person,  provided  that AIG
shall have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding
and, once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, AIG shall have sole control over
such defense

8 

with counsel of AIG s choice. To the extent any taxable expense reimbursement under this
paragraph is subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount thereof eligible in one taxable year shall not
affect the amount eligible in any other taxable year; (y) in no event shall any expenses be
reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the Covered
Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event shall any right to reimbursement be subject to
liquidation or exchange for another benefit. The foregoing right indemnification shall not be
available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final
judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines
that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted
from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct. The foregoing right of
indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered
Persons may be entitled under AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of
law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such persons or hold them
harmless.

If the Compensation Committee shall at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter
defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any
units, contingent allocation of any Allocated AIG Stock, the delivery of shares of AIG Stock or the
delivery of any cash, securities or other property under the Plan, or the taking of any other
action thereunder (each such action, a  plan action ), then such plan action shall not be taken, in
whole or in part, unless and until such consent shall have been effected or obtained to the full
satisfaction of the Compensation Committee;  provided  that if such consent has not been so effected
or obtained as of the latest date provided by the Plan for the delivery of shares of AIG Stock or
the delivery of any cash, securities or other property under the Plan and further delay of delivery
is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such amounts will be
forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning or vesting. The Compensation Committee
may direct that any certificate evidencing AIG Stock delivered pursuant to the Plan shall bear a
legend setting forth such restrictions on transferability as the Compensation Committee may
determine to be necessary or desirable, and may advise the transfer agent to place a stop transfer
order against any legended shares. The term  consent  as used in this paragraph includes (A) any
and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange
or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction outside the
United States, (B) any other matter, which the Compensation Committee may deem necessary or
desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain
an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made,
(C) any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any
governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (D) any
and all consents required by the Compensation Committee. Nothing herein shall require AIG to list,
register or qualify the shares of AIG Stock on any securities exchange.

The Compensation Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made
by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, benefits under the Plan
(whether or not such persons are

9 

similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Compensation
Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations
as to the persons to become Participants.

11.    Determination of Employment  

Nothing contained in the Plan or in any participation granted pursuant to the Plan shall
confer on any Participant any right to be continued in the employ of the Employer or to be included
in any future plans of a similar nature.

The Compensation Committee shall have the right to determine itself with respect to any
Participant the commencement date of such Participant s employment with the Employer solely for
purposes of the Plan, separate and apart from any such determination as may be made by AIG, its
subsidiaries or affiliates with respect to the individual s employment.

12.    Governing Law; Waiver of Suit; Confidentiality  

Any dispute, controversy or claim between AIG and a Participant, arising out of or relating to
or concerning the Plan or any allocation, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New York City
before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the
  NYSE  ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is not
arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the   AAA  ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by a
Participant must first be submitted to the Compensation Committee in accordance with claims
procedures determined by the Compensation Committee. This Paragraph is subject to the other
provisions of section 12 below.

AIG and each Participant hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of a state or
federal court of appropriate jurisdiction located in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York
over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any
allocation that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to the foregoing paragraph. AIG
and each Participant acknowledge that the forum designated by this section has a reasonable
relation to the Plan and to such Participant s relationship with AIG.

AIG and each Participant waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any
objection which AIG and such Participant now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to
the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any court referred to in this
section. AIG and each Participant undertake not to commence any action, suit or proceeding arising
out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any allocation in any forum other than a forum
described in this section.

Each Participant irrevocably appoints the Secretary of AIG at 70 Pine Street, New York,
New York 10270, U.S.A. as his or her agent for service of process in connection with any action,
suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any allocation that is
not otherwise arbitrated or resolved

10 

according to the first paragraph of this section 12. The Secretary shall promptly advise the
Participant of any such service of process.

Each Participant recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by the Compensation
Committee to receive an allocation he/she has no right to any benefits under the Plan.
Accordingly, in consideration of each Participant s receipt of an allocation, he/she expressly
waives any right to contest the amount of such allocation, the terms of such allocation, any
determination, action or omission made by the Compensation Committee, AIG or the board of directors
of AIG, or any amendment to the Plan.

Each Participant must keep confidential any information concerning any allocation made under
the Plan and any dispute, controversy or claim relating to the Plan, except that a Participant may
disclose information concerning a dispute or claim to the court that is considering such dispute or
to such Participant s legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such
information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the dispute).

11 

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.52>
 7
 y74794exv10w52.htm
 EX-10.52: 2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.52 

Exhibit 10(52)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
2005/2006 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROFIT PARTICIPATION PLAN 
RSU AWARD AGREEMENT 

This award agreement (this    Award Agreement   ) sets forth the terms and conditions of an award
(this    Award   ) of restricted stock units (   RSUs   ) awarded to you pursuant to the American
International Group, Inc. 2005/2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan (the    DCPPP   )
and issued to you under the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock
Incentive Plan (the    SIP   ).

1. The SIP.  This Award is made pursuant to the SIP, the terms of which are incorporated in
this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not defined in this
Award Agreement, or in the attached Glossary of Terms, have the meanings as used or defined in the
SIP.

2. Award.  The number of RSUs subject to this Award is set forth at the end of this Award
Agreement. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of AIG to deliver (or cause to
be delivered) to you, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement, one share of Common Stock (the
   Share    or the    Shares    as the context requires) (or cash equal to the Fair Market Value thereof)
on the Scheduled Vesting Date as provided herein. Until such delivery, you have only the rights of
a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder, of AIG.  THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL
TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE DCPPP, THE SIP AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 15 .

3. Vesting and Payout. 

(a)   Vesting  . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4 and 6, you shall
become vested in the RSUs on   May 1, 2009 / May 1, 2010 / March 1, 2012   (the    Scheduled Vesting
Date   ). Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 6, if your
employment terminates for any reason prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, your rights in respect of
all of your unvested RSUs shall be forfeited and terminate, and no Shares (or cash) shall be paid
in respect of such RSUs.

(b)   Payout  . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4, 6, 8 and 9, the
Shares underlying the vested RSUs shall be paid promptly after the Scheduled Vesting Date, but no
later than the end of the calendar year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date falls. The Company
may, at its option and subject to the DCPPP and the SIP, deliver cash in lieu of all or any portion
of the Shares otherwise payable on the Scheduled Vesting Date. Such cash payment shall equal the
product of the number of Shares to be delivered on the Scheduled Vesting Date and the Fair Market
Value of one Share of Common Stock on the Scheduled Vesting Date. You shall be deemed the
beneficial owner of the Shares at the close of business on the Scheduled Vesting Date and shall be
entitled to any dividend or distribution that has not already been made with respect to such Shares
if the record date for such dividend or distribution is after the close of business on the
Scheduled Vesting Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Scheduled Vesting Date occurs at

a time you are considered by AIG to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section
162(m) of the Code, then, unless the Committee determines otherwise, payout of the Shares (or cash)
may be deferred by the Company under the circumstances described in Section 409A until the earliest
date that the Company reasonably anticipates that the deduction or payment will not be limited or
eliminated.

(c)   Death  . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die prior to
the Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided your rights in respect of your RSUs have not yet
terminated, the Shares (or cash in lieu of all or any part thereof) corresponding to your
outstanding RSUs shall be paid to the representative of your estate promptly after your death (but
no later than 90 days after your death).

(d)   Delay of Payment  . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer payment
of the RSUs or permit you to elect to defer payment of the RSUs, in each case in a manner that
conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code.

4. Termination of RSUs; Non-Payment of Shares. 

(a)   Termination on Separation from Service.   Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and
except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c) and 6, your rights in respect of your outstanding RSUs shall
immediately terminate, and no Shares (or cash) shall be paid in respect of such unvested RSUs, if
at any time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date your employment with the Company terminates for any
reason, or you are otherwise no longer actively employed by the Company.

(b)   Termination on Other Events.   Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as
provided in Paragraph 6, your rights in respect of all of your RSUs (whether or not vested) shall
immediately terminate, and no Shares (or cash) shall be paid in respect of such RSUs, if at any
time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under this Award Agreement, the DCPPP or the SIP
resolved in any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 15;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with
the Company or (B) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any
relationship between the Company and any such Client or (C) Solicit any person who is an
employee of the Company to resign from the Company or to apply for or accept employment with
any Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) you fail to certify to AIG, in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date that you have complied, or the Committee
determines that you have failed as of the Scheduled Vesting Date to comply, with all of the
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement. By accepting the delivery of Shares (or cash)
under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified at such time
that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.

(c)   Termination on Failure to Certify.   Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the
Scheduled Vesting Date in respect of any of your outstanding RSUs occurs, and Shares (or cash) with
respect to such outstanding RSUs would be payable under the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement, except that you have not complied with the conditions or your obligations under
Paragraph 4(b)(iv), all of your rights with respect to your outstanding RSUs shall terminate no
later than the Scheduled Vesting Date for such Shares.

5. Repayment.  If, following the delivery of Shares (or cash), the Committee determines that
all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied,
the Company shall be entitled to receive, and you shall be obligated to pay the Company immediately
upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of the Shares (determined as of the Scheduled Vesting
Date) and the amount of cash (to the extent that any cash was delivered in lieu of Shares)
delivered with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date, without reduction for any Shares (or cash)
applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such Shares (or cash).

6. Disability and Retirement. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), if you become subject to Disability or terminate Employment by means of retirement at or
after age 65 (   Retire   ), the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to
your then outstanding unvested RSUs (as a result of which any such then unvested outstanding RSUs
shall vest and the Shares (or cash) corresponding to your outstanding RSUs shall be paid to you
promptly after the date you become subject to Disability or Retire, but no later than 90 days
thereafter (if you become subject to Disability) or the end of the calendar year in which such date
falls (if you Retire), as applicable, but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b) or Paragraph 4(c), your rights in
respect of any outstanding RSUs that become vested solely by reason of Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, and no Shares (or cash) shall be paid in respect of such outstanding RSUs if,
following your becoming subject to Disability or Retiring and prior to the delivery of Shares (or
cash) in respect of such outstanding RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity
ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise or (ii) associate
in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

7. Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the
limitations set forth in Section 9 of the DCPPP shall apply. Any assignment in violation of the
provisions of this Paragraph 7 shall be null and void.

8. Withholding, Consents and Legends. 

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the SIP).

(b) Your rights in respect of your RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as defined in Section 10 of the DCPPP) that
the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable (including, without limitation, your
consenting to deductions from your wages, or

another arrangement satisfactory to the Committee, to reimburse the Company for advances made on
your behalf to satisfy withholding and other tax obligations in connection with this Award);
 provided  that if such Consent has not been so effected or obtained as of the latest date provided
by this Award Agreement for the delivery of Shares (or cash) in respect of any RSUs and further
delay of delivery is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such RSUs
will be forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior vesting.

(c) AIG may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with AIG). AIG may advise the
transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended Shares.

9.    Section 409A   . 

(a) RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement are intended to be  deferred compensation 
subject to Section 409A, this Award Agreement is intended to, and shall be interpreted,
administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the RSUs. The Committee
shall have full authority to give effect to the intent of this Paragraph 9(a). To the extent
necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency
between the provisions of this Award Agreement and the provisions of the DCPPP or the SIP, the
DCPPP or the SIP, as applicable, shall govern.

(b) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph 9(a), references to the termination of your
Employment with respect to the RSUs shall mean your separation from service with the Company within
the meaning of Section 409A.

(c) Any payment to be made under the RSUs in connection with termination of your Employment
(and any other payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section
409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after termination of your Employment
(or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A.

(d) Each payment under the RSUs shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of
Section 409A.

10. No Rights to Continued Employment.  Nothing in this Award Agreement, the DCPPP or the SIP
shall be construed as giving you any right to continued employment by the Company or affect any
right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your employment.

11. Successors and Assigns of AIG.  The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall be
binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, AIG and its successor entities (as defined in
Section 3.6 of the SIP.)

12. Committee Discretion.  Subject to paragraph 13, the Committee shall have full discretion
with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award
Agreement (including, without limitation, whether you have become subject to Disability), and its
determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.

13. Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time and in any manner to amend the
terms and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement and the DCPPP, including in a manner adverse
to your rights;  provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not accelerate or
postpone the payout of Shares (or cash in lieu of all or any part thereof) pursuant to this Award
Agreement to occur at a time other than the time otherwise provided for in this Award Agreement.

14. Adjustment.  Subject to Paragraph 9(a), in the event of a recapitalization, stock split,
stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering,
separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate structure or the
Shares, subsequent to the date of the Date of Grant, the Committee or the Board shall make such
equitable adjustments, designed to protect dilution or enlargement of rights, as it may deem
appropriate, in the number and kind of Shares covered by the RSUs subject to this Award Agreement.
In addition, the Committee shall have the authority (but will not be required) to adjust
outstanding RSUs for any restatements of the Company s financial statements.

15. Arbitration; Choice of Forum. 

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Company and you, arising out of or relating
to or concerning the SIP or this Award Agreement, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New
York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc. (the    NYSE   ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is
not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the    AAA   ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by you must
first be submitted to the Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the
Committee. This Paragraph is subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15(b) and (c) below.

(b)  THE COMPANY AND YOU HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE
OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF
OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE SIP OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR
RESOLVED ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 15(a) OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT.  This includes any suit, action or
proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Company and you
acknowledge that the forum designated by this Paragraph 15(b) has a reasonable relation to the SIP,
this Award Agreement, and to your relationship with the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
nothing herein shall preclude the Company from bringing any action or proceeding in any other court
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Paragraph 15.

(c) The agreement by you and the Company as to forum is independent of the law that may be
applied in the action, and you and the Company agree to such forum even if the forum may under
applicable law choose to apply non-forum law. You and the Company hereby waive, to the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which you or the Company now or hereafter may
have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in
any court referred to in Paragraph 15(b). You and the Company undertake not to commence any
action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning

this Award Agreement in any forum other than a forum described in this Paragraph 15. You and
(subject to the last sentence of Paragraph 15(a)) the Company agree that, to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or
proceeding in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon you and the Company.

(d) You irrevocably appoint the Secretary of AIG as your agent for service of process in
connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the
DCPPP or this Award Agreement which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph
15(a), who shall promptly advise you of any such service of process.

(e) You hereby agree to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning
any grant made under the DCPPP and any dispute, controversy or claim relating to the DCPPP or this
Award Agreement, except that you may disclose information concerning such dispute or claim to the
arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute or to your legal counsel (provided that such
counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or
defense of the dispute).

(f) You recognize and agree that prior to the grant of this Award you have no right to any
benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the receipt of this Award, you expressly
waive any right to contest the amount of this Award, terms of this Award Agreement and the DCPPP,
any determination, action or omission hereunder or under the SIP by the Committee, AIG or the
Board, or any amendment to the DCPPP or this Award Agreement and you expressly waive any claim
related in any way to the Award including any claim based on any promissory estoppel or other
theory in connection with this Award and your employment with the Company.

16. Governing Law. THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. 

17. Headings.  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only
and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. has caused this Award Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By 

Name:

Title: 

By 

Name:

Title: 

Recipient:

Number of RSUs:

Date of Grant:

Scheduled Vesting Date:

Glossary of Terms 

Solely for purposes of this award of RSUs, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below. Capitalized terms not defined in this Glossary of Terms shall have the meanings as used or
defined in the applicable Award Agreement or the SIP.

Cause    means (i) your conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo
contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud,
false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery,
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in
clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) your engaging in any
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) your failure to perform your duties to
the Company; (iv) your violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations
issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities
exchange or association of which AIG or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) your
violation of any Company policy concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or
your material violation of any other Company policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) your
engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or
negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company; or (vii) your
engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Company. The determination as to whether    Cause    has
occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the
authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences under the DCPPP, the SIP or any Award
Agreement of the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting
   Cause  . 

Client    means any client or prospective client of the Company to whom you provided services,
or for whom you transacted business, or whose identity became known to you in connection with your
relationship with or employment by the Company.

Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity, or (ii)
owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity, that, in either
case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Company is engaged. The activities covered
by the previous sentence include, without limitation, all insurance and re-insurance and insurance
and re-insurance-related activities, asset management, financial product activities (including,
without limitation, derivative activities) and financial services in the United States and abroad.

Disability    means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is
expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 36 months during which you
qualify for income replacement benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan for at least
six months, or, if you do not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which you
are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 36 months.

Section 409A      means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including any amendments or
successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance
thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further
administrative guidance.

Solicit    means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 8
 y74794exv10w53.htm
 EX-10.53: SUMMARY OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

EX-10.53 

Exhibit 10(53) 

July 16, 2008 

American International Group, Inc. 
Non-Employee Director Compensation 

The following non-employee director compensation arrangements were effective beginning May 16,
2007 (and amended as of June 15, 2008 with respect to Lead Independent Director additional
compensation):

1. 
       
     Annual cash retainer for all non-employee directors of $75,000, payable in four equal
installments on the first business day of each quarter in advance of service. No attendance
fees will be paid for Board meetings, including executive sessions. Directors may elect to
defer the amount of any retainer into deferred stock units ( DSUs ) under the AIG Amended and
Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the  Plan ). 

2. 
       
     Additional cash retainer and cash meeting fees for non-employee members of standing
committees as follows: 

Retainers will be paid in four equal installments on the first business day of each quarter
in advance of service and meeting fees will be paid on the first business day of each
quarter for prior service. Directors may elect to defer the amount of these retainers and
committee fees into DSUs under the Plan.

3. 
       
     Additional cash retainer for the Lead Independent Director of $40,000, payable in four equal
installments on the first business day of each quarter in advance of service. The
Lead Independent Director may elect to defer the amount of the additional retainer into DSUs
under the Plan. 

4. 
       
     Annual grant of $125,000 in DSUs under the Plan. Annual grants will be made on the date of
the Annual Meeting. 

5. 
       
     The value of the DSUs received as part of the annual grant described above will be determined
based upon the closing sale price of AIG Common Stock on the date of the Annual Meeting. The
value of the DSUs received in connection with the deferral of any retainer or fees described
above will be determined based upon the closing sale price of AIG Common Stock on the date the
retainer or fees would otherwise be due. DSUs 

1  
       
     Meeting fees will also be paid to any non-employee
director who attends the meeting of a committee of which he or she is not
a member so long as attendance is at the invitation of the chairman of
that committee and to any non-employee director who attends a meeting of
AIG s International Advisory Board. 

include dividend equivalent rights that entitle
the director to a quarterly payment, in the form of DSUs, equal to the amount of any regular
quarterly dividend that would have been paid by AIG if shares of Common Stock that underlie
the DSUs had been outstanding. 

6. 
       
     In the event any director retires or otherwise ceases to be a director before the completion
of his or her full annual term of office, the delivery of all shares of Common Stock
underlying DSUs, including with respect to all accrued amounts for any committee fees, will be
paid and/or delivered on the last trading day of the month in which the director ceases to be
a director. 

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.59>
 9
 y74794exv10w59.htm
 EX-10.59: SENIOR PARTNERS PLAN

EX-10.59 

Exhibit 10(59)

American International Group, Inc.  

Senior Partners Plan    
   (Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008)   

The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the
  Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc. (  AIG  ) has determined that certain key
employees of AIG and its subsidiaries (together, the   Employer  ) contribute substantially to the
long-term growth and profitability of AIG. AIG has created this AIG Senior Partners Plan (this
  Plan  ) to reward these individuals and to provide incentives for their continued contribution to
the long-term performance of AIG.

2.  
       
       Performance Periods   

This Plan will operate for successive overlapping three-year periods (each, a   Performance
Period  ). The first Performance Period will be from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006.
The second Performance Period will be from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007. Thereafter,
each Performance Period will be for successive three calendar-year periods until the Plan is
terminated by the Committee.

3.  
       
       SPUs and Participants   

A. Senior Partner Units . Senior Partner Units (  SPUs  ) issued under this Plan will entitle
holders to receive cash distributions from AIG based on the annual growth in AIG s adjusted book
value per share during the Performance Periods to which the SPU relates, subject to the terms and
conditions of this Plan.

B. Participants . The Committee will, from time to time, determine (1) the key employees of
the Employer who will be awarded SPUs under this Plan (the   Participants  ) and (2) the number of
SPUs held by each Participant.

C. Status of Awards and Changes in Awards . A Participant s number of SPUs will remain
constant until the Committee determines to increase or decrease the Participant s SPUs or
terminates his or her status as a Participant. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, an
award of SPUs, or an increase or decrease in the number of a Participant s SPUs, will only affect
the number of SPUs outstanding with respect to Performance Periods that have at least 12 months
remaining in them at the time the Committee makes the award or determination. In addition, unless
determined otherwise by the Committee, an initial award of SPUs to a Participant may only be made
with respect to Performance Periods ending on or after the third anniversary of commencement of the
Participant s employment with the Employer.

D. Maximum Number of SPUs . A total of up to 30,000 SPUs may be outstanding with respect to
each Performance Period.

4.  
       
       Weighted-Average SPU Value and Conditions   

A. Weighted-Average SPU Value . At the end of each Performance Period, the Committee will
determine the dollar amount (the   Weighted-Average SPU Value  ) attributable to each SPU related to
the Performance Period and will communicate the Weighted-Average SPU Value to the Participants.
Subject to the conditions of this Plan, the Weighted-Average SPU Value for a Performance Period
will be equal to (1) two-thirds of the Yearly SPU Value of the final year in the Performance Period
 plus  (b) one-sixth of the Yearly SPU Value of each of the first two years in the Performance
Period.

B. Definitions .

(1)   Yearly SPU Value   means, for each year, (a) the Growth in Adjusted Book Value for
the year  multiplied by  (b) the Funding Percentage for the year  divided by  (c) the maximum
number of SPUs.

(2)   Growth in Adjusted Book Value   means, for each year, the Adjusted Book Value at
the beginning of the year  multiplied by  the Percentage Growth in Adjusted Book Value Per
Share for the year. The determination of Growth in Adjusted Book Value and all its
component parts (including any adjustments made as part of such determination) will be made
by the Committee in its sole discretion in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles.

(3)   Adjusted Book Value   means, for any date, the total AIG shareholders  equity as of
the date  minus  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (or  plus  Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Loss) as of such date (as reported in AIG s Consolidated Statement of
Shareholders  Equity), with such adjustments as the Committee may make in its sole
discretion.

(4)   Percentage Growth in Adjusted Book Value Per Share   means, for any year, the
percentage increase (or decrease) in:

(a) Adjusted Book Value at the end of the year  divided by  the number of shares
of AIG common stock outstanding at the end of the year  over 

(b) Adjusted Book Value at the beginning of the year  divided by  the number of
shares of AIG common stock outstanding at the beginning of the year.

(5)   Funding Percentage   means, for any year, the funding percentage determined by the
Committee from time to time. Initially the Funding Percentage will be 0.85% (until the
Committee establishes a different Funding Percentage).

C. Effect of Decrease in Book Value . If the Yearly SPU Value is a negative number for any
year during a Performance Period, the Weighted-Average SPU Value for the Performance Period will be
calculated as if the Yearly SPU Value

2 

for that year was $0.00  except  that (1) the Weighted-Average
SPU Value for the first Performance Period in which the year occurs will be reduced by the amount
of the negative Yearly SPU Value and (2) if such reduction would result in a Weighted-Average SPU
Value that is a negative number, the excess negative Yearly SPU Value will be carried forward to
reduce the Weighted-Average SPU Value for future Performance Periods (until the negative Yearly SPU
Value has been fully applied).

D. Partners Plan Condition . Notwithstanding Section 4A, the Weighted-Average SPU Value of a
Performance Period will be $0.00 if the conditions are not satisfied for the funding threshold of
the AIG Partners Plan for the period ending with the same year as the Performance Period. The
Committee will, from time to time, designate the AIG Partners Plan and the funding threshold
condition that will apply for this Section 4D.

5.  
       
       Vesting and Payouts of Weighted-Average SPU Value   

A. General . Except for SPUs related to the 2004-2006 and 2005-2007 Performance Periods, the
Weighted-Average SPU Value of each SPU will be paid out to Participants in cash in two equal
installments promptly after the third and fourth anniversaries of the first day of the last year of
the Performance Period to which the SPU relates (each a   Scheduled Payment Date  ), but no later
than the end of the calendar year in which the relevant Scheduled Payment Date falls. The
Weighted-Average SPU Value of each SPU related to the 2004-2006 or 2005-2007 Performance Period
will be paid out to Participants in cash in two equal installments promptly after the fourth and
sixth anniversaries of the first day of the last year of the Performance Period to which the SPU
relates (the Scheduled Payment Dates for these SPUs), but no later than the end of the calendar
year in which the relevant Scheduled Payment Date falls. Except as provided in Sections 5B, 6 and
8A, if a Participant s employment with the Employer is
terminated for any reason, the Participant s rights in respect of any Weighted-Average SPU
Value that would be payable on a future Scheduled Payment Date will be forfeited and terminate.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Scheduled Payment Date occurs at a time when a Participant is
considered by AIG to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  ), then, unless the Committee determines
otherwise, payout of the Weighted-Average SPU Value in respect of such Scheduled Payment Date may
be deferred by the Employer under the circumstances described in Section 409A until the earliest
date that the Employer reasonably anticipates that the deduction or payment will not be limited or
eliminated.

B. Death, Disability or Retirement after Age 65 . If a Participant dies, becomes subject to
Disability or terminates Employment by means of retirement at or after age 65 (  Retires  ), in each
case while actively employed by the Employer, any remaining unpaid Weighted-Average SPU Values for
prior Performance Periods in respect of all SPUs granted to the Participant will be paid promptly
after the date of such event, but no later than 90 days after such event (if the Participant
becomes subject to Disability) or the end of the calendar year in which such event falls (if the
Participant Retires), as applicable. In addition, Weighted-Average SPU Value for any then-current
Performance Periods will be determined and paid in accordance with Section 6B. For this purpose,
  Disability   means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is expected
to result in

3 

death or last for a period of not less than 36 months during which a Participant qualifies for
income replacement benefits under the Employer s long-term disability plan for at least six months,
or, if a Participant does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which the
Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically
determined physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be
expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 36 months.

C. Election to Delay Payment . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
payment of the Weighted-Average SPU Value of SPUs or permit a Participant to elect to defer payment
of the Weighted-Average SPU Value of SPUs, in each case in a manner that conforms to the
requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code . 

6.    Vesting and Payout During a Performance Period  

A. General . Except as provided in Section 6B, if a Participant s employment with the Employer
is terminated for any reason during a Performance Period, all of the Participant s SPUs relating to
the Performance Period will be forfeited and terminate.

B. Death, Disability or Retirement after Age 65. 

(1) If a Participant dies or becomes subject to Disability during a Performance
Period, in each case while actively employed by the Employer, the Participant will be paid
a pro-rated amount (based upon the number of whole or partial months the Participant was
employed during the Performance Period relative to 36 and the determination, in the
Committee s sole discretion, of Growth in Adjusted Book Value through the date of the
Participant s death or becoming subject to Disability) of the Weighted-Average SPU Value
for each SPU relating to the Performance Period ending within 12 months of the
Participant s death or becoming subject to Disability. The payment of such amount will
occur promptly after such event (but no later than 90 days thereafter); or

(2) If the Participant Retires during a Performance Period, while actively employed by
the Employer, the Participant will be paid a pro-rated amount (based upon the number of
whole or partial months the Participant was employed during the Performance Period relative
to 36) of the Weighted-Average SPU Value for each SPU relating to the Performance Period
ending within 12 months of the Participant s Retirement. The payment of such amount will
occur as soon as is practicable in the calendar year immediately following the end of such
Performance Period when performance has been determined (but no later than the end of such
year).

No Weighted-Average SPU Value will be paid with respect to any Performance Period ending more
than 12 months after termination of employment with the Employer.

4 

7.    Dividend-Related Payments  

A. General . Each Participant will be paid a cash dividend-related amount on March 31, June
30, September 30 and December 31 based upon their unpaid Weighted-Average SPU Value. The quarterly
dividend-related payment for each Participant will equal (1) the aggregate unpaid Weighted-Average
SPU Value of the Participant s SPUs at the beginning of the quarter  multiplied by  (2) the total
cash dividends AIG pays on its common stock during the quarter  divided by  (3) the Adjusted Book
Value at the beginning of the quarter.

B. Termination of Employment . If a Participant s employment with the Employer is terminated
for any reason, the Participant s rights to receive any further dividend-related payment will
terminate.

8.    Administration of this Plan  

A. General . This Plan will be administered by the Committee. Actions of the Committee may be
taken by the vote of a majority of its members. The Committee may allocate among its members and
delegate to any person who is not a member of the Committee any of its administrative
responsibilities. The Committee will have power to interpret this Plan, to make regulations for
carrying out its purpose and to make all other determinations in connection with its administration
(including, without limitation, whether a Participant has become subject to Disability), all of
which will, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, be final, binding and conclusive.
Subject to Section 9N, the Committee will have the power to increase or decrease the
Weighted-Average SPU Value of a Participant s SPUs. In addition, the Committee may, in its sole
discretion, reinstate any SPUs, Weighted-Average SPU Values or dividend-related payments that would
otherwise have been terminated and forfeited because of a Participant s termination of employment,
if the Participant complies with any covenants, agreements or conditions that the Committee may
impose;  provided, however , that any such payments will not be paid until the scheduled times set
forth in this Plan.

B. Non-Uniform Determinations . The Committee s determinations under this Plan need not be
uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive,
SPUs under this Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the Committee will be entitled, among other things, to make
non-uniform and selective determinations as to the persons to become Participants.

C. Determination of Employment . The Committee will have the right to determine itself with
respect to any Participant the commencement date of the Participant s employment with the Employer
solely for purposes of this Plan, separate and apart from any determination as may be made by AIG
or its subsidiaries with respect to the individual s employment.

D. Amendments.  The Committee will have the power to amend this Plan in any manner and at any
time, including in a manner adverse to the rights of the Participants;  provided  that,
notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not accelerate or postpone any payment to a
Participant to occur at a time other than the time provided for in this Plan.

5 

E. No Liability . No member of the Board of Directors of AIG or the Committee or any employee
of the Employer (each, a   Covered Person  ) will have any liability to any person (including any
Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith
with respect to this Plan or any Participant s participation in it. Each Covered Person will be
indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense
(including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in
connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may
be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted
to be taken under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person,
with AIG s approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any
judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person,  provided  that AIG will
have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and,
once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, AIG will have sole control over such
defense with counsel of AIG s choice. To the extent any taxable expense reimbursement under this
paragraph is subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount thereof eligible in one taxable year shall not
affect the amount eligible in any other taxable year; (y) in no event shall any expenses be
reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the Covered
Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event shall any right to reimbursement be subject to
liquidation or exchange for another benefit. The foregoing right of indemnification will not be
available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final
judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines
that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted
from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct. The foregoing right of
indemnification will not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered
Persons may be entitled under AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of
law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such persons or hold them
harmless.

F. Adjustments.  The Committee will have the authority (but will not be required) to adjust
equitably the Annual Growth in Adjusted Book Value and all its component parts to preserve the
benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available to Participants for any change in the
AIG common stock resulting from a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination or
exchange of shares of AIG common stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering, separation,
reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of AIG;
 provided  that no such adjustment shall be made if or to the extent that it would cause any payment
under this Plan to fail to comply with Section 409A. In addition, the Committee will have the
authority (but will not be required) to adjust the Weighted-Average SPU Values for previous and
current Performance Periods for any restatements of AIG s financial statements, including adjusting
unpaid Weighted-Average SPU Values to reflect over or under payment of a vested installment with
respect to a prior Performance Period. For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee may, in its sole
discretion, decline to adjust the terms of any outstanding SPU if it determines that such
adjustment would violate applicable law or result in adverse tax consequences to the Participant or
to the Company.

6 

G. Other . In furtherance of AIG s policies, notwithstanding Section 3, if any Participant is
a shareholder in C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. on March 31, 2006, such person will cease to be a
Participant, his or her SPUs will be forfeited and terminate and he or she will have no rights
under this Plan (in each case, unless the Committee determines otherwise).

9.    General Rules  

A. No Funding . AIG will be under no obligation to fund or set aside amounts to pay
obligations under this Plan. Participants will have no rights to the Weighted-Average SPU Value
other than as a general unsecured creditor of AIG.

B. Tax Withholding . As a condition to the payment of any amount under this Plan or in
connection with any other event that gives rise to a federal or other governmental tax withholding
obligation (1) AIG may deduct or withhold (or cause to be deducted or withheld) from any payment to
a Participant whether or not pursuant to this Plan or (2) the Committee will be entitled to require
that the Participant remit cash to AIG (through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case, in
an amount sufficient in the opinion of AIG to satisfy such withholding obligation.

C. No Rights to Other Payments . The provisions of this Plan provide no right or eligibility
to a Participant to any other payouts from AIG or its subsidiaries under any other alternative
plans, schemes, arrangements or contracts AIG may have with any employees or group of employees of
AIG or its subsidiaries.

D. No Effect on Benefits . Grants and payments under this Plan will constitute a special
discretionary incentive payment to the Participants and will not be required to be taken into
account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participants for the purpose of
determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing,
bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of the Employer or under any agreement with
the Participant, unless the Employer specifically provides otherwise.

E. Section 409A .

(1) SPUs are intended to provide payments that are  deferred compensation  subject to
Section 409A, and this Plan is intended to, and will be interpreted, administered and
construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the SPUs. For this purpose,
  Section 409A   means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or successor
provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance
thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through
further administrative guidance. The Committee will have full authority to give effect to
the intent of this Section 9E.

(2) Without limiting the generality of Section 9E(1), (a) references to the
termination of a Participant s employment with respect to SPUs will mean the Participant s
separation from service with the Employer within the meaning of Section 409A, and (b) the
right to dividend-related payments

7 

pursuant to Section 7 will be treated separately from the right to payment of the
Weighted-Average SPU Value of SPUs for all purposes of Section 409A.

(3) Any payment to be made under the SPUs in connection with termination of a
Participant s employment (and any other payment under this Plan) that would be subject to
the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code will be delayed until six months after
termination of the Participant s employment (or earlier death) in accordance with the
requirements of Section 409A.

(4) Each payment under the SPUs will be treated as a separate payment for purposes of
Section 409A.

F. Severability . If any of the provisions of this Plan is finally held to be invalid, illegal
or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision will be deemed modified to the
extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the
remaining provisions will not be affected thereby;  provided  that if any of such provisions is
finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope
determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such
provision enforceable hereunder.

G. Entire Agreement . This Plan contains the entire agreement of the parties with respect to
the subject matter thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements,
communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect
to the subject matter thereof.

H. Waiver of Claims . Each Participant recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by
the Committee to receive a SPU he or she has no right to any benefits under this Plan. Accordingly,
in consideration of the Participant s receipt of any SPU hereunder, he or she expressly waives any
right to contest the amount of any SPU, the terms of this Plan, any determination, action or
omission hereunder by the Committee or AIG or any amendment to this Plan.

I. No Third Party Beneficiaries . Except as expressly provided therein, this Plan will not
confer on any person other than AIG and the Participant any rights or remedies thereunder. The
exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 8E will inure to the benefit of a Covered
Person s estate and beneficiaries and legatees.

J. AIG s Successors and Assigns . The terms of this Plan will be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of AIG and its successors and assigns.

K. Nonassignability . The SPUs, Weighted-Average SPU Values and dividend-related payments will
not be assignable, transferable, pledged, hedged or in any manner alienated, whether by operation
of law or otherwise, except as a result of death or incapacity where such rights are passed
pursuant to a will or by operation of law. The Committee may in its sole discretion acknowledge
the written direction by a Participant to transfer his/her SPUs under this Plan to a revocable

8 

grantor trust in such form and on such conditions as the Committee may require in its sole
discretion. Any assignment, transfer, pledge, or other disposition in violation of the provisions
of this Section 9L will be null and void and any SPUs which are hedged in any manner will
immediately be forfeited.

L. Right to Discharge . Nothing contained in this Plan or in any SPU will confer on any
Participant any right to be continued in the employ of the Employer or to be included in any future
plans of a similar nature.

M. Consent . If the Committee will at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter
defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any
SPUs, determination of the Weighted-Average SPU Value or the payment of any amount under this Plan,
or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action, a   plan action  ), then such plan
action will not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such consent will have been
effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee;  provided  that if such consent has
not been so effected or obtained as of the latest date provided by this Plan for payment of such
amount and further delay is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such
amount will be forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning or vesting.

The term   consent   as used in this paragraph includes (1) any and all listings,
registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or
under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a
jurisdiction outside the United States, (2) any other matter, which the Committee
may deem necessary or desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing,
registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that
any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (3) any and all other
consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any governmental
or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (4)
any and all consents required by the Committee.

N. Subject to Any AIG   Section 162(m)   Plan.  AIG may, in any year, propose a Section 162(m)
compliant performance incentive award plan (the   AIG   Section 162(m)   Plan  ). If an AIG Section
162(m) Plan is proposed and approved by the AIG stockholders in accordance with Section
162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(4), this Plan will function as
a sub-plan under the AIG Section 162(m) Plan, whereby performance compensation amounts payable
under the AIG Section 162(m) Plan can be paid in part by accruing Weighted-Average SPU Values with
respect to a Performance Period. If the AIG Section 162(m) Plan is proposed and not so approved by
the AIG stockholders, the SPUs will terminate and no further Weighted-Average SPU Values will
accrue under this Plan.

O. Adoption . This Plan was originally adopted on November 30, 2005 by the Committee. This
Plan was amended and restated by the Committee on March 15, 2006, further amended by the Committee
on March 11, 2008, and further amended and restated by the Committee on November 11, 2008.

9 

10.    Disputes  

A. Governing Law . This Plan will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.

B. Arbitration . Subject to the provisions of this Section 10, any dispute, controversy or
claim between AIG and a Participant, arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any
SPU, will be finally settled by arbitration in New York City before, and in accordance with the
rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the   NYSE  ) or, if the NYSE declines to
arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration
Association (the   AAA  ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to
arbitration, all claims maintained by a Participant must first be submitted to the Committee in
accordance with claims procedures determined by the Committee.

C. Jurisdiction . AIG and each Participant hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction of a state or federal court of appropriate jurisdiction located in the Borough of
Manhattan, the City of New York over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to
or concerning this Plan or any SPU that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to
Section 10B. AIG and each Participant acknowledge that the forum designated by this section has a
reasonable relation to this Plan and to such Participant s relationship with AIG.

D. Waiver . AIG and each Participant waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law,
any objection which AIG and such Participant now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or
to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any court referred to in Section
10C. AIG and each Participant undertake not to commence any action, suit or proceeding arising out
of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any SPU in any forum other than a forum described in
Section 10C.

E. Service of Process . Each Participant irrevocably appoints the Secretary of AIG at 70 Pine
Street, New York, New York 10270, U.S.A. as his or her agent for service of process in connection
with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any
SPU that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to Section 10A. The Secretary will
promptly advise the Participant of any such service of process.

F. Confidentiality . Each Participant must keep confidential any information concerning any
grant made under this Plan and any dispute, controversy or claim relating to this Plan, except that
a Participant may disclose information concerning a dispute or claim to the court that is
considering such dispute or to such Participant s legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees
not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the
dispute).

10 

11.    Term of Plan  

This Plan will continue until suspended or terminated by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Any termination of this Plan will be done in a manner that the Committee determines complies with
Section 409A.

11 

</EX-10.59>

<EX-10.60>
 10
 y74794exv10w60.htm
 EX-10.60: PARTNERS PLAN

EX-10.60 

Exhibit 10(60)

American International Group, Inc.  

Partners Plan    
   (Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008)   

1.    Purpose  

The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the
" Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc. (  AIG  ) has determined that certain key
employees of AIG and its subsidiaries (together, the   Employer  ) contribute substantially to the
long-term growth and profitability of AIG. AIG has created this AIG Partners Plan (this   Plan  ) to
reward these individuals and to provide incentives for their continued contribution to the
long-term performance of AIG.

2.    Performance Periods  

This Plan will operate for successive overlapping two-year periods (each, a   Performance
Period  ). The first Performance Period will be from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
The second Performance Period will be from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. Thereafter,
each Performance Period will be for successive two calendar-year periods until the Plan is
terminated by the Committee.

3.    Performance RSUs and Participants  

A. Performance RSUs . Performance-based Restricted Stock Units awarded pursuant to this Plan
(  Performance RSUs  ) will provide holders the opportunity to earn shares of Common Stock of AIG
(  Shares  ) based on the growth in AIG s adjusted diluted earnings per share during the Performance
Period to which the Performance RSUs relate.

B. Participants . The Committee will, from time to time, determine (1) the key employees of
the Employer who will be awarded Performance RSUs under this Plan (the   Participants  ), (2) the
number of Performance RSUs awarded to each Participant and (3) the Performance Period to which the
Performance RSUs relate.

C. Status of Performance RSUs . Performance RSUs awarded pursuant to this plan are issued
under the AIG Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or any successor plan, as amended from
time to time (the   SIP  ). Each Performance RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of
AIG to pay (or cause to be paid) one Share at the relevant payment date. Until such payment, a
holder of Performance RSUs will have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor and no rights
as a shareholder of AIG. As set forth in and subject to the relevant Performance RSU Award
Agreement and the SIP, AIG may, at its option, deliver securities or other property in lieu of
Shares otherwise payable under earned Performance RSUs. References in this Plan to Shares include
such securities or other property in lieu thereof.

4.    Performance Targets and Earned RSUs   

A. Performance Targets.  The Committee will, from time to time, determine the   Target  ,
" Threshold   and   Maximum   performance targets for each Performance Period, based on Growth in
Adjusted Diluted EPS over the Performance Period.

B. Earned Performance RSUs . At the end of each Performance Period, the Committee will
determine the number of Performance RSUs earned for the Performance Period. Subject to the
conditions of this Plan and unless determined otherwise by the Committee, the number of Performance
RSUs earned for a Performance Period will be determined as follows:

Growth in Adjusted Diluted EPS for  
       
      Percentage of  

the Performance Period  
       
      Performance RSUs Earned  

Performance less than Threshold

0 
     % 

Performance at least Threshold

25 
     % 

Performance at Target

100 
     % 

Performance at or above Maximum

150 
     % 

The percentage of Performance RSUs earned for performance between Threshold and Target and between
Target and Maximum will be determined on a straight-line basis.

C. Definitions .

(1)   Growth in Adjusted Diluted EPS   means, for any Performance Period, the average of
(i) the percentage increase (or decrease) in Adjusted Diluted EPS for the first year of the
Performance Period  over  the Adjusted Diluted EPS for the year prior to the beginning of the
Performance Period and (ii) the percentage increase (or decrease) in Adjusted Diluted EPS
for the second year of the Performance Period  over  the Adjusted Diluted EPS for the first
year of the Performance Period;  provided  that, if there is a percentage decrease in
Adjusted Diluted EPS for the first year of the Performance Period, then the percentage
increase (or decrease) in the second year will be measured over the year prior to the
beginning of the Performance Period.

(2)   Adjusted Diluted EPS   means, for any year, the diluted earnings per share of AIG
common stock calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (a) without giving effect to (i) realized capital gains or losses,
net of tax, (ii) the cumulative effect of changes in accounting treatment during the
relevant periods, net of tax, (iii) the cumulative effect of material changes in tax laws
during the relevant periods (such materiality to be determined by the Committee by
reference to the changes  effect on AIG s reported actual tax expense), (iv) FAS 133 gains
and losses, excluding realized capital gains or

2 

losses, net of tax or (v) extraordinary
items related to acquisition, restructuring and related charges, net of tax; (b) with
adjustments for any stock split or stock dividend during the relevant period; (c) with
adjustments in the case of cash acquisitions in excess of $5 billion to equalize the effect
of acquisitions for cash and acquisitions for AIG common stock; (d) giving effect to any
restatement in earnings per share for the relevant period; (e) giving effect to one-third of catastrophe losses and (f) with such other adjustments
as the Compensation Committee may make. For the avoidance of doubt, the preceding
adjustments may be made by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion.

5.    Vesting and Payout of Earned Performance RSUs  

A. General . Except for Performance RSUs for the 2006-2007 Performance Period, earned
Performance RSUs will vest and be paid in two equal installments promptly after the third and
fourth anniversaries of the first day of the Performance Period to which the Performance RSUs
relate (each, a   Scheduled Vesting Date  ), but no later than the end of the calendar year in which
the relevant Scheduled Vesting Date falls. Performance RSUs for the 2006-2007 Performance Period
will vest and be paid in two equal installments promptly after January 1, 2010, and January 1, 2012
(the Scheduled Vesting Dates for these Performance RSUs), but no later than the end of the relevant
calendar year. Except as provided in Sections 5B, 6 and 7A, if a Participant s employment with the
Employer is terminated for any reason, the Participant s rights in respect of any Performance RSUs
that would vest on a future Scheduled Vesting Date will be forfeited and terminate.

B. Death, Disability or Retirement after Age 65 . If a Participant dies, becomes subject to
Disability or terminates employment by means of retirement at or after age 65 (  Retires  ), in each
case while actively employed by the Employer, any outstanding earned Performance RSUs will vest and
be paid promptly after the date of such event, but no later than 90 days after such event (in the
case of death or Disability) or the end of the calendar year in which such event falls (in the case
of Retirement), as applicable. For this purpose,   Disability   means a period of medically
determined physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period
of not less than 36 months during which a Participant qualifies for income replacement benefits
under the Employer s long-term disability plan for at least six months, or, if a Participant does
not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which the Participant is unable to
engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined physical or mental
impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous
period of not less than 36 months.

C. Delay of Payment . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer payment of
Performance RSUs or permit a Participant to elect to defer payment of Performance RSUs, in each
case in a manner that conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue
Code (the   Code  ) . 

3 

6.    Vesting During a Performance Period  

A. General . Except as provided in Section 6B, if a Participant s employment with the Employer
is terminated for any reason during a Performance Period, all of the Participant s Performance RSUs
relating to the Performance Period will be forfeited and terminate.

B. Death, Disability or Retirement after Age 65.  If a Participant dies, becomes subject to
Disability or Retires, in each case while actively employed by the Employer, the Participant will be eligible to receive a pro-rated amount (based upon the
number of whole or partial months the Participant was employed during the Performance Period
relative to 24) of the Performance RSUs earned for such Performance Period, as set forth in the
relevant Performance RSU Award Agreement, subject to Section 8E.

7.    Administration of this Plan  

A. General . This Plan will be administered by the Committee. Actions of the Committee may be
taken by the vote of a majority of its members. To the extent set forth in the SIP, the Committee
may allocate among its members and delegate to any person who is not a member of the Committee any
of its responsibilities. The Committee will have power to interpret this Plan, to make regulations
for carrying out its purpose and to make all other determinations in connection with its
administration (including, without limitation, whether a Participant has become subject to
Disability), all of which will, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, be final, binding and
conclusive. Subject to Section 8N, the Committee will have the power to increase or decrease the
number of a Participant s Performance RSUs that are earned for a Performance Period. In addition,
the Committee may, in its sole discretion, reinstate any Performance RSUs that would otherwise have
been terminated and forfeited because of a Participant s termination of employment, if the
Participant complies with any covenants, agreements or conditions that the Committee may impose;
 provided, however , that any such reinstated Performance RSUs will not be paid until the relevant
Scheduled Vesting Dates set forth in Section 5A.

B. Non-Uniform Determinations . The Committee s determinations under this Plan need not be
uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive,
Performance RSUs under this Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee will be entitled, among other things, to
make non-uniform and selective determinations as to the persons to become Participants.

C. Amendments.  The Committee will have the power to amend this Plan in any manner and at any
time, including in a manner adverse to the rights of the Participants;  provided  that,
notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.1(a), 1.3.1(b) and 3.1 of the SIP, the Committee may
not accelerate or postpone the payout of Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or
any part thereof) with respect to Performance RSUs to occur at a time other than the time otherwise
provided for in this Plan or in the relevant Performance RSU Award Agreement.

4 

D. No Liability . No member of the Board of Directors of AIG or the Committee or any employee
of the Employer (each, a   Covered Person  ) will have any liability to any person (including any
Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith
with respect to this Plan or any Participant s participation in it. Each Covered Person will be
indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense
(including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in
connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may
be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted
to be taken under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person,
with AIG s approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any
judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person,  provided  that AIG will
have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and,
once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, AIG will have sole control over such
defense with counsel of AIG s choice. To the extent any taxable expense reimbursement under this
paragraph is subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount thereof eligible in one taxable year shall not
affect the amount eligible in any other taxable year; (y) in no event shall any expenses be
reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the Covered
Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event shall any right to reimbursement be subject to
liquidation or exchange for another benefit. The foregoing right of indemnification will not be
available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final
judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines
that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted
from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct. The foregoing right of
indemnification will not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered
Persons may be entitled under AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of
law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such persons or hold them
harmless.

E. Adjustments.  The Committee will have the authority (but will not be required) to adjust
equitably outstanding and/or earned Performance RSUs to preserve the benefits or potential benefits
intended to be made available to Participants for any change in the AIG common stock resulting from
a recapitalization, combination or exchange of shares of AIG common stock, merger, consolidation,
rights offering, separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate
structure or shares of AIG;  provided  that no such adjustment shall be made if or to the extent that
it would cause any payment under this Plan to fail to comply with Section 409A. In addition, the
Committee will have the authority (but will not be required) to adjust outstanding Performance RSUs
for current Performance Periods and earned Performance RSUs for previous Performance Periods for
any restatements of AIG s financial statements. For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee may, in
its sole discretion, decline to adjust the terms of any outstanding Performance RSU if it
determines that such adjustment would violate applicable law or result in adverse tax consequences
to the Participant or to the Employer.

5 

8.    General Rules  

A. SIP . All terms of the SIP shall apply to Performance RSUs. Notwithstanding any other
provision existing within this Plan, the Performance RSUs awarded pursuant to this Plan will not
exceed any per person per period award limit under the SIP.

B. Only Whole RSUs . Only whole Performance RSUs will be earned by Participants. Fractional
Performance RSUs that would otherwise be earned with respect to a Performance Period will be
rounded down to the nearest whole Performance RSU, and any such fractional Performance RSUs will be
forfeited.

C. No Rights to Other Payments . The provisions of this Plan provide no right or eligibility
to a Participant to any other payouts from AIG or its subsidiaries under any other alternative
plans, schemes, arrangements or contracts AIG may have with any employees or group of employees of
AIG or its subsidiaries.

D. No Effect on Benefits . Grants and payments under this Plan will constitute special
discretionary incentive payments to the Participants and will not be required to be taken into
account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participants for the purpose of
determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing,
bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of the Employer or under any agreement with
a Participant, unless the Employer specifically provides otherwise.

E. Section 409A .

(1) Performance RSUs are intended to provide payments that are  deferred compensation 
subject to Section 409A, and this Plan is intended to, and will be interpreted,
administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the Performance
RSUs. For this purpose,   Section 409A   means Section 409A of the Code, including any
amendments or successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended
or interpreted through further administrative guidance. The Committee will have full
authority to give effect to the intent of this Section 8E.

(2) Without limiting the generality of Section 8E(1), references to the termination of
a Participant s employment with respect to Performance RSUs will mean the Participant s
separation from service with the Employer within the meaning of Section 409A.

(3) Any payment to be made under the Performance RSUs in connection with termination
of a Participant s employment (and any other payment under this Plan) that would be subject
to the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code will be delayed until six months
after termination of the Participant s employment (or earlier death) in accordance with the
requirements of Section 409A.

6 

(4) To the extent necessary to comply with Section 8E(1), any securities or other
property that the Employer may deliver in respect of Performance RSUs will not have the
effect of deferring delivery or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment
would occur with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless
the Committee elects a later date for this purpose in accordance with Section 5C).

(5) Each payment under the Performance RSUs will be treated as a separate payment for
purposes of Section 409A.

F. Severability . If any of the provisions of this Plan is finally held to be invalid, illegal
or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision will be deemed modified to the
extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the
remaining provisions will not be affected thereby;  provided  that if any of such provisions is
finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope
determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such
provision enforceable hereunder.

G. Entire Agreement . This Plan contains the entire agreement of the parties with respect to
the subject matter thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements,
communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral, with respect
to the subject matter thereof.

H. Waiver of Claims . Each Participant recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by
the Committee to receive an award of Performance RSU he or she has no right to any benefits under
this Plan. Accordingly, in consideration of the Participant s receipt of any Performance RSUs
hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right to contest the amount of any Performance RSUs, the
terms of this Plan, any determination, action or omission hereunder by the Committee or AIG or any
amendment to this Plan.

I. No Third Party Beneficiaries . Except as expressly provided therein, this Plan will not
confer on any person other than AIG and the Participant any rights or remedies thereunder. The
exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 7D will inure to the benefit of a Covered
Person s estate and beneficiaries and legatees.

J. AIG s Successors and Assigns . The terms of this Plan will be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of AIG and its successors and assigns.

K. Nonassignability . The Performance RSUs will not be assignable, transferable, pledged,
hedged or in any manner alienated, whether by operation of law or otherwise, except as a result of
death or incapacity where such rights are passed pursuant to a will or by operation of law. Any
assignment, transfer, pledge, or other disposition in violation of the provisions of this
Section 8L will be null and

7 

void and any Performance RSUs that are hedged in any manner will immediately be forfeited.

L. Right to Discharge . Nothing contained in this Plan or in any award of Performance RSUs
will confer on any Participant any right to be continued in the employ of the Employer or to be
included in any future plans of a similar nature.

M. Consent . If the Committee will at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter
defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the awarding, earning
or vesting of any Performance RSUs, the delivery of Shares in respect thereof or the payment of any
amount under this Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action, a   plan
action  ), then such plan action will not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such
consent will have been effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee;  provided 
that if such consent has not been so effected or obtained as of the latest date provided by this
Plan for the delivery of Shares or securities or other property in respect of any Performance RSUs
and further delay of delivery is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A,
such Performance RSUs will be forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning or vesting.

The term   consent   as used in this paragraph includes (1) any and all listings,
registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange
or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a
jurisdiction outside the United States, (2) any other matter, which the Committee
may deem necessary or desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing,
registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that
any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (3) any and all other
consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any
governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory
agency and (4) any and all consents required by the Committee.

N. Subject to Any AIG   Section 162(m)   Plan.  AIG may, in any year, propose a Section 162(m)
compliant performance incentive award plan (the   AIG   Section 162(m)   Plan  ). If an AIG Section
162(m) Plan is proposed and approved by the AIG shareholders in accordance with Section 162(m) of
the Code and Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(4), this Plan will function as a sub-plan
under the AIG Section 162(m) Plan, whereby performance compensation amounts payable under the AIG
Section 162(m) Plan can be paid in part by earning Performance RSUs with respect to a Performance
Period. If the AIG Section 162(m) Plan is proposed and not so approved by the AIG shareholders,
any Performance RSUs awarded to participants in the AIG Section 162(m) Plan will terminate and no
Shares will be delivered with respect thereto.

O. Adoption . This plan was originally adopted on March 15, 2006 by the Committee. This Plan
was amended and restated by the Committee on May 16, 2006, September 5, 2007, March 11, 2008, and
November 11, 2008.

8 

A. Governing Law . This Plan will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.

B. Dispute Resolution and Related Provisions . AIG agrees to the following provisions. By the
acceptance of any award of Performance RSUs, each Participant agrees to accept the provisions of
this Plan, including, without limitations, the following:

(1)  Arbitration . Subject to the provisions of this Section 9, any dispute,
controversy or claim between AIG and a Participant, arising out of or relating to or
concerning this Plan or any Performance RSUs will be finally settled by arbitration in
New York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York
Stock Exchange, Inc. (the   NYSE  ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if
the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the
  AAA  ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to
arbitration, all claims maintained by a Participant must first be submitted to the
Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the Committee.

(2)  Jurisdiction . AIG and each Participant hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction of a state or federal court of appropriate jurisdiction located in the Borough
of Manhattan, the City of New York over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or
relating to or concerning this Plan or any Performance RSUs that are not otherwise
arbitrated or resolved according to Section 9B(1). AIG and each Participant acknowledge
that the forum designated by this section has a reasonable relation to this Plan and to
such Participant s relationship with AIG.

(3)  Waiver . AIG and each Participant waive, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, any objection which AIG and such Participant now or hereafter may have to
personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in
any court referred to in Section 9B(2). AIG and each Participant undertake not to commence
any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any
Performance RSUs in any forum other than a forum described in Section 9B(2).

(4)  Service of Process . Each Participant irrevocably appoints the Secretary of AIG at
70 Pine Street, New York, New York 10270, U.S.A. as his or her agent for service of process
in connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or
concerning this Plan or any Performance RSUs that are not otherwise arbitrated or resolved
according to Section 9B(1). The Secretary will promptly advise the Participant of any such
service of process.

C. Confidentiality . By the acceptance of any award of Performance RSUs, each Participant
agrees to keep confidential any information concerning any grant made under this Plan and any
dispute, controversy or claim relating to this

9 

Plan, except that a Participant may disclose information concerning a dispute or claim to the
court that is considering such dispute or to such Participant s legal counsel (provided that such
counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or
defense of the dispute).

10.    Term of Plan  

This Plan will continue until suspended or terminated by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Any termination of this Plan will be done in a manner that the Committee determines complies with
Section 409A.

10 

</EX-10.60>

<EX-10.62>
 11
 y74794exv10w62.htm
 EX-10.62: AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

EX-10.62 

Exhibit 10(62)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan 

-i- 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan 

ARTICLE I   GENERAL 

1.1 Purpose 

The purpose of the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Stock
Incentive Plan is to attract, retain and motivate officers, directors and key employees of American
International Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, to compensate them for their
contributions to the long-term growth and profits of the Company and to encourage them to acquire a
proprietary interest in the success of the Company.

This 2007 Stock Incentive Plan replaces the American International Group, Inc. Amended and
Restated 1999 Stock Option Plan (as amended to the Effective Date, the   Stock Option Plan  ), the
American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended to
the Effective Date, the   SIP  ) and the American International Group, Inc. Director Stock Plan (as
amended to the Effective Date, the   Director Plan  ) for Awards granted on or after the Effective
Date. Awards may not be granted under any of the Stock Option Plan, the SIP or the Director Plan
beginning on the Effective Date, but this 2007 Stock Incentive Plan will not affect the terms or
conditions of any stock option, restricted stock unit or other award made under the Stock Option
Plan, the SIP or the Director Plan before the Effective Date.

1.2 Definitions of Certain Terms 

For purposes of this 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:

AIG   means American International Group, Inc. or a successor entity contemplated by Section
3.6.

Assurance Agreement   means the Assurance Agreement, by AIG in favor of eligible employees
dated as of June 27, 2005, relating to certain obligations of Starr International Company, Inc. (as
such agreement may be amended, supplemented, extended, modified or replaced from time to time).

Award   means an award made pursuant to the Plan.

Award Agreement   means the written document by which each Award is evidenced, and which may,
but need not be (as determined by the Committee) executed or acknowledged by a Grantee as a
condition to receiving an Award or the benefits under an Award, and which sets forth the terms and
provisions applicable to Awards granted under the Plan to such Grantee.

Board   means the Board of Directors of AIG.

Certificate   means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.

Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor
thereto, and the applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.

Committee   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.1.

Common Stock   means the common stock of AIG, par value $2.50 per share, and any other
securities or property issued in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof pursuant to Section 1.6.4.

Company   means AIG and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Consent   has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.2.

Covered Person   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.3.

Director   means a member of the Board or a member of the board of directors of a consolidated
subsidiary of AIG.

Effective Date   means May 16, 2007.

Employee   means a regular, active employee of the Company.

Employment   means a Grantee s performance of services for the Company, as an Employee, as
determined by the Committee. The terms  employ  and  employed  will have their correlative
meanings.

Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any
successor thereto, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.

Fair Market Value   means, with respect to a share of Common Stock on any day, the fair market
value as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee, unless
determined as otherwise specified herein.

Grantee   means an Employee or Director who receives an Award.

Incentive Stock Option   means an option to purchase shares of Common Stock that is intended
to be designated as an  incentive stock option  within the meaning of Sections 421 and 422 of the
Code, as now constituted or subsequently amended, or pursuant to a successor of the Code, and which
is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the applicable Award Agreement.

Non-Employee Director   means a Director who is a  non-employee director  within the meaning
of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto.

Officer   means an Employee who is an  officer  within the meaning of Rule
16a-1(f) under the Exchange Act.

-2- 

Plan   means this American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive
Plan, as amended from time to time.

Plan Action   will have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.1.

Section 409A   means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or successor
provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in
each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further administrative
guidance.

Securities Act   means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, or any
successor thereto, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.

Treasury Regulations   means the regulations promulgated under the Code by the United States
Internal Revenue Service, as amended.

1.3 Administration 

1.3.1 The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board (as constituted from
time to time, and including any successor committee, the   Committee  ) will administer the Plan. The
members of the Committee will be drawn solely from such members of the Board who are not and have
not been Officers of the Company. The Committee is authorized, subject to the provisions of the
Plan, to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper administration
of the Plan and to make such determinations and interpretations and to take such action in
connection with the Plan and any Award granted thereunder as it deems necessary or advisable. All
determinations and interpretations made by the Committee will be final, binding and conclusive on
all Grantees and on their legal representatives and beneficiaries. The Committee will have the
authority, in its absolute discretion, to determine the persons who will receive Awards, the time
when Awards will be granted, the terms of such Awards and the number of shares of Common Stock, if
any, which will be subject to such Awards. Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, the
Committee reserves the authority, in its absolute discretion (but subject to Section 3.13.1 in the
case of Awards made under the Plan that are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject to
Section 409A, including provisions thereof relating to payment of Awards upon death, disability or
retirement (either before or at normal retirement age)), to amend any outstanding Award Agreement
in any respect, whether or not the rights of the Grantee of such Award are adversely affected (but
subject to Sections 2.3.6 and 2.4.5), including, without limitation, to accelerate the time or
times at which the Award becomes vested, unrestricted or may be exercised, to waive or amend any
restrictions or conditions set forth in such Award Agreement, or to impose new restrictions and
conditions, or to reflect a change in the Grantee s circumstances and (b) to determine whether, to
what extent and under what circumstances and method or methods (i) Awards may be (A) settled in
shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property or (B) canceled, forfeited
or suspended, (ii) shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property, and
other amounts payable with respect to an Award may be deferred either automatically or at the
election of the Grantee thereof or of the Committee and (iii) Awards may be settled by the Company
or any of its designees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may,
in its sole discretion, at any time and from time to

-3- 

time, grant Awards (other than grants to Directors) or administer the Plan, in which case the
Board will have all of the authority and responsibility granted to the Committee herein. If so
determined by the Committee, any Award made to an Officer will be made by the full Board or a
committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of at least two Non-Employee Directors of AIG.

1.3.2 Actions of the Committee may be taken by the vote of a majority of its members. To the
extent not inconsistent with applicable law and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock
Exchange, (a) the Committee may delegate any of its powers under the Plan to a subcommittee of the
Committee or to one of its members, (b) the Committee may allocate among its members any of its
administrative responsibilities and (c) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
the Committee may delegate the determination of Awards (and related administrative
responsibilities) to Employees who are not Officers to one or more officers of AIG designated by
the Committee from time to time.

1.3.3 No Director or Employee (each such person, a   Covered Person  ) will have any liability
to any person (including any Grantee) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any
determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award. Each Covered Person will be
indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability or expense
(including attorneys  fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in
connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may
be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted
to be taken under the Plan or any Award Agreement and against and from any and all amounts paid by
such Covered Person, with AIG s approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in
satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person,
 provided  that AIG will have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action,
suit or proceeding and, once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, AIG will have
sole control over such defense with counsel of AIG s choice. To the extent any taxable expense
reimbursement under this paragraph is subject to Section 409A, (x) the amount thereof eligible in
one taxable year shall not affect the amount eligible in any other taxable year; (y) in no event
shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the taxable year following the taxable year
in which the Covered Person incurred such expenses; and (z) in no event shall any right to
reimbursement be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. The foregoing right of
indemnification will not be available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent
jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to
further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the
indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct.
The foregoing right of indemnification will not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification
to which Covered Persons may be entitled under AIG s Restated Certificate of Incorporation or
By-laws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such
persons or hold them harmless.

1.4 Persons Eligible for Awards 

Awards under the Plan may be made to Employees and Directors.

-4- 

1.5 Types of Awards Under Plan 

Awards may be made under the Plan in the form of any of the following, in each case in respect
of Common Stock: (a) stock options, (b) stock appreciation rights, (c) restricted shares, (d)
restricted stock units, (e) dividend equivalent rights and (f) other equity-based or equity-related
Awards that the Committee determines to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan and the
interests of the Company.

1.6 Shares of Common Stock Available for Awards 

1.6.1  Common Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the other provisions of this Section 1.6,
the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted under the Plan is        . Such shares
of Common Stock may, in the discretion of the Committee, be either authorized but unissued shares
or shares previously issued and reacquired by AIG.

1.6.2  Share Counting.  The number of shares of Common Stock granted under the Plan per year
will be determined as follows: (a) each stock option, stock appreciation right and similar Award
will count as 1 share of Common Stock and (b) each restricted share, restricted stock unit and
similar Award will count as    2.9    shares of Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock issued in
connection with awards that are assumed, converted or substituted as a result of the Company s
acquisition of another company (including by way of merger, combination or similar transaction)
will not count against the number of shares that may be issued under the Plan.

1.6.3  Replacement of Shares.  If any Award is forfeited, expires, terminates or otherwise
lapses, in whole or in part, without the delivery of Common Stock, then the shares of Common Stock
covered by such forfeited, expired, terminated or lapsed award (counted in accordance with Section
1.6.2) will again be available for grant under the Plan. In addition, the following will be added
to the number of shares available for grant under the Plan: (1) the number of shares of Common
Stock underlying awards granted and outstanding under the Stock Option Plan before the Effective
Date that are forfeited, expire, terminate or otherwise lapse on or after the Effective Date, in
whole or in part, without the delivery of Common Stock and (2) the number of shares of Common Stock
underlying awards granted and outstanding under the SIP before the Effective Date that are
forfeited, expire, terminate or otherwise lapse on or after the Effective Date, in whole or in
part, without the delivery of Common Stock (in each case, counted in accordance with Section
1.6.2). For the avoidance of doubt, the following shall not again become available for issuance
under the Plan: (A) any shares of Common Stock withheld in respect of taxes, (B) any shares
tendered or withheld to pay the exercise price of stock options, (C) any shares repurchased by the
Company from the optionee with the proceeds from the exercise of stock options and (D) any shares
subject to stock appreciation rights but not issued on exercise as a result of the operation of
Section 2.4.4.

1.6.4     Adjustments.  The Committee    will    adjust the number of shares of Common Stock
authorized pursuant to Section 1.6.1 and adjust equitably the terms of any outstanding Awards (including, without limitation, the number of shares of Common Stock
covered by each outstanding Award, the type of property to which the Award is subject and the
exercise or strike price of any Award), in such manner as it deems appropriate (including, without
limitation, by payment of cash) to preserve the

-5- 

benefits or potential benefits intended to be made
available to grantees of Awards, for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of
Common Stock resulting from a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination or
exchange of shares of Common Stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering, separation,
reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of AIG;
 provided  that no such adjustment shall be made if or to the extent that it would cause any
outstanding Award to fail to comply with Section 409A. After any adjustment made pursuant to this
Section 1.6.4, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each outstanding Award will be
rounded down to the nearest whole number. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its
sole discretion, decline to adjust the terms of any outstanding Award if it determines that such
adjustment would violate applicable law or result in adverse tax consequences to the Grantee or to
the Company.   

ARTICLE II AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN 

2.1 Agreements Evidencing Awards 

Each Award granted under the Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement that will contain
such provisions and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate. Unless otherwise provided
herein, the Committee may grant Awards in tandem with or, subject to Section 3.13.1, in
substitution for any other Award or Awards granted under the Plan or any award granted under any
other plan of AIG. By accepting an Award pursuant to the Plan, a Grantee thereby agrees that the
Award will be subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award
Agreement.

2.2 No Rights as a Shareholder 

No Grantee (or other person having rights pursuant to an Award) shall have any of the rights
of a shareholder of AIG with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to an Award until the
delivery of such shares. Except as otherwise provided in Section 1.6.4, no adjustments will be made
for dividends, distributions or other rights (whether ordinary or extraordinary, and whether in
cash, Common Stock, other securities or other property) for which the record date is before the
date the Certificates for the shares are delivered.

2.3 Options 

2.3.1  Grant . Stock options may be granted to eligible recipients in such number and at such
times during the term of the Plan as the Committee or the Board may determine;  provided, however ,
that the maximum number of shares of Common Stock as to which stock options may be granted under the Plan to any one individual in any one
year may not exceed 1,000,000 shares (as adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.6.4).

-6- 

2.3.2  Incentive Stock Options.  At the time of grant, the Committee will determine (a) whether
all or any part of a stock option granted to an eligible employee will be an Incentive Stock Option
and (b) the number of shares subject to such Incentive Stock Option;  provided, however , that (1)
the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the time the option is granted) of the stock with
respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an eligible employee
during any calendar year (under all such plans of AIG and of any subsidiary corporation of AIG)
will not exceed $100,000 and (2) no Incentive Stock Option (other than an Incentive Stock Option
that may be assumed or issued by the Company in connection with a transaction to which Section
424(a) of the Code applies) may be granted to a person who is not eligible to receive an Incentive
Stock Option under the Code. The form of any stock option which is entirely or in part an Incentive
Stock Option will clearly indicate that such stock option is an Incentive Stock Option or, if
applicable, the number of shares subject to the Incentive Stock Option.

2.3.3  Exercise Price.  The exercise price per share with respect to each stock option will be
determined by the Committee but, except as otherwise permitted by Section 1.6.4, may never be less
than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. Unless otherwise noted in the Award Agreement, the
Fair Market Value of the Common Stock will be its closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on
the date of grant of the Award of stock options.

2.3.4  Term of Stock Option.  In no event will any stock option be exercisable after the
expiration of 10 years from the date on which the stock option is granted.

2.3.5  Exercise of Stock Option and Payment for Shares.  The shares of Common Stock covered by
each stock option may not be purchased for one year after the date on which the stock option is
granted (except in the case of termination of Employment due to death, disability or retirement),
but thereafter may be purchased in such installments as will be determined in the Award Agreement
at the time the stock option is granted. Subject to any limitations in the applicable Award
Agreement, any shares not purchased on the applicable installment date may be purchased thereafter
at any time before the final expiration of the stock option. To exercise a stock option, the
Grantee must give written notice to AIG specifying the number of shares to be purchased and
accompanied by payment of the full purchase price therefor in cash or by certified or official bank
check or in another form as determined by the Company, including: (a) personal check, (b) shares of
Common Stock, valued as of the exercise date, of the same class as those to be granted by exercise
of the stock option, (c) any other form of consideration approved by the Company and permitted by
applicable law and (d) any combination of the foregoing. Any person exercising a stock option will
make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may in its
discretion deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance by AIG, on terms acceptable to AIG,
with the provisions of the Securities Act and any other applicable legal requirements. If a Grantee
so requests, shares purchased may be issued in the name of the Grantee and another jointly with the
right of survivorship.

2.3.6  Repricing.  Except as otherwise permitted by Section 1.6.4, reducing the exercise price
of stock options issued and outstanding under the Plan, including through amendment, cancellation
in exchange for the grant of a substitute Award or repurchase for cash or other consideration (in
each case that has the effect of reducing the exercise price), will require approval of the
shareholders.

-7- 

2.4 Stock Appreciation Rights 

2.4.1  Grant.  Stock appreciation rights may be granted to eligible recipients in such number
and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee or the Board may determine;
 provided, however , that the maximum number of shares of Common Stock as to which stock appreciation
rights may be granted under the Plan to any one individual in any one year may not exceed 1,000,000
shares (as adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.6.4).

2.4.2  Exercise Price.  The exercise price per share with respect to each stock appreciation
right will be determined by the Committee but, except as otherwise permitted by Section 1.6.4, may
never be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. Unless otherwise noted in the Award
Agreement, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock will be its closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange on the date of grant of the Award of stock appreciation rights.

2.4.3  Term of Stock Appreciation Right.  In no event will any stock appreciation right be
exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date on which the Stock Appreciation Right is
granted.

2.4.4  Exercise of Stock Appreciation Right and Delivery of Shares.  Each stock appreciation
right may not be exercised for one year after the date on which the stock appreciation right is
granted (except in the case of termination of Employment due to death, disability or retirement),
but thereafter may be exercised in such installments as may be determined in the Award Agreement at
the time the stock appreciation right is granted. Subject to any limitations in the applicable
Award Agreement, any stock appreciation rights not exercised on the applicable installment date may
be exercised thereafter at any time before the final expiration of the stock appreciation right. To
exercise a stock appreciation right, the Grantee must give written notice to AIG specifying the
number of stock appreciation rights to be exercised. Upon exercise of stock appreciation rights,
shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to (a) the excess of (1) the Fair Market
Value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise  over  (2) the exercise price of such stock
appreciation right  multiplied by  (b) the number of stock appreciation rights exercised will be
delivered to the Grantee. Any person exercising a stock appreciation right will make such
representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may in its discretion
deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance by AIG, on terms acceptable to AIG, with the
provisions of the Securities Act and any other applicable legal requirements. If a Grantee so
requests, shares purchased may be issued in the name of the Grantee and another jointly with the
right of survivorship.

2.4.5  Repricing.  Except as otherwise permitted by Section 1.6.4, reducing the exercise price
of stock appreciation rights issued and outstanding under the Plan, including through amendment,
cancellation in exchange for the grant of a substitute Award or repurchase for cash or other consideration (in each case that has the effect of
reducing the exercise price), will require approval of the shareholders.

-8- 

2.5 Restricted Shares 

2.5.1  Grants.  The Committee may grant or offer for sale restricted shares in such amounts and
subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Upon the delivery of such
shares, the Grantee will have the rights of a shareholder with respect to the restricted shares,
subject to any restrictions and conditions as the Committee may include in the applicable Award
Agreement. In the event that a Certificate is issued in respect of restricted shares, such
Certificate may be registered in the name of the Grantee but will be held by AIG or its designated
agent until the time the restrictions lapse.

2.5.2  Right to Vote and Receive Dividends on Restricted Shares.  Each Grantee of an Award of
restricted shares will, during the period of restriction, be the beneficial and record owner of
such restricted shares and will have full voting rights with respect thereto. Unless the Committee
determines otherwise in an Award Agreement, during the period of restriction, all ordinary cash
dividends (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) paid upon any restricted share
will be retained by the Company for the account of the relevant Grantee. Such dividends will revert
back to the Company if for any reason the restricted share upon which such dividends were paid
reverts back to the Company. Upon the expiration of the period of restriction, all such dividends
made on such restricted share and retained by the Company will be paid to the relevant Grantee.
Unless the applicable Award Agreement provides otherwise, additional shares or other property
distributed to the Grantee in respect of restricted shares, as dividends or otherwise, will be
subject to the same restrictions applicable to such restricted shares.

2.6 Restricted Stock Units 

The Committee may grant Awards of restricted stock units in such amounts and subject to such
terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. A Grantee of a restricted stock unit will have
only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of AIG until delivery of shares of Common Stock or
other securities or property is made as specified in the applicable Award Agreement. On the
delivery date specified in the Award Agreement, the Grantee of each restricted stock unit not
previously forfeited or terminated will receive one share of Common Stock, or securities or other
property equal in value to a share of Common Stock or a combination thereof, as specified by the
Committee.

2.7 Dividend Equivalent Rights 

The Committee may include in the Award Agreement with respect to any Award a dividend
equivalent right entitling the Grantee to receive amounts equal to all or any portion of the
dividends that would be paid on the shares of Common Stock covered by such Award if such shares had
been delivered pursuant to such Award. The grantee of a dividend equivalent right will have only
the rights of a general unsecured creditor of AIG until payment of such amounts is made as specified in the applicable Award
Agreement. In the event such a provision is included in an Award Agreement, the Committee will,
subject to Section 3.13.1, determine whether such payments will be made in cash, in shares of
Common Stock or in another form, whether they will

-9- 

be conditioned upon the exercise of the Award to
which they relate, the time or times at which they will
be made, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee will deem appropriate.

2.8 Other Stock-Based Awards 

The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards (including the
grant or offer for sale of unrestricted shares of Common Stock) in such amounts and subject to such
terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Such Awards may entail the transfer of actual
shares of Common Stock to Award recipients and may include Awards designed to comply with or take
advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.

ARTICLE III MISCELLANEOUS 

3.1 Amendment of the Plan 

3.1.1 Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, the Board may from time to time
suspend, discontinue, revise or amend the Plan in any respect whatsoever, including in any manner
that adversely affects the rights, duties or obligations of any Grantee of an Award.

3.1.2 Unless otherwise determined by the Board, shareholder approval of any suspension,
discontinuance, revision or amendment will be obtained only to the extent necessary to comply with
any applicable laws, regulations or rules of a securities exchange or self-regulatory agency.

3.2 Tax Withholding 

Grantees shall be solely responsible for any applicable taxes (including, without limitation,
income and excise taxes) and penalties, and any interest that accrues thereon, that they incur in
connection with the receipt, vesting or exercise of any Award. As a condition to the delivery of
any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any Award or the lifting or lapse of restrictions on any
Award, or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a federal or other governmental tax
withholding obligation on the part of the Company relating to an Award (including, without
limitation, FICA tax), (a) the Company may deduct or withhold (or cause to be deducted or withheld)
from any payment or distribution to a Grantee whether or not pursuant to the Plan (including shares
of Common Stock otherwise deliverable) or (b) the Committee will be entitled to require that the
Grantee remit cash to the Company (through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case in an
amount sufficient in the opinion of the Company to satisfy such withholding obligation.

-10- 

3.3 Required Consents and Legends 

3.3.1 If the Committee at any time determines that any Consent (as hereinafter defined) is
necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any Award, the
delivery of shares of Common Stock or the delivery of any securities or other property under the
Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action a   Plan Action  ), then,
subject to Section 3.13.2, such Plan Action will not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and
until such Consent will have been effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee.
The Committee may direct that any Certificate evidencing shares delivered pursuant to the Plan will
bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on transferability as the Committee may determine to
be necessary or desirable, and may advise the transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against
any legended shares.

3.3.2 The term   Consent   as used in this Article III with respect to any Plan Action includes
(a) any and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities
exchange or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction
outside the United States, (b) or any other matter, which the Committee may deem necessary or
desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain
an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (c)
any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a Plan Action by any
governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (d) any
and all consents or other documentation required by the Committee. Nothing herein will require the
Company to list, register or qualify the shares of Common Stock on any securities exchange.

3.4 Right of Offset 

Except with respect to Awards made under the Plan that are intended to be  deferred
compensation  subject to Section 409A, the Company will have the right to offset against its
obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock (or other property) under the Plan or any Award
Agreement any outstanding amounts (including, without limitation, travel and entertainment or
advance account balances, loans, repayment obligations under any Awards, or amounts repayable to
the Company pursuant to tax equalization, housing, automobile or other employee programs) that the
Grantee then owes to the Company and any amounts the Committee otherwise deems appropriate pursuant
to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

3.5 Nonassignability; No Hedging 

No Award (or any rights and obligations thereunder) granted to any person under the Plan may
be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or
hedged, in any manner (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily and whether by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or by
the laws of descent and distribution. Any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, or other disposition in violation of the provisions of this Section 3.5 will be null
and void and any Award which is hedged in any manner will immediately be forfeited. All of

-11- 

the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreements will be binding upon any
permitted successors and assigns.

3.6 Successor Entity 

Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement and except as otherwise determined
by the Committee, in the event of a merger, consolidation, mandatory share exchange or other
similar business combination of AIG with or into any other entity (  Successor Entity  ) or any
transaction in which another person or entity acquires all of the issued and outstanding Common
Stock of AIG, or all or substantially all of the assets of AIG, outstanding Awards may be assumed
or a substantially equivalent award may be substituted by such successor entity or a parent or
subsidiary of such successor entity.

3.7 Right of Discharge Reserved 

Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Agreement will confer upon any Grantee the right to
continued Employment by the Company or affect any right which the Company may have to terminate
such Employment.

3.8 Nature of Payments 

3.8.1 Any and all grants of Awards and deliveries of Common Stock, securities or other
property under the Plan will be in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the
Company by the Grantee. Awards under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, and subject
to Section 3.13.1, be made in substitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation
otherwise payable to a participant in the Plan. Only whole shares of Common Stock will be delivered
under the Plan. Awards will, to the extent reasonably practicable, be aggregated in order to
eliminate any fractional shares. Fractional shares may, in the discretion of the Committee, be
forfeited or be settled in cash or otherwise as the Committee may determine.

3.8.2 All such grants and deliveries will constitute a special discretionary incentive payment
to the Grantee and will not be required to be taken into account in computing the amount of salary
or compensation of the Grantee for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits
under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit
plan of the Company or under any agreement with the Grantee, unless the Company specifically
provides otherwise.

3.9 Non-Uniform Determinations 

3.9.1 The Committee s determinations under the Plan and Award Agreements need not be uniform
and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards
under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the Committee

-12- 

will be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations under
Award Agreements, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Agreements, as to (a) the
persons to receive Awards, (b) the terms and provisions of Awards and (c) whether a Grantee s
Employment has been terminated for purposes of the Plan.

3.9.2 To the extent the Committee deems it necessary, appropriate or desirable to comply with
foreign law or practices and to further the purposes of the Plan, the Committee may, without
amending the Plan, establish special rules applicable to Awards to Grantees who are foreign
nationals, are employed outside the United States or both and grant Awards (or amend existing
Awards) in accordance with those rules.

3.10 Other Payments or Awards 

Nothing contained in the Plan will be deemed in any way to limit or restrict the Company from
making any award or payment to any person under any other plan, arrangement or understanding,
whether now existing or hereafter in effect.

3.11 Plan Headings 

The headings in the Plan are for the purpose of convenience only and are not intended to
define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

3.12 Termination of Plan 

The Board reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time;  provided, however , that in any
case, the Plan will terminate May 16, 2017, and  provided further , that all Awards made under the
Plan before its termination will remain in effect until such Awards have been satisfied or
terminated in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award
Agreements.

3.13 Section 409A 

3.13.1 All Awards made under the Plan that are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject
to Section 409A shall be interpreted, administered and construed to comply with Section 409A, and
all Awards made under the Plan that are intended to be exempt from Section 409A shall be
interpreted, administered and construed to comply with and preserve such exemption. The Board and
the Committee shall have full authority to give effect to the intent of the foregoing sentence. To
the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential
inconsistency between the Plan and a provision of any Award or Award Agreement with respect to an
Award, the Plan shall govern.

3.13.2 Without limiting the generality of Section 3.13.1, with respect to any Award made under
the Plan that is intended to be  deferred compensation  subject

-13- 

to Section 409A: (a) references to termination of the Grantee s employment will mean the
Grantee s separation from service with the Company within the meaning of Section 409A; (b) any
payment to be made with respect to such Award in connection with the Grantee s separation from
service with the Company within the meaning of Section 409A that would be subject to the
limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after the
Grantee s separation from service (or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section
409A; (c) to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any other securities, other Awards
or other property that the Company may deliver in lieu of shares of Common Stock in respect of an
Award shall not have the effect of deferring delivery or payment beyond the date on which such
delivery or payment would occur with respect to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise
have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose in accordance with
the requirements of Section 409A); (d) with respect to any required Consent described in Section
3.3 or the applicable Award Agreement, if such Consent has not been effected or obtained as of the
latest date provided by such Award Agreement for payment in respect of such Award and further delay
of payment is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such Award or
portion thereof, as applicable, will be forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning
or vesting; (e) if the Award includes a  series of installment payments  (within the meaning of
Section
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations), the Grantee s right to the series of
installment payments shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments and not as a
right to a single payment; (f) if the Award includes  dividend equivalents  (within the meaning of
Section 1.409A-3(e) of the Treasury Regulations), the Grantee s right to the dividend equivalents
shall be treated separately from the right to other amounts under the Award; and (g) unless the
Committee determines otherwise, for purposes of determining whether the Grantee has experienced a
separation from service with the Company within the meaning of Section 409A,  subsidiary  shall
mean a corporation or other entity in a chain of corporations or other entities in which each
corporation or other entity, starting with AIG, has a controlling interest in another corporation
or other entity in the chain, ending with such corporation or other entity. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, the term  controlling interest  has the same meaning as provided in Section
1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of the Treasury Regulations, provided that the language  at least 20 percent 
is used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place it appears in Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) of
the Treasury Regulations.

3.14 Governing Law 

THE PLAN WILL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

3.15 Severability; Entire Agreement 

If any of the provisions of the Plan or any Award Agreement is finally held to be invalid,
illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision will be deemed modified to
the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the
remaining provisions will not be affected thereby;  provided 

-14- 

that if any of such provisions is finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable
because it exceeds the maximum scope determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be
enforceable, such provision will be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify
such scope in order to make such provision enforceable hereunder. The Plan and any Award Agreements
contain the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and
supersede all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations
and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.

3.16 Waiver of Claims 

Each Grantee of an Award recognizes and agrees that before being selected by the Committee to
receive an Award he or she has no right to any benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of
the Grantee s receipt of any Award hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right to contest the
amount of any Award, the terms of any Award Agreement, any determination, action or omission
hereunder or under any Award Agreement by the Committee, the Company or the Board, or any amendment
to the Plan or any Award Agreement (other than an amendment to the Plan or an Award Agreement to
which his or her consent is expressly required by the express terms of an Award Agreement).

3.17 No Liability With Respect to Tax Qualification or Adverse Tax Treatment 

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in no event shall the Company be
liable to a Grantee on account of an Award s failure to (a) qualify for favorable United States or
foreign tax treatment or (b) avoid adverse tax treatment under United States or foreign law,
including, without limitation, Section 409A.

3.18 No Third Party Beneficiaries 

Except as expressly provided therein, neither the Plan nor any Award Agreement will confer on
any person other than the Company and the Grantee of any Award any rights or remedies thereunder.
The exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 1.3.2 will inure to the benefit of a
Covered Person s estate and beneficiaries and legatees.

3.19 Successors and Assigns of AIG 

The terms of the Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of AIG and any successor
entity contemplated by Section 3.6.

-15- 

3.20 Date of Adoption and Approval of Shareholders 

The Plan was adopted on March 14, 2007 by the Board and approved by the shareholders of AIG at
the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Plan was amended and restated by the Board on November
14, 2007, November 11, 2008, and    December       , 2008, which amendment and restatement was approved
by the shareholders of AIG at the 2008 Special Meeting of Shareholders held on    December       , 2008.

-16- 

</EX-10.62>

<EX-10.64>
 12
 y74794exv10w64.htm
 EX-10.64: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF PERFORMANCE RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.64 

Exhibit 
10(64)

   American International Group, Inc.   
  Partners Plan   
  Performance RSU Award Agreement  

This award agreement (this    Award Agreement   ) sets forth the terms and conditions of an award
(this    Award   ) of performance-based restricted stock units (   Performance RSUs   ) awarded to you
pursuant to the American International Group, Inc. Partners Plan (the    Partners Plan   ) and issued
to you under the American International Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the    SIP   ).

1.  The SIP . This Award is issued under the SIP, the terms of which are incorporated
in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not defined in
this Award Agreement, or in the attached Glossary of Terms, have the meanings as used or defined
in the Partners Plan or the SIP.

2.  Award .

(a)   Award of Performance RSUs.   The number of Performance RSUs initially subject to this
Award, the Date of Grant and the Performance Period are set forth at the end of this Award
Agreement. At the end of the Performance Period, the Committee will determine the number of
Performance RSUs earned under this Award in accordance with the terms of the Partners Plan and will
advise you of the number (such earned Performance RSUs, the    Earned RSUs   ). The number of Earned
RSUs may range from 0% to 150% of the Performance RSUs initially subject to this Award.

(b)   Status of Earned RSUs.   Each Earned RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of
AIG to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement, one
share of Common Stock (the    Share    or the    Shares    as the context requires) (or securities or other
property equal to the Fair Market Value thereof) on the Scheduled Vesting Date as provided herein.
Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a
shareholder, of AIG. THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE PARTNERS
PLAN, THE SIP AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE
OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 15.

3.  Vesting and Payout .

(a)   Vesting  . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4 and 6, you shall
become vested in the Earned RSUs in two equal installments on the third and fourth anniversaries of
the first day of the Performance Period for this Award (each, a    Scheduled Vesting Date    for this
Award). Except as provided in Paragraph 6, if your Employment terminates for any reason prior to a
Scheduled Vesting Date, your rights in respect of all of your unvested Performance RSUs shall be
forfeited and terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect
of such Performance RSUs.

(b)   Payout  . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4, 6, 8 and 9, the
Shares underlying the vested Earned RSUs shall be paid promptly after the respective Scheduled
Vesting Date, but no later than the end of the calendar year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date
falls. The Company may, at its option and subject to the Partners Plan and the SIP, deliver
securities or other property in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise payable on a
Scheduled Vesting Date. Such payment shall equal the product of the number of Shares to be
delivered on the Scheduled Vesting Date and the Fair Market Value of one Share of Common Stock on
the Scheduled Vesting Date. You shall be deemed the beneficial owner of the Shares at the close of
business on the Scheduled Vesting Date and shall be entitled to any dividend or distribution that
has not already been made with respect to such Shares if the record date for such dividend or
distribution is on or after the close of business on the Scheduled Vesting Date. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if a Scheduled Vesting Date occurs at a time when the tax deduction with respect to
your payout of Shares (or securities or other property) would be limited or eliminated by Section
162(m) of the Code, payout of the Shares (or securities or other property) may be deferred by the
Company under the circumstances described in Section 409A until the earliest date that the Company
reasonably anticipates that the deduction or payment will not be limited or eliminated.

(c)   Death  . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die:

(i) 
       
     during the Performance Period, and provided your rights in
respect of your Performance RSUs have not yet terminated, (A) you shall be
eligible to vest in a pro-rated amount of your Performance RSUs (based upon
the number of whole or partial months you were employed during the Performance
Period relative to 24 and the determination, in the Committee s sole
discretion, of achievement through the date of your death against performance
targets for the Performance Period) and (B) the Shares (or securities or other
property in lieu of all or any part thereof) corresponding to such pro-rated
amount of your Performance RSUs determined in accordance with Paragraphs
2(c)(i)(A) and 2(b) shall be paid to the representative of your estate
promptly after your death (but no later than 90 days after your death); or 

(ii) 
       
     at any time prior to a Scheduled Vesting Date but after
completion of the Performance Period, and provided your rights in respect of
your Earned RSUs have not yet terminated, the Shares (or securities or other
property in lieu of all or any part thereof) corresponding to your outstanding
Earned RSUs shall be paid to the representative of your estate promptly after
your death (but no later than 90 days after your death). 

(d)   Delay of Payment  . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer payment
of Performance RSUs or permit you to elect to defer payment of Performance RSUs, in each case in a
manner that conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code.

-2- 

4.  Termination of Performance RSUs and Earned RSUs; Non-Payment of Shares .

(a)   Termination on Separation from Service  . Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c) and 6, if
your Employment with the Company terminates for any reason or you are otherwise no longer actively
employed by the Company:

(i) 
       
     during the Performance Period, your rights in respect of your
outstanding Performance RSUs shall immediately terminate, there will be no
Earned RSUs with respect thereto and no Shares (or securities or other
property) shall be paid in respect thereof; or 

(ii) 
       
     at any time prior to a Scheduled Vesting Date but after the
completion of the Performance Period, your rights in respect of your
outstanding unvested Earned RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no Shares
(or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such unvested
Earned RSUs. 

(b)   Termination on Other Events  . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as
further provided in Paragraph 6, your rights in respect of all of your Performance RSUs or Earned
RSUs (whether or not vested) shall immediately terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other
property) shall be paid in respect of Performance RSUs or Earned RSUs, if at any time prior to the
Scheduled Vesting Date:

(i) 
       
     you attempt to have any dispute under this Award Agreement,
the Partners Plan or the SIP resolved in any manner that is not provided for
by Paragraph 15; 

(ii) 
       
     any event that constitutes Cause has occurred; 

(iii) 
       
     you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any
Client to transact business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or
refrain from doing any business with the Company or (B) interfere with or
damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the
Company and any such Client or (C) Solicit any person who is an employee of
the Company to resign from the Company or to apply for or accept employment
with any Competitive Enterprise; or 

(iv) 
       
     you fail to certify to AIG, in accordance with procedures
established by the Committee, with respect to a Scheduled Vesting Date that
you have complied, or the Committee determines that you have failed as of a
Scheduled Vesting Date to comply, with all of the terms and conditions of this
Award Agreement. By accepting the delivery of Shares (or securities or other
property) under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented
and certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement. 

-3- 

(c)   Termination on Failure to Certify.   Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if a
Scheduled Vesting Date in respect of any of your outstanding Earned RSUs occurs, and Shares (or
securities or other property) with respect to such outstanding Earned RSUs would be payable under
the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, except that you have not complied with the
conditions or your obligations under Paragraph 4(b)(iv), all of your rights with respect to your
outstanding Earned RSUs shall terminate no later than the Scheduled Vesting Date for such Shares.

5.  Repayment . If, following the delivery of Shares (or securities or other
property), the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in
respect of such delivery were not satisfied, the Company shall be entitled to receive, and you
shall be obligated to pay the Company immediately upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of
the Shares (determined as of the Scheduled Vesting Date) and the amount of securities or other
property (to the extent that securities or other property was delivered in lieu of Shares)
delivered with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date, without reduction for any Shares (or
securities or other property) applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect
of such Shares (or securities or other property).

6.  Disability and Retirement .

(a)   During the Performance Period  . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award
Agreement, but subject to Paragraph 6(c):

(i) 
       
     if you become subject to Disability during the Performance
Period, and provided your rights in respect of your Performance RSUs have not
yet terminated, (A) you shall be eligible to vest in a pro-rated amount of
your Performance RSUs (based upon the number of whole or partial months you
were employed during the Performance Period relative to 24 and the
determination, in the Committee s sole discretion, of achievement through the
date of your becoming subject to Disability against performance targets for
the Performance Period) and (B) the Shares (or securities or other property in
lieu of all or any part thereof) corresponding to such pro-rated amount of
your Performance RSUs determined in accordance with Paragraphs 6(a)(i)(A) and
2(b) shall be paid to you promptly after you become subject to Disability (but
no later than 90 days thereafter); or 

(ii) 
       
     if you Retire during the Performance Period, and provided
your rights in respect of your Performance RSUs have not yet terminated, (A)
you shall be eligible to vest in a pro-rated amount of your Performance RSUs
(based upon the number of whole or partial months you were employed during the
Performance Period relative to 24) and (B) the Shares (or securities or other
property in lieu of all or any part thereof) corresponding to such pro-rated
amount of your Performance RSUs determined in accordance with Paragraphs
6(a)(ii)(A) and 2(b) shall be paid to you as soon as practicable in the
calendar year immediately following the end of such Performance Period 

-4- 

when performance has been determined (but no later than the end of such
year). 

(b)   After the End of the Performance Period.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph 6(c), if you become subject to Disability or Retire after
the completion of the Performance Period, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your then outstanding unvested Earned RSUs (as a result of which any such then
unvested outstanding Earned RSUs shall vest and shares corresponding to the Earned RSUs shall be
paid to you promptly after the date you become subject to Disability or Retire, but no later than
90 days after such event (in the case of Disability) or the end of the calendar year in which such
date falls (in the case of Retirement), as applicable), but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply.

(c)   Termination of Rights Following Disability or Retirement.   Without limiting the
application of Paragraph 4(b) or Paragraph 4(c), your rights in respect of any outstanding
Performance RSUs that become vested solely by reason of Paragraph 6(a) or 6(b) shall terminate, and
no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such outstanding
Performance RSUs if, following your becoming subject to Disability or Retiring and prior to the
delivery of Shares (or securities or other property) in respect of such outstanding Performance
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise.

7.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the
limitations set forth in Section 8L of the Partners Plan shall apply. Any assignment or
delegation in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 7 shall be null and void.

8.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the SIP).

(b) Your rights in respect of your Performance RSUs and Earned RSUs are conditioned on the
receipt to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as defined in Section
8N of the Partners Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable (including,
without limitation, your consenting to deductions from your wages, or another arrangement
satisfactory to the Committee, to reimburse the Company for advances made on your behalf to satisfy
withholding and other tax obligations in connection with this Award);  provided  that if such consent
has not been so effected or obtained as of the latest date provided by the Partners Plan for the
delivery of Shares or securities or other property in respect of any Performance RSUs and further
delay of delivery is not permitted in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such
Performance RSUs will be forfeited and terminate notwithstanding any prior earning or vesting.

-5- 

(c) AIG may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with AIG). AIG may advise the
transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended Shares.

9.  Section 409A .

(a) Performance RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement are intended to provide payments that
are  deferred compensation  subject to Section 409A, and this Award Agreement is intended to, and
shall be interpreted, administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the
Performance RSUs. The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to the intent of this
Paragraph 9(a). To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict
or potential inconsistency between the provisions of this Award Agreement and the provisions of the
Partners Plan, the Partners Plan shall govern.

(b) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph 9(a), references to the termination of your
Employment with respect to Performance RSUs shall mean your separation from service with the
Company within the meaning of Section 409A.

(c) Any payment to be made under the Performance RSUs in connection with termination of your
Employment with the Company (and any other payment under the Partners Plan) that would be subject
to the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after
termination of your Employment (or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section
409A.

(d) To the extent necessary to comply with Paragraph 9(a), any securities or other property
that the Company may deliver in respect of the Performance RSUs will not have the effect of
deferring delivery or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose in accordance with Paragraph 3(d)).

(e) Each payment under the Performance RSUs will be treated as a separate payment for purposes
of Section 409A.

10.  No Rights to Continued Employment . Nothing in this Award Agreement, the Partners
Plan or the SIP shall be construed as giving you any right to continued Employment by the Company
or affect any right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of
your Employment or to be included in any future plans of similar nature.

11.  Successors and Assigns of AIG . The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, AIG and its successor entities (as
defined in Section 3.6 of the SIP).

12.  Committee Discretion . Subject to Paragraph 13, the Committee shall have full
discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be

-6- 

made in connection with this Award Agreement (including, without limitation, whether you have
become subject to Disability), and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.

13.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time and in any manner to
amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement and the Partners Plan in
accordance with Sections 1.3.1 of the SIP, including in a manner adverse to your rights;  provided 
that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.1(a), 1.3.1(b) and 3.1 of the SIP, the
Committee may not accelerate or postpone the payout of Shares (or securities or other property in
lieu of all or any part thereof) pursuant to this Award Agreement to occur at a time other than
the time otherwise provided for in this Award Agreement.

14.  Adjustment . Subject to Paragraph 13, the Performance RSUs shall be subject to
amendment and adjustment in accordance with Section 1.6.4 of the SIP.

15.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Company and you, arising out of or relating
to or concerning the SIP or this Award Agreement, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New
York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc. (the    NYSE   ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is
not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the    AAA   ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by you must
first be submitted to the Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the
Committee. This paragraph is subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15(b) and (c) below.

(b)  THE COMPANY AND YOU HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE
OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF
OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE SIP OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR
RESOLVED ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 15(a) OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT.  This includes any suit, action or
proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Company and you
acknowledge that the forum designated by this Paragraph 15(b) has a reasonable relation to the SIP,
this Award Agreement, and to your relationship with the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
nothing herein shall preclude the Company from bringing any action, suit or proceeding in any other
court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Paragraph 15.

(c) The agreement by you and the Company as to forum is independent of the law that may be
applied in the action, suit or proceeding, and you and the Company agree to such forum even if the
forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law. You and the Company hereby waive, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which you or the Company now or
hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court referred to in Paragraph 15(b). You and the Company undertake not to
commence any action, suit or proceeding

-7- 

arising out of or relating to or concerning this Award Agreement in any forum other than a
forum described in this Paragraph 15. You and (subject to the last sentence of Paragraph 15(b))
the Company agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a final and
non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court shall be
conclusive and binding upon you and the Company.

(d) You irrevocably appoint the Secretary of AIG as your agent for service of process in
connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the
Partners Plan or the Award Agreement which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of
Paragraph 15(a), who shall promptly advise you of any such service of process.

(e) You hereby agree to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning any
grant made under the Partners Plan and any dispute, controversy or claim relating to the Partners
Plan or this Award Agreement, except that you may disclose information concerning such dispute or
claim to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute or to your legal counsel
(provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to
the prosecution or defense of the dispute).

(f) You recognize and agree that prior to the grant of this Award you have no right to any
benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the receipt of this Award, you expressly
waive any right to contest the amount of this Award, terms of this Award Agreement and the Partners
Plan, any determination, action or omission hereunder or under the SIP by the Committee or AIG of
the Board, or any amendment to the Partners Plan or this Award Agreement and you expressly waive
any claim related in any way to the Award including any claim based on any promissory estoppel or
other theory in connection with this Award and your Employment with the Company.

16.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. 

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of
convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions
hereof.

-8- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. has caused this Award Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Recipient:

Number of Performance

RSUs:

Max. Earned RSUs

Target Earned RSUs

Threshold Earned RSUs

Min. Earned RSUs
 
     0 

Performance Period:

Date of Grant:

Scheduled Vesting Date:

-9- 

Glossary of Terms

Solely for purposes of this award of Performance RSUs, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below. Capitalized terms not defined in this Glossary of Terms shall have the meanings
as used or defined in the applicable Award Agreement or the SIP.

Cause    means (i) your conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo
contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud,
false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery,
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in
clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) your engaging in any
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) your failure to perform your duties to
the Company; (iv) your violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations
issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities
exchange or association of which AIG or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) your
violation of any Company policy concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or
your material violation of any other Company policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) your
engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or
negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company; or (vii) your
engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Company. The determination as to whether    Cause    has
occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the
authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences under the Partners Plan, SIP or any
Award Agreement of the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting
   Cause  . 

Client    means any client or prospective client of the Company to whom you provided services,
or for whom you transacted business, or whose identity became known to you in connection with your
relationship with or Employment by the Company.

Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity, or (ii)
owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity, that, in either
case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Company is engaged. The activities covered
by the previous sentence include, without limitation, all insurance and re-insurance and insurance
and re-insurance-related activities, asset management, financial product activities (including,
without limitation, derivative activities) and financial services in the United States and abroad.

Disability    means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is
expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 36 months during which you
qualify for income replacement benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan for at least
six months, or, if you do not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which you
are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined

-i- 

physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to
last for a continuous period of not less than 36 months.

Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including any amendments or
successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance
thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further
administrative guidance.

Solicit    means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

-ii- 

</EX-10.64>

<EX-10.65>
 13
 y74794exv10w65.htm
 EX-10.65: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF TIME-VESTED RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.65 

Exhibit 10(65)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
RSU AWARD AGREEMENT 

This award agreement (this    Award Agreement   ) sets forth the terms and conditions of an award
(this    Award   ) of restricted stock units (   RSUs   ) granted to you under the American International
Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement, or in the attached Glossary of Terms, have the meanings as used or
defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The number of RSUs subject to this Award is set forth at the end of this
Award Agreement. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of AIG to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement, one share of Common Stock
(the    Share    or the    Shares    as the context requires) (or securities or other property equal to the
Fair Market Value thereof) on the Scheduled Vesting Date as provided herein. Until such delivery,
you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder, of AIG.
 THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN
PARAGRAPH 15. 

3.  Vesting and Payout .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4 and 6, you
shall become vested in the RSUs on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant specified at the end
of this Award Agreement (the    Scheduled Vesting Date   ). Except as provided in Paragraph 6, if your
Employment terminates for any reason prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, your rights in respect of
all of your RSUs shall terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in
respect of such RSUs.

(b)  Payout . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4, 6, 8 and 9,
the Shares underlying the vested RSUs shall be paid promptly after the Scheduled Vesting Date, but
no later than the end of the calendar year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date falls. The Company
may, at its option and subject to the Plan, deliver securities or other property in lieu of all or
any portion of the Shares otherwise payable on the Scheduled Vesting Date. Such payment shall equal
the product of the number of Shares to be delivered on the Scheduled Vesting Date and the Fair
Market Value of one Share of Common Stock on the Scheduled Vesting Date. You shall be deemed the
beneficial owner of the Shares at the close of business on the Scheduled Vesting Date and shall be
entitled to any dividend or distribution that has not already been made with respect to such Shares
if the record date for such dividend or distribution is on or after the close of

business on the Scheduled Vesting Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Scheduled
Vesting Date occurs at a time when you are considered by AIG to be one of its  covered employees 
within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then, unless the Committee determines otherwise,
payout of the Shares (or securities or other property) may be deferred by the Company under the
circumstances described in Section 409A until the earliest date that the Company reasonably
anticipates that the deduction or payment will not be limited or eliminated.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided your rights in respect of your RSUs have not
previously terminated, the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or any part
thereof) corresponding to your outstanding RSUs shall be paid to the representative of your estate
promptly after your death (but no later than 90 days after your death).

(d)  Delay of Payment . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
payment of RSUs or permit you to elect to defer payment of RSUs, in each case in a manner that
conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code.

4.  Termination of RSUs and Non-Payment of Shares .

(a) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c) and 6, your rights in respect of your outstanding
RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in
respect of such unvested RSUs, if at any time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date your Employment
with the Company terminates for any reason, or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed by the
Company.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as further provided in Paragraph 6,
your rights in respect of all of your RSUs (whether or not vested) shall immediately terminate, and
no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such RSUs, if at any time
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under this Award Agreement or the Plan resolved in
any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 15; or

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred; or

(iii) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with
the Company or (B) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any
relationship between the Company and any such Client or (C) Solicit any person who is an
employee of the Company to resign from the Company or to apply for or accept employment
with any Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) you fail to certify to AIG, in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date that you have complied, or the
Committee determines that you have failed as

-2- 

of the Scheduled Vesting Date to comply, with all of the terms and conditions of this
Award Agreement. By accepting the delivery of Shares (or securities or other property)
under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified at such
time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the Scheduled Vesting Date in respect of any
of your outstanding RSUs occurs, and Shares (or securities or other property) with respect to such
outstanding RSUs would be paid under the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, except that
you have not complied with the conditions or your obligations under Paragraph 4(b)(iv), all of your
rights with respect to your outstanding RSUs shall terminate no later than the Scheduled Vesting
Date for such Shares.

5.  Repayment . If, following the delivery of Shares (or securities or other property),
the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such
delivery were not satisfied, the Company shall be entitled to receive, and you shall be obligated
to pay the Company immediately upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of the Shares
(determined as of the Scheduled Vesting Date) and the amount of securities or other property (to
the extent that any securities or other property was delivered in lieu of Shares) delivered with
respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date, without reduction for any Shares (or securities or other
property) applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such Shares (or
securities or other property).

6.  Disability and Retirement .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), if you become subject to Disability or terminate Employment by means of retirement at or
after age 65 (   Retire   ), the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to
your then outstanding unvested RSUs (as a result of which any such then unvested outstanding RSUs
shall vest and the Shares (or securities or other property) corresponding to your outstanding RSUs
shall be paid to you promptly after the date you become subject to Disability or Retire, but no
later than 90 days thereafter (if you become subject to Disability) or the end of the calendar year
in which such date falls (if you Retire), as applicable), but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b) or Paragraph 4(c), your rights in
respect of any outstanding RSUs that become vested solely by reason of Paragraph 6(a) shall
terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such
outstanding RSUs if, following your becoming subject to Disability or Retiring and prior to the
delivery of Shares (or securities or other property) in respect of such outstanding RSUs, you (i)
form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any
Competitive Enterprise or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to,
association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any
Competitive Enterprise.

7.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply. Any

-3- 

assignment or delegation in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 7 shall be null and
void.

8.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan).

(b) Your rights in respect of your RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required Consent (as defined in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that
the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable (including, without limitation, your
consenting to deductions from your wages, or another arrangement satisfactory to the Committee, to
reimburse the Company for advances made on your behalf to satisfy withholding and other tax
obligations in connection with this Award);  provided  that if such Consent has not been so effected
or obtained as of the latest date provided by this Award Agreement for the delivery of Shares (or
securities or other property) in respect of any RSUs and further delay of delivery is not permitted
in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such RSUs will be forfeited and terminate
notwithstanding any prior vesting.

(c) AIG may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with AIG). AIG may advise the
transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended Shares.

9.  Section 409A .

(a) RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject
to Section 409A, and this Award Agreement is intended to, and shall be interpreted, administered
and construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the RSUs. The Committee shall have full
authority to give effect to the intent of this Paragraph 9(a). To the extent necessary to give
effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the
provisions of this Award Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall govern.

(b) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph 9(a), references to the termination of your
Employment with respect to the RSUs shall mean your separation from service with the Company within
the meaning of Section 409A.

(c) Any payment to be made under the RSUs in connection with termination of your Employment
(and any other payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section
409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after termination of your Employment
(or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A.

(d) To the extent necessary to comply with Paragraph 9(a), any securities or other property
that the Company may deliver in respect of the RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery
or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with respect to the Shares
that would

-4- 

otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose in
accordance with Paragraph 3(d)).

(e) Each payment under the RSUs shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section
409A.

10.  No Rights to Continued Employment . Nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan
shall be construed as giving you any right to continued Employment by the Company or affect any
right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your Employment.

11.  Successors and Assigns of AIG . The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, AIG and its successor entities (as
defined in Section 3.6 of the Plan).

12.  Committee Discretion . Subject to Paragraph 13, the Committee shall have full
discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with
this Award Agreement (including, without limitation, whether you have become subject to
Disability), and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.

13.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
 provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.1(a), 1.3.1(b) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after
your death), and  provided ,  further , that the Committee may not accelerate or postpone the payout of
the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or any part thereof) to occur at a time
other than the applicable time provided for in this Award Agreement. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or
persons designated by the Committee.

14.  Adjustment . Subject to Paragraph 13, the RSUs shall be subject to amendment and
adjustment in accordance with Section 1.6.4 of the Plan.

15.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Company and you, arising out of or relating
to or concerning the Plan or this Award Agreement, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New
York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc. (the    NYSE   ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is
not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the    AAA   ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by you must
first be submitted to the Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the
Committee. This paragraph is subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15(b) and (c) below.

-5- 

(b)  THE COMPANY AND YOU HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE
OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF
OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR
RESOLVED ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 15(a) OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT.  This includes any suit, action or
proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Company and you
acknowledge that the forum designated by this Paragraph 15(b) has a reasonable relation to the
Plan, this Award Agreement, and to your relationship with the Company. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude the Company from bringing any action, suit or proceeding
in any other court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Paragraph 15.

(c) The agreement by you and the Company as to forum is independent of the law that may be
applied in the action, suit or proceeding and you and the Company agree to such forum even if the
forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law. You and the Company hereby waive, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which you or the Company now or
hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court referred to in Paragraph 15(b). You and the Company undertake not to
commence any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Award
Agreement in any forum other than a forum described in this Paragraph 15. You and (subject to the
last sentence of Paragraph 15(b)) the Company agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any
such court shall be conclusive and binding upon you and the Company.

(d) You irrevocably appoint the Secretary of AIG as your agent for service of process in
connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this
Award Agreement which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 15(a), who shall
promptly advise you of any such service of process.

(e) You hereby agree to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, a
dispute described in this Paragraph 15, except that you may disclose information concerning such
dispute to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute or to your legal counsel
( provided  that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to
the prosecution or defense of the dispute).

(f) You recognize and agree that prior to the grant of this Award you have no right to any
benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the receipt of this Award, you expressly waive
any right to contest the amount of this Award, terms of this Award Agreement, any determination,
action or omission hereunder or under the Plan by the Committee, AIG or the Board, or any amendment
to the Plan or this Award Agreement (other than an amendment to which your consent is expressly
required by Paragraph 13) and you expressly waive any claim related in any way to the Award
including any claim based on any promissory estoppel or other theory in connection with this Award
and your Employment with the Company.

-6- 

16.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS .

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-7- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. has caused this Award Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By: 

By: 

Recipient:

Number of RSUs:

Date of Grant:

Scheduled Vesting Date:

Receipt

Acknowledged:

Address:

Street 

City,

State

Zip Code 

Social Security No./Local I.D. No. 

-8- 

Glossary of Terms 

Solely for purposes of this award of RSUs, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below. Capitalized terms not defined in this Glossary of Terms shall have the meanings as used or
defined in the applicable Award Agreement or the Plan.

Cause    means (i) your conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo
contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud,
false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery,
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in
clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) your engaging in any
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) your failure to perform your duties to
the Company; (iv) your violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations
issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities
exchange or association of which AIG or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) your
violation of any Company policy concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or
your material violation of any other Company policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) your
engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or
negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company; or (vii) your
engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Company. The determination as to whether    Cause    has
occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the
authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences under the Plan or any Award Agreement of
the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting    Cause  . 

Client    means any client or prospective client of the Company to whom you provided services,
or for whom you transacted business, or whose identity became known to you in connection with your
relationship with or Employment by the Company.

Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity, or (ii)
owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity, that, in either
case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Company is engaged. The activities covered
by the previous sentence include, without limitation, all insurance and re-insurance and insurance
and re-insurance-related activities, asset management, financial product activities (including,
without limitation, derivative activities) and financial services in the United States and abroad.

Disability    means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is
expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 36 months during which you
qualify for income replacement benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan for at least
six months, or, if you do not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which you
are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 36 months.

-9- 

Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including any amendments or
successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance
thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further
administrative guidance.

Solicit      means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

-10- 

</EX-10.65>

<EX-10.67>
 14
 y74794exv10w67.htm
 EX-10.67: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF TIME-VESTED RSU AWARD AGREEMENT WITH THREE-YEAR PRO RATA VESTING

EX-10.67 

Exhibit 10(67)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
RSU AWARD AGREEMENT 

This award agreement (this    Award Agreement   ) sets forth the terms and conditions of an award
(this    Award   ) of restricted stock units (   RSUs   ) granted to you under the American International
Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement, or in the attached Glossary of Terms, have the meanings as used or
defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The number of RSUs subject to this Award is set forth at the end of this
Award Agreement. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of AIG to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement, one share of Common Stock
(the    Share    or the    Shares    as the context requires) (or securities or other property equal to the
Fair Market Value thereof) on the Scheduled Vesting Date as provided herein. Until such delivery,
you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder, of AIG.
 THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN
PARAGRAPH 15. 

3.  Vesting and Payout .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4 and 6, you
shall become vested in the RSUs on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant specified at the end
of this Award Agreement (the    Scheduled Vesting Date   ). Except as provided in Paragraph 6, if your
Employment terminates for any reason prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, your rights in respect of
all of your RSUs shall terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in
respect of such RSUs.

(b)  Payout . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4, 6, 8 and 9,
the Shares underlying the vested RSUs shall be paid promptly after the Scheduled Vesting Date, but
no later than the end of the calendar year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date falls. The Company
may, at its option and subject to the Plan, deliver securities or other property in lieu of all or
any portion of the Shares otherwise payable on the Scheduled Vesting Date. Such payment shall equal
the product of the number of Shares to be delivered on the Scheduled Vesting Date and the Fair
Market Value of one Share of Common Stock on the Scheduled Vesting Date. You shall be deemed the
beneficial owner of the Shares at the close of business on the Scheduled Vesting Date and shall be
entitled to any dividend or distribution that has not already been made with respect to such Shares
if the record date for such dividend or distribution is on or after the close of business on the
Scheduled Vesting Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Scheduled Vesting Date occurs at a
time when you are considered by AIG to be one

of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then, unless the
Committee determines otherwise, payout of the Shares (or securities or other property) may be
deferred by the Company under the circumstances described in Section 409A until the earliest date
that the Company reasonably anticipates that the deduction or payment will be limited or
eliminated.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided your rights in respect of your RSUs have not
previously terminated, the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or any part
thereof) corresponding to your outstanding RSUs shall be paid to the representative of your estate
promptly after your death (but no later than 90 days after your death).

(d)  Delay of Payment . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
payment of RSUs or permit you to elect to defer payment of RSUs, in each case in a manner that
conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code.

4.  Termination of RSUs and Non-Payment of Shares .

(a) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c) and 6, your rights in respect of your outstanding
RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in
respect of such unvested RSUs, if at any time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date your Employment
with the Company terminates for any reason, or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed by the
Company.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as further provided in Paragraph 6,
your rights in respect of all of your RSUs (whether or not vested) shall immediately terminate, and
no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such RSUs, if at any time
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under this Award Agreement or the Plan resolved in
any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 15;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with
the Company or (B) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any
relationship between the Company and any such Client or (C) Solicit any person who is an
employee of the Company to resign from the Company or to apply for or accept employment
with any Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) you fail to certify to AIG, in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date that you have complied, or the
Committee determines that you have failed as of the Scheduled Vesting Date to comply, with
all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement. By accepting the delivery of
Shares (or securities or other property) under this Award Agreement, you shall be

-2- 

deemed to have represented and certified at such time that you have complied with all
the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the Scheduled Vesting Date in respect of any
of your outstanding RSUs occurs, and Shares (or securities or other property) with respect to such
outstanding RSUs would be payable under the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, except
that you have not complied with the conditions or your obligations under Paragraph 4(b)(iv), all of
your rights with respect to your outstanding RSUs shall terminate no later than the Scheduled
Vesting Date for such Shares.

5.  Repayment . If, following the delivery of Shares (or securities or other property),
the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such
delivery were not satisfied, the Company shall be entitled to receive, and you shall be obligated
to pay the Company immediately upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of the Shares
(determined as of the Scheduled Vesting Date) and the amount of securities or other property (to
the extent that any securities or other property was delivered in lieu of Shares) delivered with
respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date, without reduction for any Shares (or securities or other
property) applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such Shares (or
securities or other property).

6.  Disability and Retirement .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b):

(i) if you become subject to Disability following the first anniversary of the Date of
Grant, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to your then
outstanding unvested RSUs (as a result of which any such then unvested outstanding RSUs
shall vest and the Shares (or securities or other property) corresponding to your
outstanding RSUs shall be paid to you promptly after the date you become subject to
Disability, but no later than 90 days thereafter), but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply;

(ii) if you terminate Employment by means of retirement at or after age 65 (   Retire   )
prior to December 31, 20   , the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived only
with respect to a fraction of your then outstanding unvested RSUs, the numerator of which
fraction shall be the number of whole quarters between January 1, 20    and the date of your
Retirement, and the denominator of which fraction shall be four (as a result of which such
fraction of any such then unvested outstanding RSUs shall vest, and Shares (or securities
or other property) corresponding to such fraction of the RSUs shall be paid to you promptly
after the date you Retire, but no later than the end of the calendar year in which such
date falls, but all other unvested outstanding RSUs shall immediately terminate), but all
other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply; and

(iii) if you terminate your Employment by means of early retirement at or after age 55
but before reaching age 65, with the approval of, and subject to any terms and conditions
prescribed by, the Committee in its sole discretion  (    Early Retire   ), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a)

-3- 

shall be waived with respect to a fraction of your then outstanding unvested RSUs, the
numerator of which fraction shall be the number of whole quarters between January 1, 20   
and the date of your Early Retirement, and the denominator of which fraction shall be
twelve (as a result of which such fraction of any such then unvested outstanding RSUs shall
vest, and Shares (or securities or other property) corresponding to such fraction of the
RSUs shall be paid to you promptly after the date you Early Retire, but no later than the
end of the calendar year in which such date falls, but all other unvested outstanding RSUs
shall immediately terminate), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b) or Paragraph 4(c), your rights in
respect of any outstanding RSUs that become vested solely by reason of Paragraph 6(a) shall
terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such
outstanding RSUs if, following your becoming subject to Disability, Retiring or Early Retiring and
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership,
voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise or (ii) associate in any
capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director,
consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

7.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply. Any assignment or delegation in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 7 shall be null and void.

8.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan).

(b) Your rights in respect of your RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required Consent (as defined in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that
the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable (including, without limitation, your
consenting to deductions from your wages, or another arrangement satisfactory to the Committee, to
reimburse the Company for advances made on your behalf to satisfy withholding and other tax
obligations in connection with this Award);  provided  that if such Consent has not been so effected
or obtained as of the latest date provided by this Award Agreement for the delivery of Shares (or
securities or other property) in respect of any RSUs and further delay of delivery is not permitted
in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such RSUs will be forfeited and terminate
notwithstanding any prior vesting.

(c) AIG may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with AIG). AIG may advise the
transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended Shares.

9.  Section 409A .

-4- 

(a) RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject
to Section 409A, and this Award Agreement is intended to, and shall be interpreted, administered
and construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the RSUs. The Committee shall have full
authority to give effect to the intent of this Paragraph 9(a). To the extent necessary to give
effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the
provisions of this Award Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall govern.

(b) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph 9(a), references to the termination of your
Employment with respect to the RSUs shall mean your separation from service with the Company within
the meaning of Section 409A.

(c) Any payment to be made under the RSUs in connection with termination of your Employment
(and any other payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section
409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after termination of your Employment
(or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A.

(d) To the extent necessary to comply with Paragraph 9(a), any securities or other property
that the Company may deliver in respect of the RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery
or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with respect to the Shares
that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects at a later date for this
purpose in accordance with Paragraph 3(d)).

(e) Each payment under the RSUs shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section
409A.

10.  No Rights to Continued Employment . Nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan
shall be construed as giving you any right to continued Employment by the Company or affect any
right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your Employment.

11.  Successors and Assigns of AIG . The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, AIG and its successor entities (as
defined in Section 3.6 of the Plan).

12.  Committee Discretion . Subject to Paragraph 13, the Committee shall have full
discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with
this Award Agreement (including, without limitation, whether you have become subject to
Disability), and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.

13.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
 provided , that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.1(a), 1.3.1(b) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after
your death); and  provided ,  further , that the Committee may not accelerate or postpone the payout of
the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or any
part thereof) to occur at a time other than the applicable time provided for in 

-5- 

this Award
Agreement. Any amendment of
 this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member
of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

14.  Adjustment . Subject to Paragraph 13, the RSUs shall be subject to amendment and
adjustment in accordance with Section 1.6.4 of the Plan.

15.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Company and you, arising out of or relating
to or concerning the Plan or this Award Agreement, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New
York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc. (the    NYSE   ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is
not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the    AAA   ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by you must
first be submitted to the Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the
Committee. This paragraph is subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15(b) and (c) below.

(b)  THE COMPANY AND YOU HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE
OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF
OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR
RESOLVED ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 15(a) OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT.  This includes any suit, action or
proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Company and you
acknowledge that the forum designated by this Paragraph 15(b) has a reasonable relation to the
Plan, this Award Agreement, and to your relationship with the Company. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude the Company from bringing any action, suit or proceeding
in any other court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Paragraph 15.

(c) The agreement by you and the Company as to forum is independent of the law that may be
applied in the action, suit or proceeding and you and the Company agree to such forum even if the
forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law. You and the Company hereby waive, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which you or the Company now or
hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court referred to in Paragraph 15(b). You and the Company undertake not to
commence any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Award
Agreement in any forum other than a forum described in this Paragraph 15. You and (subject to the
last sentence of Paragraph 15(b)) the Company agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any
such court shall be conclusive and binding upon you and the Company.

(d) You irrevocably appoint the Secretary of AIG as your agent for service of process in
connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this
Award Agreement which is not arbitrated pursuant to

-6- 

the provisions of Paragraph 15(a), who shall promptly advise you of any such service of
process.

(e) You hereby agree to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, a
dispute described in this Paragraph 15, except that you may disclose information concerning such
dispute to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute or to your legal counsel
(provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to
the prosecution or defense of the dispute).

(f) You recognize and agree that prior to the grant of this Award you have no right to any
benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the receipt of this Award, you expressly waive
any right to contest the amount of this Award, terms of this Award Agreement, any determination,
action or omission hereunder or under the Plan by the Committee, AIG or the Board, or any amendment
to the Plan or this Award Agreement (other than an amendment to which your consent is expressly
required by Paragraph 13) and you expressly waive any claim related in any way to the Award
including any claim based on any promissory estoppel or other theory in connection with this Award
and your Employment with the Company.

16.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS .

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-7- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. has caused this Award Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By: 

By: 

Recipient:

Number of RSUs:

Date of Grant:

Scheduled Vesting Date:

Receipt

Acknowledged:

Address:

Street 

City,

State

Zip Code 

Social Security No./Local I.D. No.  

-8- 

Glossary of Terms 

Solely for purposes of this award of RSUs, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below. Capitalized terms not defined in this Glossary of Terms shall have the meanings as used or
defined in the applicable Award Agreement or the Plan.

Cause    means (i) your conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo
contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud,
false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery,
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in
clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) your engaging in any
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) your failure to perform your duties to
the Company; (iv) your violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations
issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities
exchange or association of which AIG or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) your
violation of any Company policy concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or
your material violation of any other Company policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) your
engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or
negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company; or (vii) your
engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Company. The determination as to whether    Cause    has
occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the
authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences under the Plan or any Award Agreement of
the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting    Cause  . 

Client    means any client or prospective client of the Company to whom you provided services,
or for whom you transacted business, or whose identity became known to you in connection with your
relationship with or Employment by the Company.

Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity, or (ii)
owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity, that, in either
case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Company is engaged. The activities covered
by the previous sentence include, without limitation, all insurance and re-insurance and insurance
and re-insurance-related activities, asset management, financial product activities (including,
without limitation, derivative activities) and financial services in the United States and abroad.

Disability    means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is
expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 36 months during which you
qualify for income replacement benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan for at least
six months, or, if you do not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which you
are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 36 months.

-9- 

Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including any amendments or
successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance
thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further
administrative guidance.

Solicit      means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

-10- 

</EX-10.67>

<EX-10.68>
 15
 y74794exv10w68.htm
 EX-10.68: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF TIME-VESTED RSU AWARD AGREEMENT WITH THREE-YEAR PRO RATA VESTING AND WITH EARLY RETIREMENT

EX-10.68 

Exhibit 10(68)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
RSU AWARD AGREEMENT 

This award agreement (this    Award Agreement   ) sets forth the terms and conditions of an award
(this    Award   ) of restricted stock units (   RSUs   ) granted to you under the American International
Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement, or in the attached Glossary of Terms, have the meanings as used or
defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The number of RSUs subject to this Award is set forth at the end of this
Award Agreement. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of AIG to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement, one share of Common Stock
(the    Share    or the    Shares    as the context requires) (or securities or other property equal to the
Fair Market Value thereof) on the Scheduled Vesting Date as provided herein. Until such delivery,
you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder, of AIG.
 THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN
PARAGRAPH 15. 

3.  Vesting and Payout .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4 and 6, you
shall become vested in the RSUs on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant specified at the end
of this Award Agreement (the    Scheduled Vesting Date   ). Except as provided in Paragraph 6, if your
Employment terminates for any reason prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, your rights in respect of
all of your RSUs shall terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in
respect of such RSUs.

(b)  Payout . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 4, 6, 8 and 9,
the Shares underlying the vested RSUs shall be paid promptly after the Scheduled Vesting Date, but
no later than the end of the calendar year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date falls. The Company
may, at its option and subject to the Plan, deliver securities or other property in lieu of all or
any portion of the Shares otherwise payable on the Scheduled Vesting Date. Such payment shall equal
the product of the number of Shares to be delivered on the Scheduled Vesting Date and the Fair
Market Value of one Share of Common Stock on the Scheduled Vesting Date. You shall be deemed the
beneficial owner of the Shares at the close of business on the Scheduled Vesting Date and shall be
entitled to any dividend or distribution that has not already been made with respect to such Shares
if the record date for such dividend or distribution is on or after the close of

business on the
Scheduled Vesting Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Scheduled Vesting Date occurs at a
time when you are considered by AIG to be one
of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then, unless the
Committee determines otherwise, payout of the Shares (or securities or other property) may be
deferred by the Company under the circumstances described in Section 409A until the earliest date
that the Company reasonably anticipates that the deduction or payment will not be limited or
eliminated.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided your rights in respect of your RSUs have not
previously terminated, the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or any part
thereof) corresponding to your outstanding RSUs shall be paid to the representative of your estate
promptly after your death (but no later than 90 days after your death).

(d)  Delay of Payment . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
payment of RSUs or permit you to elect to defer payment of RSUs, in each case in a manner that
conforms to the requirements of Section 409A(a)(4) of the Code.

4.  Termination of RSUs and Non-Payment of Shares .

(a) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c) and 6, your rights in respect of your outstanding
RSUs shall immediately terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in
respect of such unvested RSUs, if at any time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date your Employment
with the Company terminates for any reason, or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed by the
Company.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as further provided in Paragraph 6,
your rights in respect of all of your RSUs (whether or not vested) shall immediately terminate, and
no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such RSUs, if at any time
prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under this Award Agreement or the Plan resolved in
any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 15;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with
the Company or (B) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any
relationship between the Company and any such Client or (C) Solicit any person who is an
employee of the Company to resign from the Company or to apply for or accept employment
with any Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) you fail to certify to AIG, in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date that you have complied, or the
Committee determines that you have failed as of the Scheduled Vesting Date to comply, with
all of the terms and

-2- 

conditions of this Award Agreement. By accepting the delivery of
Shares (or
securities or other property) under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have
represented and certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the Scheduled Vesting Date in respect of any
of your outstanding RSUs occurs, and Shares (or securities or other property) with respect to such
outstanding RSUs would be payable under the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, except
that you have not complied with the conditions or your obligations under Paragraph 4(b)(iv), all of
your rights with respect to your outstanding RSUs shall terminate no later than the Scheduled
Vesting Date for such Shares.

5.  Repayment . If, following the delivery of Shares (or securities or other property),
the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such
delivery were not satisfied, the Company shall be entitled to receive, and you shall be obligated
to pay the Company immediately upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of the Shares
(determined as of the Scheduled Vesting Date) and the amount of securities or other property (to
the extent that any securities or other property was delivered in lieu of Shares) delivered with
respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date, without reduction for any Shares (or securities or other
property) applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such Shares (or
securities or other property).

6.  Disability and Retirement .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b):

(i) if you become subject to Disability or terminate Employment by means of retirement
at or after age 65 (   Retire   ), the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your then outstanding unvested RSUs (as a result of which any such then
unvested outstanding RSUs shall vest and the Shares (or securities or other property)
corresponding to your outstanding RSUs shall be paid to you promptly after the date you
become subject to Disability or Retire, but no later than 90 days thereafter (if you become
subject to Disability) or the end of the calendar year in which such date falls (if you
Retire), as applicable), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply; and

(ii) if you terminate employment by means of early retirement at or after age 55 but before
reaching age 65, with the approval of, and subject to any terms and conditions prescribed by, the
Committee in its sole discretion (   Early Retire   ), the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to a fraction of your then outstanding unvested RSUs, the numerator of which
fraction shall be the number of whole months between the Date of Grant and the date of your Early
Retirement, and the denominator of which fraction shall be the number of whole months between the
Date of Grant and the Scheduled Vesting Date (as a result of which such fraction of any such then
unvested outstanding RSUs shall vest, and the Shares (or securities or other property)
corresponding to such fraction of the RSUs shall be paid to you promptly after the date you Early
Retire, but no

-3- 

later than the end of the calendar year in which such date falls, but all other
unvested outstanding RSUs shall immediately terminate), but all other conditions of this
Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b) or Paragraph 4(c), your rights in
respect of any outstanding RSUs that become vested solely by reason of Paragraph 6(a) shall
terminate, and no Shares (or securities or other property) shall be paid in respect of such
outstanding RSUs if, following your becoming subject to Disability, Retiring or Early Retiring, you
(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in,
any Competitive Enterprise or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to,
association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any
Competitive Enterprise.

7.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply. Any assignment or delegation in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 7 shall be null and void.

8.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan).

(b) Your rights in respect of your RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required Consent (as defined in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that
the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable (including, without limitation, your
consenting to deductions from your wages, or another arrangement satisfactory to the Committee, to
reimburse the Company for advances made on your behalf to satisfy withholding and other tax
obligations in connection with this Award);  provided  that if such Consent has not been so effected
or obtained as of the latest date provided by this Award Agreement for the delivery of Shares (or
securities or other property) in respect of any RSUs and further delay of delivery is not permitted
in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such RSUs will be forfeited and terminate
notwithstanding any prior vesting.

(c) AIG may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with AIG). AIG may advise the
transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended Shares.

9.  Section 409A .

(a) RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject
to Section 409A, and this Award Agreement is intended to, and shall be interpreted, administered
and construed to, comply with Section 409A with respect to the RSUs. The Committee shall have full
authority to give effect to the intent of this Paragraph 9(a). To the extent necessary to give
effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the provisions
of this Award Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall govern.

-4- 

(b) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph 9(a), references to the termination of your
Employment with respect to the RSUs shall mean your separation from service with the Company within
the meaning of Section 409A.

(c) Any payment to be made under the RSUs in connection with termination of your Employment
(and any other payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section
409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after termination of your Employment
(or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A.

(d) To the extent necessary to comply with Paragraph 9(a), any securities or other property
that the Company may deliver in respect of the RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery
or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with respect to the Shares
that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects at a later date for this
purpose in accordance with Paragraph 3(d)).

(e) Each payment under the RSUs shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section
409A.

10.  No Rights to Continued Employment . Nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan
shall be construed as giving you any right to continued Employment by the Company or affect any
right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your Employment.

11.  Successors and Assigns of AIG . The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, AIG and its successor entities (as
defined in Section 3.6 of the Plan).

12.  Committee Discretion . Subject to paragraph 13, the Committee shall have full
discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with
this Award Agreement (including, without limitation, whether you have become subject to
Disability), and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.

13.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
 provided , that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.1(a), 1.3.1(b) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after
your death); and  provided ,  further , that the Committee may not accelerate or postpone the payout of
the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or any part thereof) to occur at a time
other than the applicable time provided for in this Award Agreement. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or
persons designated by the Committee.

14.  Adjustment . Subject to Paragraph 13, the RSUs shall be subject to amendment and
adjustment in accordance with Section 1.6.4 of the Plan.

-5- 

15.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Company and you, arising out of or relating
to or concerning the Plan or this Award Agreement, shall be finally settled by arbitration in New
York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc. (the    NYSE   ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is
not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the    AAA   ) in accordance with the
commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by you must
first be submitted to the Committee in accordance with claims procedures determined by the
Committee. This paragraph is subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15(b) and (c) below.

(b)  THE COMPANY AND YOU HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE
OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF
OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR
RESOLVED ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 15(a) OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT.  This includes any suit, action or
proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Company and you
acknowledge that the forum designated by this Paragraph 15(b) has a reasonable relation to the
Plan, this Award Agreement, and to your relationship with the Company. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude the Company from bringing any action, suit or proceeding
in any other court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Paragraph 15.

(c) The agreement by you and the Company as to forum is independent of the law that may be
applied in the action, suit or proceeding and you and the Company agree to such forum even if the
forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law. You and the Company hereby waive, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which you or the Company now or
hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court referred to in Paragraph 15(b). You and the Company undertake not to
commence any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Award
Agreement in any forum other than a forum described in this Paragraph 15. You and (subject to the
last sentence of Paragraph 15(b)) the Company agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any
such court shall be conclusive and binding upon you and the Company.

(d) You irrevocably appoint the Secretary of AIG as your agent for service of process in
connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this
Award Agreement which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 15(a), who shall
promptly advise you of any such service of process.

(e) You hereby agree to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, a
dispute described in this Paragraph 15, except that you may disclose information concerning such
dispute to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute or to your legal counsel
(provided that such counsel

-6- 

agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to
the prosecution or defense of the dispute).

(f) You recognize and agree that prior to the grant of this Award you have no right to any
benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the receipt of this Award, you expressly waive
any right to contest the amount of this Award, terms of this Award Agreement, any determination,
action or omission hereunder or under the Plan by the Committee, AIG or the Board, or any amendment
to the Plan or this Award Agreement (other than an amendment to which your consent is expressly
required by Paragraph 13) and you expressly waive any claim related in any way to the Award
including any claim based on any promissory estoppel or other theory in connection with this Award
and your Employment with the Company.

16.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS .

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-7- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. has caused this Award Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By: 

By: 

Recipient:

Number of RSUs:

Date of Grant:

Scheduled Vesting Date:

Receipt

Acknowledged:

Address:

Street 

City,

State

Zip Code 

Social Security No./Local I.D. No.  

-8- 

Glossary of Terms 

Solely for purposes of this award of RSUs, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below. Capitalized terms not defined in this Glossary of Terms shall have the meanings as used or
defined in the applicable Award Agreement or the Plan.

Cause    means (i) your conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo
contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud,
false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery,
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in
clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) your engaging in any
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) your failure to perform your duties to
the Company; (iv) your violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations
issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities
exchange or association of which AIG or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) your
violation of any Company policy concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or
your material violation of any other Company policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) your
engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or
negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company; or (vii) your
engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Company. The determination as to whether    Cause    has
occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the
authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences under the Plan or any Award Agreement of
the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting    Cause  . 

Client    means any client or prospective client of the Company to whom you provided services,
or for whom you transacted business, or whose identity became known to you in connection with your
relationship with or Employment by the Company.

Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity, or (ii)
owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity, that, in either
case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Company is engaged. The activities covered
by the previous sentence include, without limitation, all insurance and re-insurance and insurance
and re-insurance-related activities, asset management, financial product activities (including,
without limitation, derivative activities) and financial services in the United States and abroad.

Disability    means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is
expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 36 months during which you
qualify for income replacement benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan for at least
six months, or, if you do not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which you
are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 36 months.

-9- 

Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including any amendments or
successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance
thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further
administrative guidance.

Solicit      means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

-10- 

</EX-10.68>

<EX-10.69>
 16
 y74794exv10w69.htm
 EX-10.69: AMENDED AND RESTATED FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR DEFERRED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.69 

Exhibit 10(69)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR DEFERRED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT 

This award agreement (this    Award Agreement   ) sets forth the terms and conditions of an award
(this    Award   ) of $   in deferred stock units (   DSUs   ) granted to you under the American
International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated
from time to time, the    Plan   ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The number of DSUs set forth on the signature page of this Award Agreement
are subject to this Award. Each DSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of AIG to
deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement, one share
of Common Stock (a    Share    or    Shares    as the context requires) (or securities or other property
equal to the Fair Market Value thereof) on the Payment Date as provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor and no rights as a shareholder
of AIG. In the event the calculation of the number of DSUs subject to this Award Agreement results
in fractional shares, the number of Shares shall be rounded down to the next whole Share.  THIS
AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT. 

3.  Payout .

(a)  In General . Except as provided below in this Paragraph 3 and Paragraph 8, the
Shares underlying the DSUs shall be paid, on or promptly after the last Trading Day of the month in
which you cease to provide services to the Company (the    Payment Date   ), but no later than 90 days
after you cease to provide services to the Company. Subject to the Plan, AIG may deliver
securities or other property based on the Fair Market Value in lieu of all or any portion of the
Shares otherwise deliverable on the Payment Date. You shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares
at the close of business on the Payment Date and shall be entitled to any dividend or distribution
that has not already been made with respect to such Shares if the record date for such dividend or
distribution is on or after the close of business on the Payment Date.    Trading Day    means a day
on which the Common Stock trades in the regular way on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the
Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national or
regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is
not then listed on a national or regional securities exchange, on the principal other market on
which the Common Stock is then traded.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this Award Agreement, if
you die prior to the Payment Date, the Shares (or securities or other property in lieu of all or
any portion thereof) corresponding to your

outstanding DSUs shall be paid to the representative of your estate promptly after your death
(but no later than 90 days after your death).

(c)  Delay of Payment . The Board may, in its sole discretion, determine to defer
payment of DSUs or permit you to elect to defer payment of DSUs, in each case in a manner that
conforms to the requirements of Section 409(a)(4) of the Code.

4.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . On the last day of each calendar quarter before the
payout of Shares (or securities or other property in lieu thereof) pursuant to this Award
Agreement, you shall be paid an amount in cash equal to any regular cash dividend payment that
would have been distributed during such quarter in respect of the Shares (or securities or other
property in lieu thereof) not yet delivered.

5.  Non-transferability . Except as may otherwise be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Board, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall
apply. Any assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall be void. The Board
may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your DSUs through a gift for
no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law
or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

6.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan.

(b) Your rights in respect of the DSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full satisfaction
of the Board of any required consents (as defined in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that the Board may
determine to be necessary or advisable;  provided  that if such Consent has not been so effected or
obtained as of the latest date provided by this Award Agreement for the delivery of Shares (or
securities or other property) in respect of any DSUs and further delay of delivery is not permitted
in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, such DSUs will be forfeited and terminate
notwithstanding any prior vesting.

(c) AIG may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement
any legend that the Board determines to be necessary or advisable. AIG may advise the transfer
agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

7.  Section 409A .

(a) DSUs awarded under this Award Agreement are intended to be  deferred compensation  subject
to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including any amendments or successor provisions to
that section, and any

-2- 

regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they may be from
time to time amended or interpreted through further administrative guidance (   Section 409A   ), and
this Award Agreement is intended to, and shall be interpreted, administered and construed to,
comply with Section 409A with respect to the DSUs. The Board shall have full authority to give
effect to the intent of this Paragraph 7(a). To the extent necessary to give effect to this
intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the provisions of this Award
Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall govern.

(b) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph 7(a), (i) references to your ceasing to
provide services to the Company with respect to the DSUs shall mean your separation from service
with the Company within the meaning of Section 409A (which, unless inconsistent with the foregoing,
will mean your ceasing to be a director of the Board), and (ii) the right to payment of dividend
equivalents pursuant to Paragraph 4 shall be treated separately from the right to payment of the
Shares underlying the DSUs for all purposes of Section 409A.

(c) Any payment to be made under the DSUs in connection with termination of your Employment
(and any other payment under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section
409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after termination of your Employment
(or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A.

(d) To the extent necessary to comply with Paragraph 7(a), any securities or other property
that the Company may deliver in respect of the DSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery
or payment beyond the date on which such delivery or payment would occur with respect to the Shares
that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this
purpose in accordance with Paragraph 3(c)).

(e) Each payment under the DSUs shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section
409A.

8.  Successors and Assigns of AIG . The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of AIG and its successors and assigns.

9.  Amendment . The Board reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.1 and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment shall
materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your
consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death), and the
Board may not accelerate or postpone the payout of the Shares (or securities or other property in
lieu of any or all of the Shares) to occur at a time other than the applicable time provided for in
this Award Agreement. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an
authorized member of the Board or any other person or persons authorized by the Board.

-3- 

10.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

11.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-4- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , AIG and you have caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and
delivered.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Recipient:

Number of DSUs:

Date:

Accepted and Agreed:

By:

-5- 

</EX-10.69>

<EX-10.91>
 17
 y74794exv10w91.htm
 EX-10.91: SERIES C PERPETUAL, CONVERTIBLE, PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT

EX-10.91 

Exhibit 10.91

SERIES C PERPETUAL, CONVERTIBLE, PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 
PURCHASE AGREEMENT 

SERIES C PERPETUAL, CONVERTIBLE, PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this
  Agreement  ), dated as of March 1, 2009, between AIG CREDIT FACILITY TRUST, a trust
established for the sole benefit of the United States Treasury (the   Trust  ), and AMERICAN
INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ). In this Agreement,
references to the Trust shall include the Trustees acting in their capacities as such trustees as
the context may require. Reference is made to Article 1 below for the meaning of certain
capitalized terms used herein.

Background 

A. Pursuant to Section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C.   343, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System determined that unusual and exigent circumstances existed
both with respect to the financial condition of the Company and its likely impact on the nation s
economic stability, and the stability of the nation s financial and banking systems, and authorized
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the   FRBNY  ), subject to certain conditions, to
extend credit to the Company pursuant to a credit agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008,
between the Company and the FRBNY (as amended from time to time, the   Credit Agreement  ).

B. The Company is obligated under the Credit Agreement to issue the Shares (as defined below)
to the Trust for the sole benefit of the United States Treasury, and the issuance of the Shares to
the Trust is intended to provide compensation for the assumption of the risks arising from the
Credit Agreement and to reduce those risks.

C. Pursuant to Section 5.11 of the Credit Agreement, the Company and the Trust are entering
into this Agreement because the FRBNY has determined that this Agreement is necessary to effect the
issuance of the Shares.

THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:

Terms and Conditions 

1. DEFINITIONS 

Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in
the Credit Agreement.

As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:

Charter   means the Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended from time to time.

Common Stock   has the meaning set forth in the Certificate of Designations (as defined in Section
3.2 below).

Effective Date   means the date on which this Agreement shall have been executed and delivered by
all of the parties hereto.

Equity Units   means the Equity Units issued by the Company pursuant to the Purchase Contract
Agreement.

Person   means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture,
association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, government or
political subdivision thereof, government agency or instrumentality, or any other entity
whatsoever.

Purchase Contract Agreement   means the Purchase Contract Agreement dated May 16, 2008 between the
Company and The Bank of New York.

Securities Act   means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

Series C Preferred Stock   means the Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock
of the Company, the Certificate of Designations for which is substantially in the form of Exhibit A
hereto.

Series D Preferred Stock   means the Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of
the Company.

Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement   means the Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of
November 25, 2008, between the Company and United States Department of the Treasury.

Underlying Shares   mean shares of Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion of the
Series C Preferred Stock.

SEC   means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.

Trustees   means the trustees of the Trust acting in their capacities as such trustees.

Warrant   means the warrant issued by the Company to the United States Department of the Treasury
concurrently with the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock.

2. PURCHASE OF SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK 

2.1.  Agreement to Sell and Purchase . On the basis of the representations and warranties
contained in this Agreement, on the Closing Date the Company shall issue and sell to the Trust, and
the Trust shall purchase (the   Purchase  ) from the Company, 100,000 (one hundred thousand)
shares of Series C Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the   Shares  ), with an
initial liquidation preference equal to $5 (five dollars) per share ($500,000 (five hundred
thousand dollars) liquidation preference in the aggregate), at the purchase price of $500,000 (five
hundred thousand dollars), with an understanding that additional and independently sufficient
consideration was also furnished by FRBNY in the form of its lending commitment under the Credit
Agreement (the   Purchase Price  ).

2.2.  Payment and Delivery.  Payment of the cash portion of the Purchase Price was made to the
Company by FRBNY at the closing of the Credit Agreement as a credit against a fee payable by the
Company in accordance with Section 4.02(e) of the Credit Agreement. Certificates for the Shares
shall be registered for the sole benefit of the United States Treasury in the name of the Trustees
in their capacities as trustees of the Trust. The certificates evidencing the Shares shall be
delivered to the Trust on the third Business Day immediately succeeding the Effective Date (or
such later date as shall be agreed by the parties hereto) (the   Closing Date  ), with any
stock transfer taxes payable in connection with the transfer

2 

of the Shares to the Trust duly paid.
Such payment and delivery are hereinafter referred to as the   Closing  .

3. CONDITIONS TO PURCHASER S OBLIGATIONS 

The obligation of the Trust to accept delivery of the Shares on the Closing Date is subject to
the following conditions:

3.1. The Trust shall have received on the Closing Date a certificate, dated the Closing Date
and signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive or Senior Vice President or
any Vice President and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, to the effect
that the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement are true and
correct, in all material respects, as of the Closing Date and that the Company has complied, in all
material respects, with all of the agreements and satisfied all of the conditions on its part to be
performed or satisfied hereunder on or before the Closing Date.

3.2. The Company shall have duly adopted and filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
Delaware the Certificate of Designations for the Series C Preferred Stock substantially in the form
of Exhibit A hereto (the   Certificate of Designations  ) and such filing shall have been
accepted.

3.3. The Trust shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of (i) Sullivan   Cromwell
LLP, special counsel for the Company, dated the Closing Date and in form and substance as set forth
in Exhibit B and (ii) Kathleen E. Shannon, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Deputy General
Counsel of the Company, dated the Closing Date and in form and substance as set forth in Exhibit C.

3.4. All corporate and other proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated at
the Closing hereby, and all documents and instruments incident to such transactions, shall be
reasonably satisfactory in substance to the Trust and its counsel.

4. REPRESENTATIONS 

The Company represents and warrants as of the Effective Date and the Closing Date as follows:

4.1.  Organization; Powers . The Company (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has all requisite corporate
power and authority to own its property and assets and to carry on its business, in all material
respects, as now conducted and as proposed to be conducted, (c) is qualified to do business in, and
is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the
failure so to qualify could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect and
(d) has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this
Agreement.

4.2.  Organizational Documents . The Company has made available to the Trust a complete and
correct copy of its Charter and bylaws, each as amended to date (the   Organizational
Documents  ). The Organizational Documents are in full force and effect. The Company is not in
violation of any provision of its Organizational Documents.

4.3.  Authorization . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, including the
issuance and delivery of the Shares and the conversion thereof into the Underlying Shares, (a) have
been duly authorized by all requisite corporate and shareholder

3 

action
(other than the actions contemplated in Sections 6.1, 6.2, 6.3,
6.6, 6.7 (with respect to Board of Director s approval only) and 6.8
(with respect to clause (ii) of the second sentence only)) and (b) will not to the best knowledge
of the Company after due investigation (i) result in the violation by the Company or any Material
Subsidiary of (A) any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation that is applicable to the
Company, any Material Subsidiary or the transactions contemplated hereby, or of the certificate or
articles of incorporation or other constitutive documents or bylaws of the Company or any Material
Subsidiary, (B) any order of any Governmental
Authority or (C) any provision of any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which the
Company or any Material Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them or any of their property is
or may be bound, (ii) be in conflict with, result in a breach of, terminate or constitute (alone or
with notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, or give rise to any right to terminate or
accelerate or to require the prepayment, repurchase or redemption of any obligation under any such
indenture, agreement or other instrument or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien
upon or with respect to any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired by the Company or
any Material Subsidiary, except in the case of clause (b)(i)(A) for any actual or potential
violations disclosed by the Company to the Trust in writing as of the Effective Date and except in
the case of clauses (b)(i), (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) as would not, individually or in the aggregate,
have a Material Adverse Effect or affect the validity of the Series C Preferred Stock.

4.4.  Enforceability.  This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by the
Company and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trust) shall constitute the
valid and legally binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance
with its terms, except that rights to indemnification and contribution may be limited under
applicable law.

4.5.  Valid Issuance . When issued in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Series C
Preferred Stock will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, free and
clear of all liens and preemptive rights. The Underlying Shares will be duly and validly reserved
for issuance immediately after the Company s shareholders approve the Charter Amendment (as defined
in the Certificate of Designations). When issued and delivered in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and the Series C Preferred Stock, such Underlying Shares will be duly authorized,
validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, free and clear of all liens and preemptive rights.

4.6.  Governmental Approvals.  Assuming the accuracy of the Trust s representations and
warranties set out in Section 5.1 and Section 5.2 of this Agreement and its compliance with its
obligations hereunder, to the best knowledge of the Company after due investigation, no action,
consent or approval of, registration or filing with or any other action by any Governmental
Authority is or will be required to be taken, obtained or made by the Company or any Material
Subsidiary in connection with this Agreement, except (a) such as have been made or obtained and are
in full force and effect, (b) such as have been disclosed by the Company to the Trust in writing as
of the Effective Date, (c) the filings and registrations
contemplated by Sections 6.2, 6.6, 7.1 and 7.2
hereof and (d) if the failure to take such action, obtain such consent or approval or register or
file with such Governmental Authority could not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in
the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.

5. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS AND AGREEMENTS OF THE TRUST 

5.1.  Purchase of Restricted Shares . The Trust acknowledges that the Shares and the Underlying
Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act or under any U.S. federal or state
securities laws. The Trust (a) is acquiring the Shares pursuant to an exemption from registration
under the Securities Act and with no present intention to distribute them to any person in
violation of the Securities Act or any applicable U.S. federal or state securities laws, (b) will
not sell or otherwise dispose of any of the Shares or the Underlying Shares, except in compliance
with the registration requirements or exemption provisions of the Securities Act and any applicable
U.S. federal or state securities laws, and (c) including

4 

through such advisors that it may retain
or consult, has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investments
of this type that it is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the Purchase and of making an
informed investment decision.

5.2.  Legends .

(a) The Trust agrees that all certificates or other instruments representing the Series C
Preferred Stock will bear a legend substantially to the following effect:

THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS
SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE
 SECURITIES ACT ), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY OR THE
SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR
PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED,
PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR
UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. 

(b) In addition, the Trust agrees that all certificates or other instruments representing the
Underlying Shares will bear a legend substantially to the following effect:

THE SECURITIES REFERRED TO HEREIN HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE  SECURITIES ACT ), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER
SUCH SECURITIES NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD,
ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE
OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO,
REGISTRATION. 

(c) In the event that any Series C Preferred Stock or Underlying Shares (i) become registered
under the Securities Act or (ii) are eligible, in the opinion of counsel to the holder of Series C
Preferred Stock reasonably satisfactory to the Company, to be transferred without restriction or
any limitation in accordance with Rule 144, the Company shall issue new certificates or other
instruments representing such Series C Preferred Stock or Underlying Shares, which shall not
contain the applicable legends in Sections 5.2(a) and (b) above; provided that the holder of the
Series C Preferred Stock or Underlying Shares, as applicable, surrenders to the Company the
previously issued certificates or other instruments.

6. COVENANTS 

The Company covenants and agrees with the Trust that:

6.1.  Board of Directors Resolutions. 

(a) The Board of Directors of the Company (the   Board of Directors  ) shall adopt
within 45 days of the Effective Date resolutions pursuant to 8 Del. C.   242(b), in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustees, to amend (i) the Charter to reduce the par value
of the Common Stock to $0.000001 per share, and increase the number of authorized shares of Common
Stock to 19 billion (the

5 

Common Stock Amendment Proposal  ), (ii) the Charter to reduce the
par value of the Company s Serial Preferred Stock (as defined in the Charter) to $0.00004 per share
and increase the number of authorized shares of the Company s Serial Preferred Stock to 13 billion
(the   Serial Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal  ), (iii) the Certificate of Designations
such that (1) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock authorized and outstanding upon the
effectiveness of the Serial Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal shall be the Number of Underlying
Shares (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) as of the
effective date of the Serial Preferred
Stock Amendment Proposal, (2) the Conversion Ratio (as defined in the Certificate of Designations)
as of any date shall equal the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the
Number of Outstanding Shares (as defined in the Certificate of
Designations) as of such date by (y) the Number of
Outstanding Shares as of the
effective date of such amendment and (3) the liquidation preference per share of the Series C
Preferred Stock shall be $500,000 divided by the Number of Underlying Shares as of the effective
date of such amendment (the   Series C Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal   and, collectively
with the Common Stock Amendment Proposal and the Serial Preferred
Stock Amendment Proposal, the   Special
Meeting Shareholder Proposals  ), (iv) the Charter (A) to permit the Board of Directors to issue
classes of Serial Preferred Stock that are not of equal rank, such that the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee thereof may, prior to issuance, in the resolution or resolutions
providing for the issue of shares of each particular series, provide whether the shares of such
series rank senior or junior to any other class of Serial Preferred Stock as to the right to
receive dividends and the right to receive payments out of the assets of the Company upon voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and (B) to cause the Series D
Preferred Stock and any other series of Serial Preferred Stock subsequently issued to the United
States Department of the Treasury to rank senior to the Series C Preferred Stock and any other
subsequently issued series of Serial Preferred Stock that is not issued to the United States
Department of the Treasury, so that as a result of these amendments the Series C Preferred Stock
and any subsequently issued series of Serial Preferred Stock that ranks  pari passu  with or junior
to the Series C Preferred Stock would not be entitled to vote on the subsequent creation or
issuance of any such senior Serial Preferred Stock (the   Series D Preferred Stock Amendment
Proposal  ) and (v) the Charter to eliminate any restriction on the pledging of all or
substantially all of the property or assets of the Company (the   Pledging Restrictions
Amendment Proposal   and, collectively with the Common Stock Amendment Proposal, the Serial
Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal, the Series C Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal and the Series
D Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal, the   Charter Amendment Proposals  ).

(b) Pursuant to 8 Del. C.   242(b) the Board of Directors shall, concurrently with the
adoption of the resolutions described in clause (a) above, declare that the Charter Amendment
Proposals are advisable and (i) call a special meeting with respect to the Special Meeting
Shareholder Proposals or direct that the Special Meeting Shareholder Proposals be considered at an
annual meeting of the holders of the Company s capital stock, as applicable, when so directed by
the Trust in accordance with Section 6.2(a) ( provided , that the notice for a special meeting or
annual meeting described in this clause (a) shall not be given until at least 60 days after the
Company s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders) and (ii) direct that the Series D Preferred Stock
Amendment Proposal and the Pledging Restrictions Amendment Proposal (collectively the   General
Meeting Shareholder Proposals  ) be considered at the next annual meeting of the holders of the
Company s capital stock in accordance with Section 6.2(b).

6.2.  Shareholder Vote .

(a) The Trust shall have the right, in its sole discretion, by giving a notice in accordance
with Section 8.3, to cause the Board of Directors, without regard to any subsequent determination
made by the Board of Directors concerning the Special Meeting Shareholder Proposals, to call, give
notice of and hold a special meeting of the holders of the Company s capital stock or, if so
elected by the Trust in the notice from the Trust, direct that the Special Meeting Shareholder
Proposals be considered at the next annual

6 

meeting of the holders of the Company s capital stock
following such notice from the Trust, as applicable ( provided , that the notice for a special
meeting or annual meeting described in this clause (a) shall not be given until at least 60 days
after the Company s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders), with the holders of the Common Stock
voting as a separate class in the case of the Common Stock Amendment Proposal and, if applicable,
the holders of the Company s Serial Preferred Stock voting as a separate class in the case of the
Serial Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal and, if applicable, the holders of the Series C Preferred
Stock voting as a separate class in the case of the Series C Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal, to
vote on, among other things, (i) the Common Stock Amendment Proposal, (ii) Serial Preferred Stock
Amendment Proposal and (iii) the Series C Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal;  provided , that a vote
on the Serial Preferred Stock Amendment Proposal and the Series C Preferred Stock
Amendment Proposal will only be effective if the Common Stock Amendment Proposal is not
approved by the holders of the Common Stock. The Board of Directors shall recommend to the
Company s shareholders that they vote in favor of the Special Meeting Shareholder Proposals. In
the event that the approval of all or any portion of the Special Meeting Shareholder Proposals is
not obtained at such special shareholders  meeting, the Trust shall have the right to direct the
Company to include a proposal to approve (and the Board of Directors shall recommend approval of)
all or such portion of the Special Meeting Shareholder Proposals as the Trust may designate at the
next annual meeting of its shareholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of its shareholders
until such approval is obtained.

(b) At and prior to the next annual meeting of the Company s shareholders following the
Closing Date, the Company shall take all action necessary under all applicable laws and regulations
and the Company s Organizational Documents to effect the General Meeting Shareholder Proposals.
Such actions shall include, without limitation, the Board of Directors  calling, giving notice of
and holding an annual meeting of the holders of the Company s capital stock to vote on, among other
things the General Meeting Shareholder Proposals and without regard to any subsequent determination
made by the Board of Directors concerning the General Meeting Shareholder Proposals. The Board of
Directors shall recommend to the Company s shareholders that they vote in favor of the General
Meeting Shareholder Proposals. In the event that the approval of the General Meeting Shareholder
Proposals is not obtained at such annual shareholders  meeting, the Company shall include a
proposal to approve such proposals at each subsequent annual meeting of its shareholders, or at any
special meeting of the holders of the Company s capital stock called pursuant to clause (a) above,
until such approval is obtained.

(c) In connection with the special shareholders  meeting and each annual shareholders  meeting
described in clause (a) or (b) above, the Company shall prepare (and the Trust will reasonably
cooperate with the Company to prepare) and file with the SEC a preliminary proxy statement
reasonably acceptable to the Trust, shall use its reasonable best efforts to respond to any
comments of the SEC or its staff thereon and to cause a definitive proxy statement related to such
shareholders  meeting to be mailed to the Company s shareholders promptly after clearance thereof
by the SEC. The Company shall prepare the preliminary proxy statement describing the Special
Meeting Shareholder Proposals as promptly as practicable following the Closing Date, but shall not
file it with the SEC unless so directed by the Trust. The Company shall notify the Trust promptly
of the receipt of any comments from the SEC or its staff with respect to the proxy statement and of
any request by the SEC or its staff for amendments or supplements to such proxy statement or for
additional information and will supply the Trust with copies of all correspondence between the
Company or any of its representatives, on the one hand, and the SEC or its staff, on the other
hand, with respect to such proxy statement. The Company shall, at its own expense, use its
reasonable best efforts to solicit proxies for shareholder approval of the Special Meeting
Shareholder Proposals and the General Meeting Shareholder Proposals, including, but not limited to,
selecting and retaining a proxy solicitor. If at any time prior to any such shareholders  meeting
there shall occur any event that is required to be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the
proxy statement, the

7 

Company shall as promptly as practicable prepare and mail to its shareholders
such an amendment or supplement. Each of the Trust and the Company agrees promptly to correct any
information provided by it or on its behalf for use in the proxy statement if and to the extent
that such information shall have become false or misleading in any material respect, and the
Company shall as promptly as practicable prepare and mail to its shareholders an amendment or
supplement to correct such information to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations.
The Company shall consult with the Trust prior to filing any proxy statement, or any amendment or
supplement thereto, and provide the Trust with a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.

(d) None of the information supplied by the Company or any of the subsidiaries of the Company
for inclusion in any proxy statement in connection with any shareholders  meeting of the Company
will, at the date when first mailed to the Company s shareholders and at the time of any
shareholders  meeting, and at the time of any amendment or supplement thereof after mailing,
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in
order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.

6.3.  Governance . The Company and the Board of Directors shall work in good faith with the
Trustees to ensure corporate governance arrangements satisfactory to the Trustees.

6.4.  Regulation . The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all actions
necessary or appropriate to obtain any regulatory approvals, notices, waivers or consents related
to the issuance and acquisition of the Series C Preferred Stock or the conversion thereof into the
Underlying Shares that are reasonably determined by the Company to be material and that have not
been obtained on or prior to the Closing Date and shall assist the Trust in such matters.

6.5.  Takeover Laws.  The Company will take all actions necessary or expedient in order to
exempt the Trust and any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States government and
the Trust s or such other entity s acquisition and ownership of the Series C Preferred Stock and
any Underlying Shares from, and the Trust and any such other entity and such acquisition and
ownership from, (i) the requirements of any applicable  moratorium,   control share,   fair price 
or other anti-takeover laws and regulations of any jurisdiction, including without limitation
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and (ii) any other applicable provision of the
Organizational Documents of the Company or the comparable organizational documents of any
subsidiary of the Company.

6.6.  Additional Issuance of Shares . If a Conversion Date (as defined in the Certificate of
Designations) for any of the Shares occurs prior to the issuance of Common Stock on the Third Stock
Purchase Date (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) for the Equity Units, then the
Company shall, concurrently with each Stock Purchase Date, Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger
Early Settlement Date (each as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement), as applicable, for the
Equity Units following such Conversion Date issue to the Trust or to such other Person as the Trust
may direct a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the excess of (x) the number of shares of
Common Stock the Trust would have received if it had converted such Shares immediately after the
issuance of such shares of Common Stock on such Stock Purchase Date, Early Settlement Date or Cash
Merger Early Settlement Date over (y) the number of shares of Common Stock received upon the
conversion of such Shares by the holder thereof plus the number of shares of Common Stock delivered
to the Trust or its designee under this Section 6.6 as a result of any earlier settlement of such
Equity Units. Any such shares of Common Stock issued to

8 

the Trust shall be registered for the sole
benefit of the United States Treasury in the name of the Trustees in their capacities as Trustees
of the Trust. Any such shares of Common Stock issued to such other Person shall be registered in
the name of such other Person as the Trustees may direct in their capacities as Trustees of the
Trust.

6.7.  Depositary Shares . Upon request by the Trust in connection with a proposed transfer of
the Shares to a third party, the Company shall promptly enter into a depositary arrangement,
pursuant to customary agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trust and with a depositary
reasonably acceptable to the Trust, pursuant to which the Shares may be deposited and depositary
shares, each representing a fraction of a Share or multiple Shares as specified by the Trust, may
be issued. From and after the execution of any such depositary arrangement, and the deposit of any
Shares pursuant thereto, the depositary shares issued pursuant thereto shall be deemed   Series
C Preferred Stock   and, as applicable,   Registrable Securities   for purposes of this
Agreement.

6.8.  Issuance of Securities . So long as the equity ownership of the Trust, determined as the
sum of the number of shares of Common Stock received upon the conversion of the Series C Preferred
Stock and still owned by the Trust and the product of the aggregate number of shares of Series C
Preferred Stock
owned by the Trust and the Conversion Ratio (whether or not shares of Series C Preferred Stock
are then convertible), shall equal or exceed 50% of the Number of Underlying Shares (as adjusted
pursuant to Section 11(G) of the Certificate of Designations), the Company shall not, without the
prior written consent of the Trust, issue or grant (i) any capital stock or equity ownership
interest, including any Participating Security (as defined in the Certificate of Designations);
(ii) any rights, options, warrants or convertible securities exercisable or exchangeable for or
convertible into any capital stock or other equity ownership interest, including any Participating
Security; or (iii) any stock appreciation rights, phantom stock rights, or any other profit
participation rights, or any rights or options to acquire any such rights, in each case of clauses
(i), (ii) and (iii) above, to any Person. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Company shall
be permitted to issue capital stock (i)(x) to satisfy any security or instrument existing on
September 16, 2008 that is exercisable for, convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock, (y)
in respect of equity compensation awards issued in the ordinary course of business under the
Company s Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or the Company s Amended and Restated 2002
Stock Incentive Plan or (z) in respect of any tax-qualified plan approved in the ordinary course of
business by the Board of Directors that meets the requirements of Sections 401(a) or 423 of the
Code and (ii) subsequent to written notice from the Trust that the Company s corporate governance
arrangements are satisfactory to the Trustees (x) in respect of equity compensation awards issued
under any equity compensation plan (including any material amendments thereto) approved by
shareholders after September 16, 2008 in accordance with the shareholder approval requirements of
the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual or (y) in any one year, up to 0.5% of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock pursuant to any other employee benefit plan, employment contract
or similar arrangement that is approved by the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of
the Board of Directors.

7. REGISTRATION RIGHTS 

7.1.  Registration . Section 4.5 of the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement is hereby
incorporated by reference herein with the amendments to such section as provided in Section 7.2 of
this Agreement.

7.2.  Amendments . For purposes of this Agreement the provisions of Section 4.5 of the Series D
Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement that are incorporated by reference herein shall be amended as
follows:

(a)  Investor  shall mean the Trust;

9 

(b)  Registrable Securities  shall, except for purposes of Section 4.5(a)(vi) of the Series D
Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, mean: (A) the Series C Preferred Stock, (B) the Underlying
Shares and (C) any equity securities issued or issuable directly or indirectly with respect to the
securities referred to in the foregoing clauses (A) or (B) by way of conversion, exercise or
exchange thereof or share dividend or share split or in connection with a combination of shares,
recapitalization, reclassification, merger, amalgamation, arrangement, consolidation or other
reorganization. The shares of Series C Preferred Stock and the Underlying Shares shall cease to be
Registrable Securities when (1) they are sold pursuant to Rule 144 or an effective registration
statement under the Securities Act, (2) except as provided in Section 4.5(o) of the Series D
Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, they may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 without limitation
thereunder on volume or manner of sale, (3) they shall have ceased to be outstanding or (4) they
have been sold in a private transaction in which the transferor s rights under this Agreement are
not assigned to the transferee of the securities. No such Registrable Securities may be registered
under more than one registration statement at any one time;

(c) The provisions of Section 4.5 of the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement
applicable to the Warrant shall not apply;

(d)  $200 million  in the eighth line of Section 4.5(a)(ii) of the Series D Preferred Stock
Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  $100 million 

(e)  and (2) not more than three times in any 12-month period  beginning in the twelfth line
of Section 4.5(a)(iii) of the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  and
(2) not more than two times in any 12-month period 

(f) a new parenthetical is added to the end of Section 4.5(a)(vi)(B) of the Series D Preferred
Stock Purchase Agreement so that the end of subclause (B) shall read  (for the purposes of this
subclause (B) only, as each term is defined in the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement) 

(g) a new subclause (C) is added to Section 4.5(a)(vi) and current subclause (C) is changed to
(D). New subclause (C) shall read:  (C) then the Registrable Securities of the Trust and all other
Holders who have received Registrable Securities from the Trust and who have requested inclusion of
Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii) or Section 4.5(a)(iv), as applicable,  pro
rata  on the basis of the aggregate number of such securities or shares owned by each such person,
and 

(h)  members and former members  in the second line of Section 4.5(e) of the Series D
Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  members, former members and trustees (both
individually and in their fiduciary capacities) 

(i)  representatives and Affiliates  in the third line of Section 4.5(g)(i) of the Series D
Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  representatives, trustees (both
individually and in their fiduciary capacities) and Affiliates 

(j)  , joint or several,  in the eighth line of Section 4.5(g)(i) of the Series D Preferred
Stock Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  , joint or several, (x) with respect to the Trustees
and their agents and representatives, relating to, arising out of or in connection with any
registration pursuant to this Agreement or (y) 

(k)  not misleading;  provided  that the Company  in the sixteenth line of Section 4.5(g)(i) of
the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  not misleading. With respect
to clause (x)

10 

above, the Company will not, however, be responsible for any losses, claims, damages,
actions or liabilities (or costs or expenses relating thereto) that are finally judicially
determined to have resulted from the bad faith or gross negligence of any Indemnitee. With respect
to clause (y) above, the Company 

(l)  a liquidation preference or, in the case of Registrable Securities other than Preferred
Stock,  beginning in the third line of Section 4.5(h) of the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase
Agreement shall be deleted and for the purpose of Section 4.5 the market value of the Series C
Preferred Stock shall be the market value of a number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of such shares of Series C Preferred Stock (whether or not shares of Series C Preferred
Stock are then convertible);

(m)  $200 million  in the fourth line of Section 4.5(h) of the Series D Preferred Stock
Purchase Agreement shall be revised to  $100 million 

(n)  , in the case of an underwritten offering of Common Stock or Warrants,  in the fifth line
of Section 4.5(i) of the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement shall be deleted; and

(o)  , in the case of an underwritten offering of Preferred Stock, any preferred stock of the
Company, or, in each case,  beginning in the sixth line of Section 4.5(i) of the Series D Preferred
Stock Purchase Agreement shall be deleted.

7.3.  Consistency.  The Trust agrees that Section 7.1 and Section 7.2 of this Agreement are not
inconsistent with or in conflict with Section 4.5 of the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase
Agreement.

8. MISCELLANEOUS 

8.1.  Amendments; Waivers . This Agreement may be waived or amended solely by a writing
executed by all of the parties hereto. In no event shall any rights granted hereunder prevent the
parties hereto from waiving or amending in any manner whatsoever the covenants of the Company
hereunder.

8.2.   Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Venue or Inconvenient Forum   . This Agreement, and the rights
and obligations of the parties hereunder, shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in
accordance with, United States federal law and not the law of any State. To the extent that a
court looks to the laws of any State to determine or define the United States federal law, it is
the intention of the parties hereto that such court shall look only to the laws of the State of New
York without regard to the rules of conflicts of laws. The Series C Preferred Stock shall be
governed as set forth in the terms thereof. The parties agree that the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any claims arising
under this Agreement, including claims for enforcement of the Agreement. Each party hereby waives,
to the extent permitted by applicable law, any objection to venue or any defense of inconvenient
forum or any personal or subject matter jurisdictional defense in connection with such proceedings
in such court. 

8.3.  Notices . Any notice which any party hereto may give to the other hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be given by hand delivery, first class registered mail, or overnight courier
service, or by facsimile transmission confirmed by one of the aforesaid methods, sent,

11 

if to the Company:

American International Group, Inc. 
70 Pine Street, New York, New York 10270 
Attention: General Counsel 
Facsimile: (212) 785-2175 
Telephone: (212) 770-7000

with a copy to:

Sullivan   Cromwell LLP 
125 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004 
Attention: Robert W. Reeder III, Michael M. Wiseman 
Facsimile: (212) 558-3588 
Telephone: (212) 558-4000

if to the Trust:

AIG Credit Facility Trust 
c/o Kevin F. Barnard 
Arnold   Porter LLP 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Facsimile : (212) 715-1399 
Telephone: (212) 715-1000

with copies to the Trustees, to the addresses and facsimile numbers that each 
Trustee has provided to the Company in writing on the Effective Date,

or to such other address and facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose
of notices to the other party. All notices hereunder shall be effective upon receipt.

8.4.  Waiver of Jury Trial.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST
EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. EACH PARTY
HERETO CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED,
EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO
ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER.

8.5.  Business Day . To the extent that any deadline or date of performance of any right or
obligation set forth herein shall fall on a day other than a Business Day, then such deadline or
date of performance shall automatically be extended to the next succeeding Business Day.

8.6.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement, together with the Certificate of Designations,
constitutes the entire contract between the parties relative to the subject matter hereof. Any
other previous agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof is superseded
by this Agreement, together with the Certificate of Designations. Nothing in this Agreement,
together with the Certificate of Designations,

12 

expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any
Person (other than the parties hereto and thereto, their respective successors and assigns
permitted hereunder) any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this
Agreement, together with the Certificate of Designations.

8.7.  Remedies . Each of the parties hereto acknowledges and agrees that in the event of any
breach of this Agreement, each non-breaching party would be irreparably and immediately harmed and
could not be made whole by monetary damages. It is accordingly agreed that the parties hereto (a)
will, to the extent permitted by law, waive, in any action for specific performance, the defense of
adequacy of a remedy at law and (b) shall, to the extent permitted by law, be entitled, in addition
to any other remedy to which they may be entitled at law or in equity, to an order compelling
specific performance of this Agreement in any action instituted in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York.

8.8.  No Personal Liability by Trustees . It is expressly understood and agreed by the parties
hereto that this Agreement is being executed and delivered by the Trustees not individually or
personally but solely in their capacities as Trustees in the exercise of the powers and authority
conferred and vested in them as such Trustees, and under no circumstances shall any Trustee or
former Trustee have any personal liability in the Trustee s individual capacity in connection with
this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby.

8.9.  Severability . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained in this
Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then to the extent
permitted by applicable law, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions
contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby (it being understood that the
invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not in and of itself affect
the validity of such provision in any other jurisdiction). The parties shall endeavor in good-faith
negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the
economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provisions.

8.10.  Assignment . Neither this Agreement nor any right, remedy, obligation or liability
arising hereunder or by reason hereof shall be assignable or delegable by any party hereto without
the prior written consent of the other party, and any attempt to assign or delegate any right,
remedy, obligation or liability hereunder without such consent shall be void. Notwithstanding the
foregoing the Trust may, without the Company s consent, transfer or assign (i) all or any part of
its rights and remedies under Sections 6.2 and 6.6 of this Agreement to any third party and (ii)
all or any part of its rights and remedies under Sections 7.1 and 7.2 of this Agreement as
permitted by such Sections.

Signature Page Follows 

13 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date set forth
in the first paragraph hereof.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:   

  /s/ Edward
M. Liddy 

Name:   
      Edward M. Liddy 

Title:   
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

AIG CREDIT FACILITY TRUST 

By:   

  /s/ Jill
M. Considine 

Name:   
     Jill M. Considine 

Title:   
     Trustee  

By:   

  /s/ Chester
B. Feldberg 

Name:   
     Chester B. Feldberg 

Title:   
     Trustee  

By:   

  /s/ Douglas
L. Foshee 

Name:   
     Douglas L. Foshee 

Title:   
     Trustee  

Signature Page to Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement 

14 

</EX-10.91>

<EX-10.92>
 18
 y74794exv10w92.htm
 EX-10.92: LETTER AGREEMENT

EX-10.92 

Exhibit 10(92) 

The undersigned hereby confirm that they have reached an agreement in principle consistent
with the annexed term sheet.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL 

THE TREASURY 

GROUP, INC. 

By:

/s/ Neel Kashkari

By:

/s/ Edward M. Liddy 

Neel Kashkari

Edward M. Liddy 

Interim Assistant Secretary

Chairman and Chief Executive 

For Financial Stability

Officer 

Dated: March 1, 2009

Annex 

Term Sheet for Exchange of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock for Series E
Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and Issuance of Additional Preferred Stock 

Attached  

Term Sheet 

Exchange of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock for Series E
Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock   

The
Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the
  Series D Preferred Stock  ) of American
International Group, Inc. (  AIG  ) issued to the
United States Department of the Treasury (  UST  ) on
November 25, 2008 shall
be exchanged for Series E Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the   Series E
Preferred Stock  ) of AIG, with the following changes to the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock:

Dividends: 

Holders of Series E Preferred Stock
will be entitled to receive, only
when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors of AIG or a duly
authorized committee thereof,
non-cumulative cash dividends on the
liquidation preference at a rate of
10% per annum. Declared dividends
will be payable quarterly in arrears
on February 1, May 1, August 1 and
November 1 of each year. 

Dividends on the Series E Preferred
Stock will not be entitled to receive any
dividends not declared by the Board
of Directors of AIG or a duly
authorized committee thereof and no
interest, or sum of money in lieu of
interest, will be payable in respect
of any dividend not so declared. 

Exchange Ratio: 

The aggregate liquidation preference
of the Series E Preferred Stock will
be equal to the sum of the aggregate
liquidation preference of the Series
D Preferred Stock and the amount of
the accrued and unpaid dividends
under the Series D Preferred Stock. 

Voting: 

If dividends on the Series E
Preferred Stock are not paid in full
for four dividend periods, whether
or not consecutive, the Series E
Preferred Stock will have the right
to elect the greater of two
directors and a number of directors
(rounded upward) equal to 20% of the
total number of directors after
giving effect to such election. The
right to elect directors will end,
and such two directors shall resign,
if such directors were elected, when
full dividends have been paid for
four consecutive dividend periods
following commencement of such
right. 

Replacement Capital Covenant: 

AIG will enter into a Replacement
Capital Covenant in favor
of the holders of the covered debt pursuant to
which AIG will agree that prior to
the third anniversary of the
issuance of the Series E Preferred
Stock it will not repay, redeem or
purchase, and no subsidiary of AIG
will purchase, all or any part of
the Series E Preferred Stock except
with the proceeds obtained from the
issuance by AIG or any such
subsidiary of certain replacement
capital securities. 

Replacement Capital Intention: 

AIG intends that commencing on the
third anniversary of the issuance of
the Series E Preferred Stock it will
not repay, redeem or purchase, nor
will any subsidiary of AIG purchase,
all or any part of the Series E
Preferred Stock except with the
proceeds from the issuance by AIG or
any such subsidiary of securities
for which AIG will receive equity
credit, at the time of sale or
issuance, that is, in the aggregate,
equal to or greater than the equity
credit attributed to the Series E
Preferred Stock redeemed at the time
of such early redemption. 

Executive Compensation: 

Until such time as no obligation of
AIG arising from financial
assistance provided under the
Troubled Asset Relief Program
remains outstanding (excluding any
period during which the federal
government only holds warrants to
purchase common stock of AIG), AIG
shall comply in all respects with
Section 111 of the Emergency
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008,
as amended, as implemented by any
guidance or regulations issued
and/or to be issued thereunder
including any amendments to the
guidelines implementing the Programs
of Systemically Significant Failing
Institutions. 

Issuance of Additional Preferred Stock  

Issuer: 

AIG 

Initial Holder: 

UST 

Security: 

Shares of Series F Preferred Stock to be issued from
time to time at the request of
AIG. 1  

Issue Price: 

Upon each drawdown the aggregate
liquidation preference of the shares of the Series F Preferred
Stock will increase by either an amount equal to the amount of such
drawdown or by the aggregate liquidation preference of the shares of
the Series F Preferred Stock issued on the closing date
of such drawdown. 

Capacity: 

Up to $30 billion aggregate liquidation preference. 

Duration of Facility: 

5 years beginning on
commencement date of the facility. 

1  
       
     The terms of the Series F Preferred Stock will be same
as the terms of the Series E Preferred Stock except that the Series F Preferred
Stock will not be subject to the Replacement Capital Covenant or the
Replacement Capital Intention. 

2 

Warrants: 

The UST will receive a warrant ( Warrant ) to purchase
a number of shares of common stock of AIG ( Common
Stock ) equal to 1% of the issued and outstanding
shares of Common Stock on the commencement date of the
facility. The initial exercise price for the Warrant
shall be $2.50 per share of Common Stock (representing
the par value of the Common Stock on the commencement
date of the facility), subject to customary
anti-dilution adjustments; provided that the initial
exercise price per share of Common Stock shall be
adjusted to the par value per share of the Common Stock
following the amendments to AIG s Restated Certificate
of Incorporation contemplated by the terms of the
Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating
Preferred Stock of AIG. The Warrant shall be net share
settled or, if consented to by AIG and the UST, on a
full physical basis. 

Conditions
to Commencement: 

On the commencement date of the facility AIG shall: 

- make representations and warranties essentially in
the form as set forth in the following sections of the
Series D Preferred Stock Securities Purchase Agreement: Section 2.2(a) (With respect to the incorporation and
good standing of AIG), 2.2(b) (Capitalization), 2.2(c)
(Preferred Stock), 2.2(d) (The Warrant and Warrant
Shares) and 2.2(e)(i) (Authorization, Enforceability);
and 

- - deliver written opinions from counsel to AIG (which
may be internal counsel) comparable to those delivered
at the closing of the Series D Preferred Stock
offering. 

Executive  
Compensation: 

Until such time as no obligation of AIG arising from
financial assistance provided under the Troubled Asset
Relief Program remains outstanding (excluding any
period during which the federal government only holds
warrants to purchase common stock of AIG), AIG shall
comply in all respects with Section 111 of the
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as
amended, as implemented by any guidance or regulations
issued and/or to be issued thereunder including any
amendments to the guidelines implementing the Programs
of Systemically Significant Failing Institutions. 

3 

Conditions
to Closing of Each
Drawdown: 

As a condition to the closing of each drawdown: 

- AIG shall not be the debtor in a pending case under
Title 11, United States Code;

- the AIG Credit Facility Trust (or any successor
entity established for the benefit of the United States
Treasury) shall  beneficially own  more than 50% of the
voting power of the aggregate voting power of AIG s
voting securities at the time of such drawdown.
 Beneficially owns  is as defined in Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;

- AIG shall deliver a certificate signed on behalf of
AIG by a senior executive officer certifying to the
effect that the representations and warranties made on
the commencement date are true and correct in all
material respects on and as of such closing date; and

- AIG shall deliver certificates in proper form or,
with the prior consent of UST, evidence of shares in
book-entry form, evidencing the shares of the Series F
Preferred Stock to be issued on such closing date to
UST or its designee.

- AIG shall duly execute the relevant warrant and
deliver such executed warrant to UST or its
designee(s). 

4 

</EX-10.92>

<EX-10.93>
 19
 y74794exv10w93.htm
 EX-10.93: SUPPORT AGREEMENT

EX-10.93 

Exhibit
10(93) 

EXECUTION COPY

SUPPORT AGREEMENT 

AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ), dated as of July 10, 2008 between AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL
GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (  AIG  ), and AMERICAN GENERAL FINANCE CORPORATION, an
Indiana corporation (  AGFC  ).

W I T N E S S E T H: 

WHEREAS, AIG owns as of the date hereof indirectly all of the issued and outstanding common
stock of AGFC; and

WHEREAS, AGFC desires to enter into the AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement (as defined below) which
provides for borrowings by AGFC from time to time as provided therein; and

WHEREAS, in connection therewith, AIG desires to take certain actions to maintain the
financial condition of AGFC as hereinafter set forth; and

WHEREAS, the corporate interests of AIG will be furthered by its entering into this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE, AGFC and AIG hereby agree as follows:

1.  Definitions.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings
specified below:

Adjusted Debt   shall mean, at any time, the sum of short term debt and long term debt
of AGFC and its subsidiaries as shown on AGFC s consolidated balance sheet, less the sum of (x) the
amount of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents as shown on AGFC s consolidated balance sheet in
excess of $250,000,000 and (y) (but only to the extent included in such debt) the amount of hybrid
debt then outstanding that is afforded equity credit as disclosed in AGFC s most recently filed
Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Adjusted Tangible Leverage Ratio   shall mean, at any time, the ratio of (i) Adjusted
Debt to (ii) Adjusted Tangible Net Worth.

Adjusted Tangible Net Worth   shall mean, at any time, Consolidated Net Worth, less
the sum of the total amount of goodwill, and other intangible assets, all determined in accordance
with GAAP, plus (without duplication) the amount of hybrid debt then outstanding that is afforded
equity credit as disclosed in AGFC s most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q.

AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement   shall mean the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of
July 10, 2008, by and between AGFC and American General Finance, Inc., as borrowers, and Citibank,
N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, as amended

Support Agreement 

-2- 
 and in effect from time to time.

Consolidated Net Worth   shall mean, at any time, AGFC s total shareholders  equity
 minus  the amount of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss as shown on AGFC s
consolidated balance sheet.

GAAP   shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time
in the United States, applied on a consistent basis.

2.  Support Undertakings. 

A. AIG will cause AGFC at all times to maintain Consolidated Net Worth of at least
$2,200,000,000.

B. AIG will cause AGFC at the end of each fiscal quarter to maintain the Adjusted Tangible
Leverage Ratio of less than or equal to 8.00 to 1.00;  provided  that if the Adjusted
Tangible Leverage Ratio at the end of any fiscal quarter shall be greater than 8.00 to 1.00, AIG
shall be in compliance with its undertaking with respect to such fiscal quarter under this
paragraph 2.B if, not later than (a) in the case of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal
year of AGFC, the earlier of (i) the filing by AGFC with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(  SEC  ) of a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for such fiscal quarter and (ii) 45 days after
the end of such fiscal quarter or (b) in the case of each fiscal year of AGFC, the earlier of (i)
the filing by AGFC with the SEC of an Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year and (ii) 90
days after the end of such fiscal year, AIG will cause a capital contribution to be made to AGFC or
otherwise cause AGFC to take actions such that if such capital contribution had been made or such
actions had been taken as of the last day of such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as applicable,
together with any other capital contributions or actions, if any, made or taken subsequent to the
end of such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as applicable, such Adjusted Tangible Leverage Ratio
would have been less than or equal to 8.00 to 1.00.

3.  No Guarantee . This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing herein
contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall be deemed to constitute, a direct or
indirect guarantee by AIG of the payment of any indebtedness or other obligation or liability, of
any kind or character whatsoever, of AGFC or its subsidiaries, if any.

4.  Representations and Warranties . AIG represents and warrants that: AIG has duly authorized,
executed and delivered this Agreement; neither the execution and delivery hereof nor the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby nor the compliance with the terms hereof (i)
does or will contravene (1) AIG s restated certificate of incorporation or by-laws or (2) any other
law or regulation then applicable to or binding on AIG, (ii) does or will contravene or result in
any breach or constitute any default under any agreement or instrument to which AIG is a party or
by which it or any of its properties may be bound, or (iii) does or will require the consent or
approval of any person or entity which has not previously been obtained, in the case of each of
(i), (ii) and (iii) above, in a manner that would materially impair AIG s ability to perform its
obligations under this Agreement; and this Agreement constitutes the legally valid and binding
obligation of AIG, enforceable against AIG (and its successors and assigns) in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,

Support Agreement 

-3- 

 moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors  rights generally and general principles of
equity.

5.  Waiver . AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of AGFC in asserting or
enforceing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands under this Agreement.

6.  Modification, Amendment and Termination.  This Agreement may only be modified or amended so
as to reduce AIG s obligations hereunder with the consent of the Majority Banks (as defined in the
AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement), and this Agreement shall terminate automatically upon: (i) the
earlier of (x) the Commitment Termination Date (as defined in the AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement) or
(y) the termination of the Commitments (as defined in the AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement)
thereunder;  and  (ii) any of the following: (x) payment in full of the loans, if any,
outstanding and all other amounts owing under the AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement, (y) AIG providing
an irrevocable and unconditional written guarantee of such payment in favor of the lenders party to
the AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement or (z) consent in writing of the Majority Banks to such
termination.

7.  Successors . The agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon, and inure to
the mutual benefit of, AIG and AGFC and their respective successors.

8.  Third Party Beneficiaries.  AIG and AGFC hereby acknowledge that the agreements herein are
intended to benefit the Banks (as defined in the AGFC 364-Day Credit Agreement).

9.  Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
law of the State of New York.

Support Agreement 

-4- 

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement as of
the day and year first above written.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Robert A. Gender

Name:   
     Robert A. Gender  

Title:   
     Vice President and Treasurer  

AMERICAN GENERAL FINANCE CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Donald R. Breivogel ,Jr.

Name:   
     Donald R. Breivogel, Jr.  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

Support Agreement 

</EX-10.93>

<EX-12>
 20
 y74794exv12.htm
 EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 12  

Computation
    of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

(a)   

Excludes undistributed earnings (loss) from equity method
    investments.  

(b)   

The proportion considered representative of the interest
    factor.  

(c)   

Earnings were insufficient to cover total fixed charges and
    total fixed charges and preferred stock dividends by
    $108,788   million and $109,188   million,
    respectively, for 2008. The coverage deficiency for total fixed
    charges and total fixed charges and preferred stock dividends
    excluding interest credited to GIC and GIA policy and contract
    holders was $106,296 million and $106,696   million
    respectively, for 2008.  

The secondary ratio is disclosed for the convenience of fixed
    income investors and the rating agencies that serve them and is
    more comparable to the ratios disclosed by all issuers of fixed
    income securities. The secondary ratio removes interest credited
    to guaranteed investment contract (GIC) policyholders and
    guaranteed investment agreement (GIA) contractholders. Such
    interest expenses are also removed from earnings used in this
    calculation. GICs and GIAs are entered into by AIG s
    insurance subsidiaries, principally SunAmerica Life Insurance
    Company and AIG Financial Products Corp. and its subsidiaries,
    respectively. The proceeds from GICs and GIAs are invested in a
    diversified portfolio of securities, primarily investment grade
    bonds. The assets acquired yield rates greater than the rates on
    the related policyholders obligation or contract, with the
    intent of earning a profit from the spread.

346    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 21
 y74794exv21.htm
 EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 21  

Subsidiaries
    of Registrant  

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

American International Group, Inc. (2) 

Delaware

(3) 

AIG Capital Corporation

Delaware

100

AIG Capital India Private Limited

India

99.99

(4) 

AIG Global Asset Management Company (India) Private Limited

India

99

(5) 

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Bank Polska S.A. 

Poland

99.92

AIG Credit S.A. 

Poland

100

Compania Financiera Argentina S.A. 

Argentina

100

AIG Credit Corp. 

Delaware

100

A.I. Credit Consumer Discount Company

Pennsylvania

100

A.I. Credit Corp. 

New Hampshire

100

AICCO, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AICCO, Inc. 

California

100

AIG Credit Corp. of Canada

Canada

100

Imperial Premium Funding, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Equipment Finance Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance Company, Canada

Canada

100

AIG Rail Services, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Finance Holdings, Inc. 

New York

100

AIG Finance (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

100

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp. 

Delaware

100

AIG Asset Management Services, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Capital Partners, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Equity Sales Corp. 

New York

100

AIG Global Investment Corp. 

New Jersey

100

AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp. 

Delaware

100

AIG Securities Lending Corp. 

Delaware

100

Brazos Capital Management, L.P. 

Delaware

100

American General Finance, Inc. 

Indiana

100

American General Auto Finance, Inc. 

Delaware

100

American General Finance Corporation

Indiana

100

Merit Life Insurance Co. 

Indiana

100

MorEquity, Inc. 

Nevada

100

Wilmington Finance, Inc. 

Delaware

100

Ocean Finance and Mortgages Limited

England

100

Yosemite Insurance Company

Indiana

100

CommoLoCo, Inc. 

Puerto Rico

100

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    347 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

American General Financial Services of Alabama, Inc. 

Delaware

100

International Lease Finance Corporation

California

67.23

(6) 

AIG Federal Savings Bank

USA

100

AIG Financial Advisor Services, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Global Investment (Luxembourg) S.A. 

Luxembourg

100

AIG Financial Products Corp. 

Delaware

100

AIG Matched Funding Corp. 

Delaware

100

Banque AIG S.A. 

France

90

(7) 

AIG Funding, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Global Trade   Political Risk Insurance Company

New Jersey

100

AIG Israel Insurance Company Ltd. 

Israel

50.01

AIG Kazakhstan Insurance Company

Kazakhstan

60

AIG Life Holdings (International) LLC

Delaware

100

AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 

Japan

100

American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd. 

Bermuda

100

AIG Edison Life Insurance Company

Japan

90

(8) 

American International Assurance Company, Limited

Hong Kong

100

American International Assurance Company (Australia) Limited

Australia

100

American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited

Bermuda

100

AIG Life Insurance (Vietnam) Company Limited

Vietnam

100

Tata AIG Life Insurance Company Limited

India

26

Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Limited

Taiwan

97.57

AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. 

Texas

100

AGC Life Insurance Company

Missouri

100

AIG Annuity Insurance Company

Texas

100

AIG Life Holdings (Canada), ULC

Canada

100

AIG Assurance Canada

Canada

100

AIG Life Insurance Company of Canada*

Canada

100

AIG Life Insurance Company

Delaware

100

AIG Life of Bermuda, Ltd. 

Bermuda

100

American General Bancassurance Services, Inc. 

Illinois

100

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company

Tennessee

100

Volunteer Vermont Holdings, LLC

Vermont

100

American General Life Insurance Company

Texas

100

AIG Enterprise Services, LLC

Delaware

100

American General Annuity Service Corporation

Texas

100

American General Life Companies, LLC

Delaware

100

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company

Texas

100

AIG Retirement Services Company

Texas

100

American General Property Insurance Company

Tennessee

100

American General Property Insurance Company of Florida

Florida

100

American International Life Assurance Company of New York

New York

100

348    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York

New York

100

American General Assurance Company

Illinois

100

American General Indemnity Company

Illinois

100

American General Investment Management Corporation

Delaware

100

American General Realty Investment Corporation

Texas

100

Knickerbocker Corporation

Texas

100

AIG Life Insurance Company (Switzerland) Ltd. 

Switzerland

100

AIG Liquidity Corp. 

Delaware

100

AIG Privat Bank AG*

Switzerland

100

AIG Property Casualty Group, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Commercial Insurance Group, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Aviation, Inc. 

Georgia

100

AIG Casualty Company

Pennsylvania

100

AIG Commercial Insurance Agency, Inc. 

New Jersey

100

AIG Commercial Insurance Company of Canada

Canada

100

AIG Risk Management, Inc. 

New York

100

American Home Assurance Company

New York

100

AIG General Insurance (Malaysia) Berhad

Malaysia

100

AIG Hawaii Insurance Company, Inc. 

Hawaii

100

American Pacific Insurance Company, Inc. 

Hawaii

100

American International Realty Corp. 

Delaware

31.5

(9) 

Pine Street Real Estate Holdings Corp. 

New Hampshire

31.47

(10) 

Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware

33.24

(11) 

Transatlantic Reinsurance Company

New York

100

Putnam Reinsurance Company

New York

100

Trans Re Zurich

Switzerland

100

Audubon Insurance Company

Louisiana

100

Agency Management Corporation

Louisiana

100

The Gulf Agency, Inc. 

Alabama

100

Audubon Indemnity Company

Mississippi

100

Commerce and Industry Insurance Company

New York

100

American International Insurance Company

New York

75

(12) 

AIG Advantage Insurance Company

Minnesota

100

American International Insurance Company of California,
    Inc. 

California

100

American International Insurance Company of New Jersey

New Jersey

100

The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania

100

Landmark Insurance Company

California

100

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa

Pennsylvania

100

AIG Domestic Claims, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Excess Liability Insurance Company Ltd. 

Delaware

100

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    349 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

AIG Excess Liability Insurance International Limited

Ireland

100

American International Specialty Lines Insurance Company

Illinois

70

(13) 

Lexington Insurance Company

Delaware

70

(14) 

AIG Centennial Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

AIG Auto Insurance Company of New Jersey

New Jersey

100

AIG Preferred Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

AIG Premier Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

AIG Indemnity Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

JI Accident   Fire Insurance Company, Ltd. 

Japan

50

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Louisiana

Louisiana

100

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Vermont

Vermont

100

21st Century Insurance Group

Delaware

32

(15) 

21st Century Casualty Company

California

100

21st Century Insurance Company

California

100

21st Century Insurance Company of the Southwest

Texas

100

United Guaranty Corporation

North Carolina

45.88

( 16) 

A.I.G. Mortgage Holdings Israel, Ltd. 

Israel

100

E.M.I.   Ezer Mortgage Insurance Company Ltd. 

Israel

100

AIG United Guaranty Agenzia di Assicurazione S.R.L

Italy

100

AIG United Guaranty Insurance (Asia) Limited

Hong Kong

100

AIG United Guaranty Mexico, S.A. 

Mexico

100

AIG United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company Canada

Canada

100

AIG United Guaranty Re Limited

Ireland

100

United Guaranty Insurance Company

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company of North Carolina

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Partners Insurance Company

Vermont

100

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company

North Carolina

75.03

(17) 

United Guaranty Credit Insurance Company

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Mortgage Indemnity Company

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina

North Carolina

100

United Guaranty Services, Inc. 

North Carolina

100

New Hampshire Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

American International Pacific Insurance Company

Colorado

100

American International South Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

Granite State Insurance Company

Pennsylvania

100

Illinois National Insurance Co. 

Illinois

100

New Hampshire Indemnity Company, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

100

350    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

AIG National Insurance Company, Inc. 

New York

100

New Hampshire Insurance Services, Inc. 

New Hampshire

100

Risk Specialists Companies, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Marketing, Inc. 

Delaware

100

American International Insurance Company of Delaware

Delaware

100

Hawaii Insurance Consultants, Ltd. 

Hawaii

100

HSB Group, Inc.*

Delaware

100

The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company

Connecticut

100

The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company of
    Connecticut

Connecticut

100

HSB Engineering Insurance Limited

England

100

The Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company of Canada

Canada

100

AIG Retirement Services, Inc. 

Delaware

100

SunAmerica Life Insurance Company

Arizona

100

AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company

Arizona

100

AIG SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. 

Delaware

100

SunAmerica Capital Services, Inc. 

Delaware

100

SunAmerica Investments, Inc. 

Georgia

100

AIG Advisor Group, Inc. 

Maryland

100

SagePoint Financial Advisors, Inc. 

Delaware

100

Advantage Capital Corporation

New York

100

American General Securities Incorporated

Texas

100

Financial Service Corporation

Delaware

100

FSC Securities Corporation

Delaware

100

Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. 

Delaware

100

First SunAmerica Life Insurance Company

New York

100

AIG Global Services, Inc. 

New Hampshire

100

AIG Trading Group Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG International Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIU Holdings LLC

Delaware

100

AIG Central Europe   CIS Insurance Holdings Corporation

Delaware

100

AIG Bulgaria Insurance Company EAD

Bulgaria

100

AIG Czech Republic pojistovna, a.s

Czech Republic

100

AIG Egypt Insurance Company S.A.E. 

Egypt

94.98

AIG Memsa Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Hayleys Investment Holdings (Private) Ltd. 

Sri Lanka

80

Hayleys AIG Insurance Company Limited

Sri Lanka

100

AIG Iraq, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Lebanon S.A.L

Lebanon

100

AIG Libya, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Sigorta A.S

Turkey

100

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

India

26

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    351 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

AIU Africa Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware

100

AIG Kenya Insurance Company Limited

Kenya

66.67

AIU Insurance Company

New York

100

AIG General Insurance Company China Limited

China

100

AIG General Insurance (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan

100

American International Underwriters Corporation

New York

100

AIG Takaful-Enaya B.S.C.(c)

Bahrain

100

American International Insurance Company of Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

100

Arabian American Insurance Company (Bahrain) E.C

Bahrain

100

La Meridional Compania Argentina de Seguros S.A. 

Argentina

100

La Seguridad de Centroamerica, Compania de Seguros
    S.A. 

Guatemala

100

Richmond Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda

100

Underwriters Adjustment Company, Inc. 

Panama

100

American International Underwriters Overseas, Ltd. 

Bermuda

100

A.I.G. Colombia Seguros Generales S.A. 

Colombia

94

(18) 

AIG Brasil Companhia de Seguros S.A. 

Brazil

98.2

(19) 

AIG Europe, S.A. 

France

100

(20) 

AIG Ireland Limited

Ireland

100

AIG General Insurance (Thailand) Ltd. 

Thailand

100

AIG General Insurance (Vietnam) Company Limited

Vietnam

100

AIG MEMSA Insurance Company Limited

United Arab Emirates

100

AIG UK Holdings Limited

England

61.75

(21) 

AIG Germany Holding GmbH

Germany

100

Wurttembergische und Badische Versicherungs-AG

Germany

100

DARAG Deutsche Versicherungs-und Ruckversicherungs-

Aktiengesellschaft*

Germany

100

AIG UK Financing Limited

England

100

AIG UK Sub Holdings Limited

England

100

AIG UK Limited

England

100

AIG UK Services Limited

England

100

AIU North America, Inc. 

New York

100

American Life Insurance Company

Delaware

100

AIG Life Bulgaria Zhivotozastrahovatelno Druzhestvo AD

Bulgaria

100

ALICO, S.A. 

France

100

First American Polish Life Insurance   Reinsurance
    Company, S.A. 

Poland

100

Inversiones Interamericana S.A. 

Chile

99.99

Pharaonic American Life Insurance Company

Egypt

74.87

(22) 

American Security Life Insurance Company, Ltd. 

Lichtenstein

100

Delaware American Life Insurance Company

Delaware

100

Mt. Mansfield Company, Inc. 

Vermont

100

The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company

the Philippines

99.78

352    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Percentage 

of Voting 

Securities 

Jurisdiction of 

held by 

Incorporation or 

Immediate 

As of December 31, 2008 

Organization 

Parent(1) 

Pacific Union Assurance Company

California

100

Philam Equitable Life Assurance Company, Inc. 

the Philippines

95

Philam Insurance Company, Inc. 

the Philippines

100

(*)   

In connection with AIG s asset disposition plan, through
    February 18, 2009, AIG has entered into contracts to sell
    AIG Privat Bank AG, DARAG Deutsche Versicherungs-und
    Ruckversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft, HSB Group, Inc., and AIG
    Life Insurance Company of Canada. 

(1)   

Percentages include directors  qualifying shares. 

(2)   

All subsidiaries listed are consolidated in the accompanying
    financial statements. Certain subsidiaries have been omitted
    from the tabulation. The omitted subsidiaries, when considered
    in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not constitute a
    significant subsidiary. 

(3)   

The common stock is owned approximately 10.1 percent by
    C.V. Starr   Co., Inc., Edward E. Matthews, Maurice R.
    and Corinne P. Greenberg Joint Tenancy Company, LLC, Starr
    International Company, Inc., The Maurice R. and Corinne P.
    Greenberg Family Foundation, Inc. and the Universal Foundation,
    Inc. 

(4)   

Also owned 0.01 percent by AIG Global Investment Corp. 

(5)   

Also owned 1 percent by AIG Capital Corporation. 

(6)   

Also owned 32.77 percent by National Union Fire Insurance
    Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. 

(7)   

Also owned 10 percent by AIG Matched Funding Corp. 

(8)   

Also owned 10 percent by a subsidiary of American Life
    Insurance Company. 

(9)   

Also owned by 11 other AIG subsidiaries. 

(10)   

Also owned by 11 other AIG subsidiaries. 

(11)   

Also owned 25.77 percent by AIG. 

(12)   

Also owned 21 percent by National Union Fire Insurance
    Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., 2 percent by The Insurance
    Company of the State of Pennsylvania and 2 percent by AIG
    Casualty Company. 

(13)   

Also owned 20 percent by the Insurance Company of the State
    of Pennsylvania and 10 percent by AIG Casualty Company. 

(14)   

Also owned 20 percent by the Insurance Company of the State
    of Pennsylvania and 10 percent by AIG Casualty Company. 

(15)   

Also owned 16.3 percent by American Home Assurance Company,
    31.1 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company and
    20.6 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company. 

(16)   

Also owned 35.12 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company
    and 19.00 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of
    Pennsylvania. 

(17)   

Also owned 24.97 percent by United Guaranty Residential
    Insurance Company of North Carolina. 

(18)   

Also owned 3.24 percent by American International
    Underwriters de Colombia Ltd. 

(19)   

Also owned 1.8 percent by American Life Insurance Company. 

(20)   

The common stock is owned 8.68 percent by American
    International Underwriters Overseas, Ltd. and 91.32 percent
    by AIG Europe Holdings Limited. 

(21)   

Also owned 55.1 percent by American International Company,
    Limited, 2.33 percent by AIG Ireland Limited,
    29.97 percent by American International Underwriters
    Overseas Association and 0.8 percent by New Hampshire
    Insurance Company. 

(22)   

Also owned 7.5 percent by AIG Egypt Insurance Company. 

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    353 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 22
 y74794exv23.htm
 EX-23: CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

EX-23 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 23  

Consent
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on
     Form S-8 
    and
     Form S-3 
     (No. 2-45346, 
     No. 2-75875, 
     No. 2-78291, 
     No. 2-91945, 
     No. 33-18073, 
     No. 33-57250, 
     No. 333-48639, 
     No. 333-58095, 
     No. 333-70069, 
     No. 333-83813, 
     No. 333-31346, 
     No. 333-39976, 
     No. 333-45828, 
     No. 333-50198, 
     No. 333-52938, 
     No. 333-68640, 
     No. 333-74187, 
     No. 333-101640, 
     No. 333-101967, 
     No. 333-108466, 
     No. 333-111737, 
     No. 333-115911, 
     No. 333-106040, 
     No. 333-132561, 
     No. 333-143992 
     No. 333-148148 
    and
     No. 333-150865) 
    of American International Group, Inc. of our report dated
    March 2, 2009, relating to the financial statements,
    financial statement schedules, and the effectiveness of internal
    control over financial reporting, which appears in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

March 2, 2009

354    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 23
 y74794exv31.htm
 EX-31: CERTIFICATIONS

EX-31 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 31  

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, Edward M. Liddy, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American International Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 2, 2009

/s/  Edward
    M. Liddy

Edward M. Liddy

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    355 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, David L. Herzog, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American International Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 2, 2009

/s/  David
    L. Herzog

David L. Herzog

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

356    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 24
 y74794exv32.htm
 EX-32: CERTIFICATIONS

EX-32 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 32  

CERTIFICATION  

In connection with this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American International Group, Inc. (the  Company )
    for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
     Report ), I, Edward M. Liddy, Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

Date: March 2, 2009

/s/  Edward
    M. Liddy

Edward M. Liddy

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as
    part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

AIG 2008
     Form 10-K    357 

American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries

CERTIFICATION  

In connection with this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American International Group, Inc. (the  Company )
    for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
     Report ), I, David L. Herzog, Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
    pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my
    knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

Date: March 2, 2009

/s/  David
    L. Herzog

David L. Herzog

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as
    part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

358    AIG 2008
     Form 10-K 

</EX-32>

