<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130221_10-K_edgar_data_5272_0001047469-13-001390_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>79738341</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1649933</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>19927566</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>17842245</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>27958800</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>9912468</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>343</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>27</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-13-001390.hdr.sgml : 20130221
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130221160846
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-13-001390
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		67
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130221
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000005272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				132592361
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08787
		FILM NUMBER:		13630516

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		180 MAIDEN LANE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10038
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127707000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		180 MAIDEN LANE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10038

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700507

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-13-001390.txt : 20130221

10-K
 1
 a2212976z10-k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

American International Group, Inc.       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)     

Delaware    
(State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)  
     
    13-2592361    
(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.)  

180 Maiden Lane, New York, New York    
(Address of principal executive offices)  
      
     10038    
(Zip Code)  

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 770-7000     

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.02     

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a 
smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes        No       

The aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common equity held by nonaffiliates of the registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant's most recently
completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $21,463,000,000.   

  As
of February 15, 2013, there were outstanding 1,476,322,473 shares of Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share, of the registrant.   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

FORM 10-K    

Item Number   

Description   

Page   

PART I        

Item 1.   
     
       Business   
     
   2   

AIG's Global Insurance Operations   
     
   3   

A Review of Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment
Expense   
     
   20   

Reinsurance Activities   
     
   23   

Generating Revenues: Investment Activities of Our
Insurance Operations   
     
   24   

Regulation   
     
   24   

Our Competitive Environment   
     
   29   

Our Employees   
     
   29   

Directors and Executive Officers of AIG   
     
   30   

Available Information about AIG   
     
   31   

Item 1A.   
     
       Risk Factors   
     
   32   

Item 1B.   
     
       Unresolved Staff Comments   
     
   44   

Item 2.   
     
       Properties   
     
   44   

Item 3.   
     
       Legal Proceedings   
     
   44   

Item 4.   
     
       Mine Safety Disclosures   
     
   44   

PART II        

Item 5.   
     
       Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
     
   45   

Item 6.   
     
       Selected Financial Data   
     
   48   

Item 7.   
     
       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     
   52   

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Information   
     
   52   

Use of Non-GAAP Measures   
     
   54   

Executive Overview   
     
   56   

Results of Operations   
     
   68   

Liquidity and Capital Resources   
     
   120   

Regulation and Supervision   
     
   137   

Investments   
     
   138   

Enterprise Risk Management   
     
   155   

Critical Accounting Estimates   
     
   172   

Glossary   
     
   195   

Acronyms   
     
   199   

Item 7A.   
     
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
     
   200   

Item 8.   
     
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     
   201   

Index to Financial Statements and Schedules   
     
   201   

Item 9.   
     
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     
   344   

Item 9A.   
     
       Controls and Procedures   
     
   344   

PART III        

Item 10.   
     
       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
     
   345   

Item 11.   
     
       Executive Compensation   
     
   345   

Item 12.   
     
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     
   345   

Item 13.   
     
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
     
   345   

Item 14.   
     
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
     
   345   

PART IV        

Item 15.   
     
       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   
     
   346   

SIGNATURES         

347   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
1  

Table of Contents    

PART I

ITEM 1  / BUSINESS

American International Group, Inc. (AIG)   

is a leading global insurance company. Founded in 1919, today we provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, mortgage insurance and other financial services to customers in more than 130 countries. Our
 diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock
 Exchange.  

AIG's key strengths include:  

World class insurance franchises   

that are leaders in their categories and are improving their operating performance;  

A diverse mix of businesses   

with a presence in most international markets;  

Effective capital management   

of the largest shareholders' equity of any insurance company in the world*, supported by enhanced risk
management;  

Execution of strategic objectives,   

such as the recent divestiture of non-core businesses and fulfillment of our commitment to repay the U.S.
taxpayers; and  

Improved profitability,   

as demonstrated by three consecutive years of full-year profit.  

*         At June 30, 2012, the latest date for which information was available for certain foreign insurance
companies.  
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
2  

Table of Contents   

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the
context indicates otherwise, we use the terms "AIG," the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" to refer to AIG, a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term "AIG Parent" to
refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.   

   A reference summary of certain technical terms and acronyms used throughout this Annual Report
on Form 10-K is available on pages 195-199.   

AIG's Global Insurance Operations   

HOW WE GENERATE REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY

We earn revenues    primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees from
universal life insurance and investment products, and income from investments.   

Our operating
expenses    consist of policyholder benefits and claims incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and
servicing our products, and general business expenses.   

Our profitability    is dependent on our ability to price and manage risk on
insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively, and control costs through expense discipline.   

Commencing
in the third quarter of 2012, the Chartis segment was renamed AIG Property Casualty and the SunAmerica segment was renamed AIG Life and Retirement, although certain existing brands will
continue to be used in certain geographies and market segments.   

AIG Property Casualty   

AIG Life and Retirement   

AIG Property Casualty    is a leading provider of insurance products for commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the world's most far-reaching property casualty
networks. AIG Property Casualty offers one of the industry's most extensive ranges of products and services, through its diversified, multichannel distribution network, benefitting from its strong capital position.  
      
    AIG Life and Retirement    is a premier provider of life insurance and retirement services in the United States. It is among the largest life insurance and retirement services businesses in the
United States. With one of the broadest distribution networks and most diverse product offerings in the industry, AIG Life and Retirement helps to ensure financial and retirement security for more than 18 million customers.  

Other Operations   

Mortgage Guaranty    (United Guaranty Corporation or UGC), is a leading provider of private residential
mortgage guaranty insurance (MI). MI covers mortgage lenders for the first loss from mortgage defaults on high loan-to-value conventional first-lien mortgages. By providing this coverage to lenders, UGC enables mortgage lenders to remain competitive,
while generating a sound and responsible book of business, and enables individuals to purchase a house with a lower down payment.  

Other operations also include Global Capital Markets, Direct Investment book, Retained Interests and Corporate   Other
operations.  

On
December 9, 2012, AIG announced an agreement to sell 80.1 percent of International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC) with an option for the purchaser to buy an additional
9.9 percent stake. As a result, ILFC operating results, which were previously presented in the Aircraft Leasing segment, have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods, and
associated assets and liabilities have been classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2012.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
3  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2012 Revenue Sources ($ millions)     

For
financial information concerning our reportable segments, including geographic areas of operation and changes made in 2012, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior
periods have been revised to conform to the current period presentation for segment changes and discontinued operations.   

Restructuring and Rebuilding: AIG Moving Forward     

We have taken significant steps to position our company for future growth and in 2012 fully repaid governmental financial support of AIG. These amounts are discussed below in 2011-2012 Accomplishments. 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York    

We repaid the governmental support that we received in September 2008 and thereafter during the global economic crisis. This support included a credit facility from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the FRBNY and such credit facility, the FRBNY
Credit Facility) and funding from the Department of the Treasury through the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). After receiving this support, our Board of Directors and management placed a strong focus on improving our businesses and pursued four
main priorities: 
                   building AIG's value by
strengthening our international property and casualty and domestic life insurance and retirement businesses; 
                   repaying support from the U.S.
government, including through significant divestitures; 
                   decreasing our operating costs;
and 
                   reducing risk by winding down our
exposure to certain financial products and derivatives trading activities.  

We have made substantial progress in each of these four main priority areas during the past few years. Our efforts have centered on protecting and enhancing the value of our key businesses, restoring AIG's
 financial strength, repaying U.S. taxpayers and reducing risk.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
4  

Table of Contents   

Department of the Treasury   

  Through a series of transactions that closed on January 14, 2011 (the Recapitalization), we exchanged various forms of government support for AIG Common Stock, and the
Department of the Treasury became AIG's majority shareholder, with approximately 92 percent of outstanding AIG Common Stock at that time.   

  The
Department of the Treasury, as selling shareholder, sold all of its shares of AIG Common Stock through six registered public offerings completed in May 2011 and March, May, August, September and
December 2012. We purchased approximately 421 million shares of AIG Common Stock in the first four of the 2012 offerings for approximately $13.0 billion. We did not purchase any shares
in the May 2011 or December 2012 offerings.   

  See
Item 7. MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources and Notes 4, 17, 18, and 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the government
support provided to AIG, the Recapitalization and significant asset dispositions.   

  These
and other key accomplishments are described in the following table:   

*         AIG
did not receive any proceeds from the sale of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury. The Department of the Treasury still owns ten-year warrants to purchase
approximately 2.7 million shares of AIG Common Stock.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
5  

Table of Contents    

AIG Property Casualty     

Business Strategy     

Business Mix Shift:       

Grow in higher value lines of business and geographies.  

Underwriting Excellence:       

Enhance pricing and risk-selection tools through investments in data mining, science and
technology.  

Claims Best Practices:       

Reduce loss costs through new claims technology, a more efficient and effective operating model and the use of data tools to
better manage the economic drivers of losses.  

Operating Expense Discipline:       

Decrease recurring operating expenses by leveraging AIG's scale and driving increased
standardization.  

Capital Management:       

Efficiently allocate capital through the use of risk adjusted profit metrics, optimization of reinsurance and legal entity
restructuring.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
6  

Table of Contents    

AIG Property Casualty Operating Segments   Products and Services     

AIG
Property Casualty operating segments are organized into    Commercial Insurance    and    Consumer Insurance.   
Run-off lines of business and operations not attributable to these operating segments are included in an Other operations category.   

Percent of 2012 Net premiums written by operating segment   *   

*         The operations reported as part of Other do not have meaningful levels of Net premiums written.   

Commercial Insurance 

Percent of 2012 Net premiums written by product line 
(dollars in millions)    

Consumer Insurance 

Percent of 2012 Net premiums written by product line 
(dollars in millions)    

Commercial products: 

Consumer products: 

Casualty:   

Includes general liability, commercial automobile liability, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis management insurance. Casualty also includes risk management and other customized structured programs
for large corporate customers and multinational companies.  
     
       Accident   Health:   

Includes voluntary and sponsor-paid personal accidental and supplemental health products for individuals, employees, associations and other organizations. It also includes life products (outside of the U.S.
market) as well as a broad range of travel insurance products and services for leisure and business travelers.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
7  

Table of Contents   

Property:   

Includes industrial energy-related and commercial property insurance products, which cover exposures to man-made and natural disasters, including business interruption. 
     Specialty:   

Includes aerospace, environmental, political risk, trade credit, surety and marine insurance, and various product offerings for small and medium sized enterprises. 
     Financial:   

Includes various forms of professional liability insurance, including directors and officers (D O), fidelity, employment practices, fiduciary liability, network security, kidnap and ransom, and errors and
omissions insurance (E O). 
     Distribution:   

Commercial Insurance products are primarily distributed through a network of independent retail and wholesale brokers and branches, and through an independent agency network.  

Personal:   

Includes automobile, homeowners and extended warranty insurance. It also includes insurance for high-net-worth individuals (offered through Private Client Group), including umbrella, yacht and fine art insurance,
and consumer specialty products, such as identity theft and credit card protection. 
     Distribution:   

Consumer Insurance products are distributed primarily through agents and brokers, as well as through direct marketing and partner organizations and through the internet.  

Other:   

Consists primarily of: run-off lines of business; operations and expenses not attributable to the Commercial Insurance or Consumer Insurance operating segments; unallocated net investment income; net realized
capital gains and losses; and other income and expense items.  

AIG Property Casualty conducts its business primarily through the following major operating companies:   

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.; New Hampshire Insurance Company; American Home Assurance Company; Lexington Insurance Company; AIU Insurance Company; Chartis Overseas Limited; Fuji;
Chartis Singapore Insurance, Pte, Ltd. and AIG Europe Limited.  

A Look at AIG Property Casualty   

Global Footprint     

  AIG
Property Casualty has a significant international presence in both developed markets and growth economy nations. It distributes its products through three major geographic
regions:   

Americas:   
  Includes the United States, Canada, Central America, South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda.     
            Asia Pacific:   
  Includes Japan and other Asia Pacific nations, including China, Korea, Singapore, Vietnam, Thailand, Australia and Indonesia.     
            EMEA (Europe, Middle East and
Africa):     Includes the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Russia, India, the Middle East and Africa.    

  In
2012, 6 percent and 5 percent of AIG Property Casualty direct premiums were written in the states of California and New York, respectively, and 19 percent and 7 percent
were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of such premiums.   

On
November 21, 2012, AIG, People's Insurance Company (Group) of China Limited (PICC Group) and PICC Life Insurance Company Limited (PICC Life) entered into a non-binding term sheet
with respect to the proposed establishment of a joint venture insurance agency company between AIG and PICC Life (the Joint Venture) which plans to distribute life insurance and other insurance
products through a specialized agency force on a nationwide basis with a focus on major cities in China and to engage in reinsurance and other related business cooperation. AIG   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
8  

Table of Contents   

  Life
and Retirement made an equity investment of approximately $0.5 billion in PICC Group. AIG's participation in the Joint Venture will be managed by AIG Property Casualty.   

Total Net Premiums Written $34.4 bn  

Based on net premiums written in 2011, AIG Property Casualty is the largest U.S. commercial insurer in the U.S. and Canada, the largest U.S. based property casualty insurer in Europe, and the largest foreign property casualty insurer in Japan and
China. In addition, AIG Property Casualty was first to market in many developing nations and is well positioned to enhance its businesses in countries such as China, India and Brazil.  

Competition   

  Operating
in a highly competitive industry, AIG Property Casualty competes against approximately 3,300 stock companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual companies and other underwriting
organizations. In international markets, we compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers global insurance groups and local companies in specific market areas and
product types.   

  Insurance
companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, service and terms and conditions. AIG Property Casualty distinguishes itself in the insurance industry
primarily based on its well-established brand, financial strength and large capital base, innovative products, expertise in providing specialized coverages and customer service.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
9  

Table of Contents   

  AIG
Property Casualty serves its business and individual customers on a global basis   from the largest multinational corporations to local businesses and individuals. Our clients
benefit from our substantial underwriting expertise and long-term commitment to the markets and clients we serve.   

AIG Property Casualty Competitive Strengths and Challenges   

Diversification      breadth of customers served, products underwritten and distribution
channels  

Global franchise      operating in more than 90 countries and
jurisdictions  

Scale      facilitates risk diversification to optimize returns on capital  

Service      focused on customer needs, providing strong global claims, loss
prevention and mitigation, engineering, underwriting and other related services  

Expertise      experienced employees complemented with new talent  

Financial strength      well capitalized, strong balance sheet  

Somewhat offsetting these strengths are the following challenges:  

Barriers to entry are high   

Regulatory changes    in recent years created an increasingly complex environment that is
affecting industry growth and profitability

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
10  

Table of Contents    

AIG Life and Retirement     

Business Strategy     

AIG Life and Retirement is focused on the following strategic initiatives:   

Grow Assets Under Management:       

Fully
leverage a unified distribution organization to increase sales of profitable products across all channels. Capitalize on the growing demand for income solutions and AIG Life and Retirement's capital
base, risk controls, innovative product designs, expanded distribution initiatives and financial discipline to grow variable annuity business. Pursue selected institutional market opportunities where
AIG Life and Retirement's scale and capital base provide a competitive advantage.  

Increase Life Insurance In-Force:       

Develop innovative life offerings through consumer focused research that delivers superior, differentiated product solutions.
Consolidate life insurance platforms, operations and systems to create a more efficient, cost-competitive and agile operating model.  

Enhance Return on Equity:       

Build on simplified legal entity structure to enhance financial strength and durability, capital efficiency and ease of doing
business. Improve operational efficiencies, expense control and service through investments in technology and more productive use of existing resources and lower-cost operations
centers.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
11  

Table of Contents   

Operating Segments

AIG
Life and Retirement currently has two operating segments:    Life Insurance    focuses on life insurance and related protection products and     Retirement Services   
focuses on investment, retirement savings and income solution products. On April 12, 2012, AIG Life and Retirement announced
several key organizational structure and management changes intended to better serve the organization's distribution partners and customers. Key aspects of the new structure are distinct product
divisions, shared annuity and life operations platforms and a unified all-channel distribution organization with access to all AIG Life and Retirement products.   

AIG
Life and Retirement expects to modify its presentation of results to reflect its new structure when the reporting changes are implemented in the first quarter of 2013 and conform all prior
periods' presentations to reflect the new structure. The new structure will include two operating segments      Retail    and     Institutional   . Retail
product lines will include life insurance and accident and health (A H), fixed annuities, variable annuities and income solutions,
brokerage services and retail mutual funds. Institutional product lines will include group retirement, group benefits and institutional markets. The institutional markets product line will consist of
stable value wrap products, structured settlement and terminal funding annuities, private placement variable life and annuities, guaranteed investment contracts and corporate and
bank-owned life insurance.   

  Additionally,
AIG Life and Retirement completed the merger of six life insurance operating legal entities into American General Life Insurance Company effective December 31, 2012. This merger
facilitates capital and dividend planning while creating operating efficiencies and making it easier for producers and customers to do business with AIG Life and Retirement. AIG Life and Retirement
will continue to market products and services under its existing brands.   

AIG Life and Retirement Operating Segments   Products and Services     

Percent of 2012 total revenue by operating segment (dollars in millions)   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
12  

Table of Contents   

Life Insurance     

Percent of 2012 Premiums, Deposits and other considerations by line of business 
(dollars in millions)    

Retirement Services     

Percent of 2012 Premiums, Deposits and other considerations by line of business 
(dollars in millions)    

*  Other includes fixed, equity indexed and runoff
annuities.  

Products include a full line of life insurance, deferred and payout annuities, A H products, worksite and group benefits.   

Products and services focus on investment, retirement savings and income solution products.   

AIG Life and Retirement is one of the largest life insurance organizations in the United States and is a leader in today's financial services marketplace.   

AIG Life and Retirement holds leadership positions in both retail and institutional markets:  

Long-standing
leadership position in fixed annuity sales through banks and other financial institutions  

Innovator in
guaranteed income solutions and a top provider of variable annuities  

Industry-leading
life and accident and health products  

Broad range of
retail mutual fund offerings  

One of the
largest independent broker-dealer networks in the country  

Leading
retirement plan provider in K-12 schools, higher education, healthcare, government and other nonprofit entities  

Institutional
Markets offerings, including leadership position in structured settlement annuities  

Extensive lineup
of group benefits offered in worksites and through affinity organizations  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
13  

Table of Contents   

Life Insurance    

Retirement Services    

The Life Insurance operating segment offers a broad range of protection and mortality-based products. These products are marketed under four principal
brands   American General, AGLA, AIG Direct and AIG Benefit Solutions. 
     Life Insurance and A H:   

Primary products include term life insurance, universal life insurance and A H products. Life insurance and A H products are distributed through independent marketing organizations and independent
insurance agents under the American General brand. Career agents distribute Life Insurance and A H products under the AGLA brand. American General and AGLA will continue to focus on innovative product development and delivering differentiated
product solutions to producers and customers. AIG Direct (formerly known as Matrix Direct) is a proprietary direct-to-consumer distributor of term life insurance and A H products.   
     Institutional:   

Products primarily include structured settlement and terminal funding annuities, fixed payout annuities, private placement variable annuities and variable life insurance, corporate-owned life insurance,
bank-owned life insurance, and stable value wrap products. These products are marketed under the American General brand through independent marketing organizations and structured settlement brokers. Institutional Markets has a disciplined and
opportunistic approach to growth in these product lines.   
     Group Benefits:   

In 2012, AIG Life and Retirement and AIG Property Casualty combined their U.S. group benefits businesses and operate as AIG Benefits Solutions. This business will continue to market a wide range of insurance and
benefits products for employees (both employer paid and voluntary) and affinity groups. Primary product offerings include life insurance, accidental death, business travel accident, disability income, medical excess (stop loss), dental, vision and
worksite universal life, critical illness and accident.  
     
       The Retirement Services operating segment provides investment, retirement and income solutions products and services. These products and
services are marketed through a variety of brands described below. 
     Group Retirement:   

Products are marketed under the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) brand and include fixed and variable group annuities, group mutual funds, and group administrative and compliance services. VALIC
career financial advisors and independent financial advisors provide retirement plan participants with enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning services. 
     Fixed Annuities:   

Products are primarily marketed under the Western National brand and include single and flexible premium deferred fixed annuities. Western National maintains its leading industry position in the bank distribution
channel by designing products in cooperation with banks and offering an efficient and flexible administration platform. 
     Variable Annuities:   

Products are marketed under the SunAmerica Retirement Markets (SARM) brand and are designed to provide customers with retirement income. Customers may choose among a wide range of variable annuities offering
diverse investment options and product features, including stock and fixed income portfolios, guaranteed death benefits and various guaranteed retirement income solutions. Variable annuity products are distributed through banks and national, regional
and independent broker-dealer firms. 
     Brokerage Services:   

Includes the operations of Advisor Group, which is one of the largest networks of independent financial advisors in the U.S. Brands include Royal Alliance, SagePoint, FSC Securities and Woodbury Financial, which
we acquired in November 2012 for $48 million after purchase price adjustments. 
     Retail Mutual Funds:   

Includes the mutual fund and related administration and servicing operations of SunAmerica Asset Management.  

AIG Life and Retirement conducts its business primarily through three major insurance operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company, The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company and The
United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
14  

Table of Contents   

AIG Life and Retirement 2012 Premiums and Premiums, Deposits and Other Considerations     

Premiums
represent amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on life contingent payout annuities. Premiums, deposits and other considerations is a
non-GAAP measure that includes life insurance premiums and deposits on annuity contracts and mutual funds.   

  See
Item 7. MD A   Result of Operations   AIG Life and Retirement Operations   Premiums for a reconciliation of premiums, deposits and
other considerations to premiums.   

A Look at AIG Life and Retirement   

AIG Life and Retirement 2012 Sales by Distribution Channel 
      (dollars in millions)     

Represents
life and group A H premiums from new policies expected to be collected over a one-year period plus 10 percent of life unscheduled deposits, single premiums and annuity
deposits from new and existing customers.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
15  

Table of Contents   

AIG Life and Retirement's Diversified Distribution Network   

Affiliated 

Nonaffiliated 

VALIC career financial advisors   

Over 1,200 financial advisors serving the worksites of educational, not-for-profit and governmental organizations 
     AGLA career agents   

Over 3,100 agents focused on the broad middle market 
     Advisor Group   

Over 6,000 independent financial advisors 
     AIG Direct   

A leading direct-to-consumer distributor of life and A H products  

Banks   

Nearly 600 banks and 69,000 financial institution agents 
     Independent marketing organizations   

Relationships with over 1,700 independent marketing organizations and brokerage general agencies providing access to over 150,000 licensed independent agents 
     Broker dealers   

Access to over 120,000 licensed financial professionals 
     Benefit brokers   

Include consultants, brokers, third party administrators and general agents  

Competition and Customer Marketing Strengths     

  AIG
Life and Retirement competes against approximately 1,800 providers of life insurance and retirement savings products, including other large, well-established life insurance companies
and other financial services companies. Life insurance companies compete through a combination of risk-acceptance (underwriting) criteria, product pricing, service, and terms and
conditions. Retirement services companies also compete through crediting rates and through offering guaranteed benefits features.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement competes in the life insurance and retirement savings businesses primarily based on its well-established brands, innovative products, extensive distribution
network, customer service and strong financial ratings. AIG Life and Retirement helps ensure financial and retirement security for more than 18 million customers.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
16  

Table of Contents   

AIG Life and Retirement Competitive Strengths

Leading life insurance and
retirement brands   

Diversified
product mix   

Broad
multi-channel distribution network   

Financial
strength   

AIG Life and Retirement is an established leader with well-regarded
brands    in the markets it serves. AIG Life and Retirement has the scale and breadth of product knowledge to deliver effective solutions across a range
of markets.   

AIG Life and Retirement has an expansive product suite    including life
insurance, accident and health, annuity, mutual fund, group retirement, group benefit and institutional products as well as other solutions to help provide a secure future for our customers.   

AIG Life and Retirement's distribution footprint covers a broad expanse of the U.S.
market.    AIG Life and Retirement products are sold by over 300,000 financial professionals across an extensive and growing multichannel network of
financial advisors and insurance agents that spans both affiliated and non-affiliated partners.   

AIG Life and Retirement's financial profile is strong and stable,    giving
customers confidence in AIG Life and Retirement's ability to meet financial obligations associated with its retirement and insurance products.   

  Somewhat
offsetting these strengths are regulatory changes in recent years, which have created an increasingly complex environment that is affecting industry growth and profitability.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
17  

Table of Contents    

Other Operations   

Mortgage Guaranty (United Guaranty Corporation or UGC)    offers private
residential mortgage guaranty insurance, which protects mortgage lenders and investors from loss due to borrower default and loan foreclosure. With over 1,100 employees, United Guaranty currently
insures over one million mortgage loans in the United States and has operations in nine other countries. In 2012, United Guaranty generated more than $37 billion in new insurance written, which
represents the original principal balance of the insured mortgages, becoming the leading provider of private mortgage insurance in the United States and is the highest rated private mortgage insurance
company in the U.S.

Mortgage Guaranty Business Strategy     

Risk
Selection:      

Ensure the high quality of our business through a continuous focus on risk selection and risk based pricing using a
proprietary, multi-variant risk evaluation model and disciplined underwriting approach.  

Innovation:      

Focus on innovation through the development and enhancement of products, technology, and processes, addressing the needs of
stakeholders in the mortgage system.  

Ease of
Use:      

Eliminate complexity in the mortgage insurance system to create growth without sacrificing disciplined risk selection and
management.  

Expense
Management:      

Streamline our processes through the use of technology and shared services to more quickly react to the changing dynamics of
the mortgage industry.  

Mortgage Guaranty Insurance     

Products and Services:    United Guaranty
provides an array of products and services including first-lien mortgage guaranty insurance in a range of premium payment plans. United Guaranty's primary product is private mortgage
insurance. The coverage we provide   which is called mortgage guaranty insurance, mortgage insurance, or simply "MI"   enables borrowers to purchase a house with
a modest down payment. This is because MI protects lenders against the increased risk of borrower default related to high loan-to-value (LTV) mortgages  
those with less than 20 percent equity. In short, MI lets lenders provide more mortgage loans to more people.   

Homeowner Support:    United Guaranty also works
with homeowners who are behind on their mortgage payments to identify ways to retain their home. As a liaison between the borrower and the mortgage servicer, United Guaranty provides the added support
to qualified homeowners to help them avoid foreclosure.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
18  

Table of Contents   

A Look at Mortgage Guaranty   

Mortgage Guaranty Distribution Channels     

National Mortgage
Bankers  
     
                 Community Banks  

Money Center
Banks  
     
                 State Housing Finance
Agencies  

Regional Mortgage
Lenders  
     
                 Builder-owned Mortgage
Lenders  

Credit Unions  
     
                 Internet-sourced
lenders  

Mortgage Guaranty Competition and Competitive Strengths     

  United
Guaranty competes with six private providers of mortgage insurance, both well-established and new entrants to the industry, and The Federal Housing
Administration, which is the largest provider of mortgage insurance in the United States.   

  The
United Guaranty brand has 50 years of history and is well regarded in the industry. We differentiate ourselves through our financial strength, our risk based pricing strategy, which
provides for lower premiums for lower risk mortgages, our innovative products and our rigorous approach to risk management. Despite these strengths there are potential challenges arising in the
mortgage market from increasingly complex regulations relating to mortgage originations as well as uncertainty in the government's involvement in the domestic residential housing finance system in the
future. These challenges may have an adverse impact on our business.    

Other operations also include:   

Global Capital Markets (GCM)    consist of the
operations of AIG Markets, Inc. (AIG Markets) and the remaining derivatives portfolio of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries
(collectively AIGFP). AIG Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG and its subsidiaries and third parties to provide hedging services. The AIGFP portfolio continues to be wound down
and is managed consistent with AIG's risk management objectives. Although the portfolio may experience periodic fair value volatility, it consists predominantly of transactions that AIG believes are
of low complexity, low risk or currently not economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis.   

Direct Investment Book (DIB)    consists of a
portfolio of assets and liabilities held directly by AIG Parent in the Matched Investment Program (MIP) and certain subsidiaries not related to AIG's core insurance operations (including certain
non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP). The management of the DIB portfolio is focused on an orderly wind down to maximize returns consistent with AIG's risk management
objectives. Certain non-derivative assets and liabilities of the DIB are accounted for under the fair value option and thus operating results are subject to periodic market volatility.   

Retained Interests    includes the fair value gains
or losses, prior to their sale, of the AIA ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial public offering and the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities that were received as consideration from
the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) and the fair value gains or losses, prior to the FRBNY liquidation of ML III assets, on the retained interest in ML III.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
19  

Table of Contents   

Corporate   Other Operations    consist
primarily of interest expense, intercompany interest income that is eliminated in consolidation, expenses of corporate staff not attributable to specific reportable segments, certain expenses related
to internal controls and the financial and operating platforms, corporate initiatives, certain compensation plan expenses, corporate level net realized capital gains and losses, certain
litigation-related charges and credits, the results of AIG's real estate investment operations and net gains and losses on sale of divested businesses and properties that did not meet the criteria for
discontinued operations accounting treatment.   

Divested Businesses    We have divested a number of
businesses since 2009 in connection with our strategies to focus on core businesses, repay governmental support, and improve our financial flexibility and risk management. Divested businesses include
the historical results of divested entities that did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations accounting treatment.   

  Divested
businesses include the historical results of AIA through October 29, 2010 and AIG's remaining consumer finance business, discussed below. In the third quarter of 2010, AIG completed an
initial public offering of ordinary shares of AIA. Upon completion of this initial public offering, AIG owned approximately 33 percent of the outstanding shares of AIA. Because of this
ownership position in AIA, as well as AIG's prior representation on the AIA board of directors, AIA was not presented as a discontinued operation.   

Discontinued Operations   consist of entities that were sold, or are being sold, that met specific accounting criteria discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

On December 9, 2012, AIG entered into an agreement to sell 80.1 percent of ILFC for approximately $4.2 billion in cash, with an option for
the purchaser to buy an additional 9.9 percent stake. The sale is expected to be consummated in 2013. The operating results for ILFC are reflected as a discontinued operation in all periods
presented and its assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale at December 31, 2012.   

  On
August 18, 2011, AIG closed the sale of Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan). On February 1, 2011, AIG closed the sale of AIG Star Life
Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison). The operating results for Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison through the dates of their respective sales
are reflected as discontinued operations in all periods prior to 2012.   

  In
the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG closed the sales of ALICO and American General Finance, Inc. (AGF). Periods prior to 2011 reflect ALICO and AGF as discontinued operations.   

  Additionally,
following the classification of AGF as a discontinued operation in the third quarter of 2010, AIG's remaining consumer finance business, which is primarily conducted through the AIG
Federal Savings Bank and the Consumer Finance Group in Poland, is now reported in AIG's Other operations category as part of Corporate   Other.   

A REVIEW OF LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE

The liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid reported claims and claims that have been incurred but not
reported (IBNR) for our AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries and Mortgage Guaranty. Unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses are also referred to as unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses, or just
loss reserves.   

  We
recognized as assets the portion of this liability that will be recovered from reinsurers. Reserves are discounted for future expected investment income, where permitted, in accordance with
U.S. GAAP.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
20  

Table of Contents    

The Loss Reserve Development Process     

  The
process of establishing the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is complex and imprecise because it must take into consideration many variables that
are subject to the outcome of future events. As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process.   

We use a number of techniques to analyze the adequacy of the established net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense (net loss reserves). Using these analytical techniques, we monitor the adequacy of
AIG's established reserves and determine appropriate assumptions for inflation and other factors influencing loss costs. Our analysis also takes into account emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve redundancies or deficiencies
and IBNR emergence. We also consider specific factors that may impact losses, such as changing trends in medical costs, unemployment levels and other economic indicators, as well as changes in legislation and social attitudes that may affect
decisions to file claims or the magnitude of court awards. See Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates for a description of our loss reserving process. 
A significant portion of AIG Property Casualty's business is in the U.S. commercial casualty class, which tends to involve longer periods of time for the reporting and settlement of claims and may increase the risk and uncertainty with respect to our
loss reserve development.  

Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes in estimates are sometimes referred to as
 "loss development" or "reserve development."   

Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development     

  The
"Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development" table shown on page 22 presents the development of prior year net loss reserves for calendar years 2002
through 2012 for each balance sheet in that period. The information in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This table
should be interpreted with care by those not familiar with its format or those who are familiar with other loss development analyses arranged in an accident year or underwriting year basis rather than
the balance sheet, as shown below. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The top row of the table shows      Net Reserves Held      (the
net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses) at each balance sheet date, net of discount.    This liability represents the estimated
amount of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims arising in all years prior to the balance sheet date that were unpaid as of that balance sheet date, including estimates for IBNR claims. The
amount of loss reserve discount included in the net reserves at each date is shown immediately below the net reserves held. The undiscounted reserve at each date is equal to the sum of the discount
and the net reserves held.   

  For
example,    Net Reserves Held (Undiscounted)    was $30.8 billion at December 31, 2002.   

The next section of the table shows the original      Net Undiscounted Reserves
re-estimated      over 10 years. This re-estimation takes into consideration a number of factors, including changes in the estimated frequency of
reported claims, effects of significant judgments, the emergence of latent exposures, and changes in medical cost trends.    For example, the original
undiscounted reserve of $30.8 billion at December 31, 2002, was re-estimated to $58.0 billion at December 31, 2012. The amount of the development related to
losses settled or re-estimated in 2012, but incurred in 2009, is included in the cumulative development amount for years 2009, 2010 and 2011. Any increase or decrease in the estimate is
reflected in operating results in the period in which the estimate is changed.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
21  

Table of Contents   

The middle of the table shows      Net Redundancy/(Deficiency).       This is the aggregate change in estimates over the period
of years covered by the table.    For example, the net loss reserve
deficiency of $27.1 billion for 2002 is the difference between the original undiscounted reserve of $30.8 billion at December 31, 2002 and the $58.0 billion of
re-estimated reserves at December 31, 2012. The net redundancy/(deficiency) amounts are cumulative; in other words, the amount shown in the 2011 column includes the amount shown in
the 2010 column, and so on. Conditions and trends that have affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to
extrapolate future development based on this table.   

The bottom portion of the table shows the      Paid (Cumulative)       amounts during successive years related to the
undiscounted loss reserves.    For example, as of December 31, 2012, AIG
had paid a total of $47.9 billion of the $58.0 billion in re-estimated reserves for 2002, resulting in Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted) of $10.1 billion for 2002.
Also included in this section are the    Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted)    and the    Remaining Discount    for
each year.   

   The following table presents loss reserves and the related loss development 2002 through 2012 and consolidated gross liability (before discount), reinsurance recoverable and
net liability recorded for each calendar year, and the re-estimation of these amounts as of December 31, 2012. (a)    

(a)     During
2009, we deconsolidated Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. and sold 21st Century Insurance Group and HSB Group, Inc. The sales and deconsolidation are reflected
in the table above as a reduction in December 31, 2009 net reserves of $9.7 billion and as an $8.6 billion increase in paid losses for the years 2000 through 2008 to remove the
reserves for these divested entities from the ending balance.   

  (b)     The
increase in Net Reserves Held from 2009 to 2010 is partially due to the $1.7 billion in Net Reserves Held by Fuji, which was acquired in 2010. The decrease in 2011 is due
to the cession of asbestos reserves described in Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   Segment Results   AIG Property Casualty
Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense   Asbestos and Environmental Reserves.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
22  

Table of Contents   

  The Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense as reported in AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2012 differs from the total
reserve reported in the annual statements filed with state insurance departments and, where applicable, with foreign regulatory authorities primarily for the following reasons:  

Reserves for certain foreign operations are not required or permitted to be reported in the United States for statutory
reporting purposes, including contingency reserves for catastrophic events;   
           Statutory practices in the United States require reserves to be shown net of applicable reinsurance recoverable; and    
           Unlike statutory financial statements, AIG's consolidated Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense
excludes the effect of intercompany transactions.    

  Gross
loss reserves are calculated without reduction for reinsurance recoverables and represent the accumulation of estimates for reported losses and IBNR. We review the adequacy of established gross
loss reserves in the manner previously described for net loss reserves. A reconciliation of activity in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense is included in Note 13 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

REINSURANCE ACTIVITIES

AIG subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross basis and reinsuring a portion of the exposure on either
an individual risk or an aggregate basis to the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level. In addition, as a condition of certain direct
underwriting transactions, we are required by clients, agents or regulation to cede all or a portion of risks to specified reinsurance entities, such as captives, other insurers, local reinsurers and
compulsory pools.   

  In
2012, AIG Property Casualty adopted a new ceded reinsurance framework and strategy to improve the efficiency of our legal entity capital management and support our global product line risk and
profitability objectives. Reinsurance is also used to manage overall capital adequacy and mitigate the effects of certain events such as natural and man-made catastrophes. As a result of
adopting the new framework and strategy, many individual reinsurance contracts were consolidated into more efficient global programs and reinsurance ceded to third parties in support of risk and
capital management objectives has decreased in 2012. There are many different forms of reinsurance agreements and different markets that may be used to achieve our risk and profitability objectives.
We continually evaluate the reinsurance markets and the relative attractiveness of various arrangements that may be used to achieve our risk and profitability objectives.   

  The
form of reinsurance that we may choose from time to time will generally depend on whether we are seeking (i) proportional reinsurance, whereby we cede a specified percentage of premium and
losses to reinsurers, or non-proportional or excess of loss reinsurance, whereby we cede all or a specified portion of losses in excess of a specified amount on a per risk, per occurrence
(including catastrophe reinsurance) or aggregate basis and (ii) treaties that cover a defined book of policies, or facultative placements that cover an individual policy.   

  Reinsurance
markets include:  

Traditional local and global reinsurance markets including in the United States, Bermuda, London and Europe, accessed
directly and through reinsurance intermediaries;   
           Capital markets through investors in ILS and collateralized reinsurance transactions, such as catastrophe bonds,
"sidecars" (special purpose entities that allow investors to take on the risk of a book of business from an insurance company in exchange for a premium) and similar vehicles; and    
           Other insurers which engage in both direct and assumed reinsurance and/or engage in swaps.    

  Reinsurance
arrangements do not relieve the AIG subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds. However, an effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates our exposure to potentially
significant losses.   

  See
Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Insurance Operations Risks   AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance
Risks   Reinsurance Recoverables for a summary of significant reinsurers.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
23  

Table of Contents   

GENERATING REVENUES: INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES OF OUR INSURANCE OPERATIONS

AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these premiums and deposits to generate
net investment income and fee income that is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities. 
 
AIG's worldwide insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in fixed maturity securities of corporations, municipal bonds and government issuances in all of its portfolios, and, to a lesser extent, investments in high-yield
bonds, common stock, real estate, hedge funds and other alternative investments.  

We generate significant revenues in our AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement operations from investment activities.   

The majority of assets backing insurance liabilities at AIG consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.   

AIG Property Casualty      Fixed maturity
securities held by the insurance companies included in AIG Property Casualty domestic operations historically have consisted primarily of laddered holdings of tax-exempt municipal bonds.
These tax-exempt municipal bonds provided attractive after-tax returns and limited credit risk. To meet our domestic operations' current risk-return and tax
objectives, our domestic property and casualty companies have begun to shift investment allocations away from tax-exempt municipal bonds towards taxable instruments. Any taxable
instruments must meet our liquidity, duration and quality objectives as well as current risk-return and tax objectives. Fixed maturity securities held by AIG Property Casualty
international operations consist primarily of intermediate duration high-grade securities, primarily in the markets being served. In addition, AIG Property Casualty has redeployed cash in
excess of operating needs and short-term investments into longer-term, higher-yielding securities.   

AIG Life and Retirement      Our investment
strategy is to generally match the duration of our liabilities with assets of comparable duration. AIG Life and Retirement also invests in a diversified portfolio of private equity funds, hedge funds
and affordable housing partnerships. Although these types of investments are subject to periodic earnings volatility, through December 31, 2012, they have achieved total returns in excess of
AIG Life and Retirement's base portfolio yield. AIG Life and Retirement expects that these alternative investments will continue to outperform the base portfolio yield over the long term.   

The following table summarizes the investment results of AIG's insurance operations, excluding the results of discontinued operations     

(a)     Includes
real estate investments and excludes cash and short-term investments.   

  (b)     Net
investment income divided by the annual average investments.   

REGULATION

Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including banking, insurance, securities and investment advisory
regulators in the United States and abroad. The insurance   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
24  

Table of Contents   

  and
financial services industries generally have been subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision in recent years.   

Federal Reserve Supervision

We are a savings and loan holding company (SLHC) within the meaning of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) and are regulated and subject to the examination, supervision and
enforcement authority and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB). Because we were grandfathered as a unitary SLHC within the meaning of HOLA when we
organized AIG Federal Savings Bank and became an SLHC in 1999, we generally are not restricted under existing laws as to the types of business activities in which we may engage, as long as AIG Federal
Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender.   

  The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) has effected comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and
subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. The FRB supervises and regulates SLHCs, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) supervises and regulates federal savings
associations, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and oversight bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an
ongoing process that has begun and is anticipated to continue over the next few years.   

  Changes
mandated by Dodd-Frank include directing the FRB to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs. The FRB, OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) have proposed
revised minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that would apply to all bank holding companies and SLHCs, as well as to insured depository institutions, such as AIG Federal
Savings Bank. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FRB has also proposed enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies and non-bank systemically important financial
institutions (SIFIs) and has stated its intention to propose enhanced prudential standards for SLHCs pursuant to HOLA. We cannot predict whether the capital regulations will be adopted as proposed or
what enhanced prudential standards the FRB will promulgate for SLHCs, either generally or as applicable to insurance businesses. Further, we cannot predict how the FRB will exercise general
supervisory authority over us, although the FRB could, as a prudential matter, for example, limit our ability to pay dividends, purchase shares of AIG Common Stock or acquire or enter into other
businesses. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets
generally, impact our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, or require us to raise additional capital or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings.   

Furthermore,
Dodd-Frank requires SIFIs to be subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the FRB (including minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements).
Nonbank SIFIs will be designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) created by Dodd-Frank. If we are
designated as a SIFI, we will be regulated by the FRB both in that capacity and in our capacity as an SLHC. The regulations applicable to SIFIs and to SLHCs, when all have been adopted as final rules,
may differ materially from each other. In October 2012, we received a notice that we are under consideration by the Council for a proposed determination that we are a SIFI. The notice stated that we
will be reviewed in Stage 3 of the SIFI determination process described in the Council's interpretive guidance for nonbank financial company determinations. If we are designated as a SIFI, we
would also be subject to additional regulatory requirements, including heightened prudential standards. For a description of those standards as currently proposed and a discussion of the potential
effects on us if we are designated as a SIFI, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation.   

  As
part of its general prudential supervisory powers, the FRB has the authority to limit our ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be permissible for us to engage in if we do not satisfy
certain requirements.   

  Directive
2002/87/EC (the Directive) issued by the European Parliament provides that certain financial conglomerates with regulated entities in the European Union, such as AIG, are subject to
supplementary supervision. Pursuant to the Directive, the Commission Bancaire, the French banking regulator, was appointed as our supervisory coordinator. We have been in discussions with, and have
provided information to, the Autorit  de Contr le Prudentiel (formerly, the Commission Bancaire) and the UK Financial Services Authority regarding the possibility of
proposing another of our existing regulators as our equivalent supervisor.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
25  

Capital Requirements

Section 171 of Dodd-Frank (the Collins Amendment) subjects SLHCs to capital requirements that must be no less stringent than the requirements generally
applicable to insured depository institutions or quantitatively lower than the requirements in effect for insured depository institutions as of July 21, 2010. The regulatory capital
requirements currently applicable to insured depository institutions, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank, are computed in accordance with the U.S. federal banking agencies' generally applicable
risk-based capital requirements, which are based on accords established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee). These accords have evolved over time, and are
referred to as Basel I, Basel II and Basel III.   

  In
June 2012, the federal banking agencies issued proposed rules that would revise and replace current regulatory capital rules for banking organizations, including SLHCs.   

We
are still considering the full impact of the proposed capital rules and the FRB and the other federal banking agencies have not adopted final rules. In addition, the FRB has announced that the
rules will not be effective as of January 1, 2013, as originally proposed, but has not provided a revised effective date.   

  Also
in June 2012, the FRB and the other federal banking agencies issued revised final rules that modify their market risk regulatory capital requirements for banking institutions with significant
trading activities. These modifications are designed to address the adjustments to the market risk regulatory capital framework that were announced by the Basel Committee in June 2010 (referred to as
"Basel II.5") and the prohibition on the use of external credit ratings, as required by Dodd-Frank. These changes become effective for banking institutions in 2013 and will likely become
effective for us when capital requirements for SLHCs are implemented. These changes will result in increased regulatory capital requirements for market risk. We are still considering the full impact
of these capital requirements.   

Volcker Rule

In July 2012, Section 619 of Dodd-Frank, referred to as the "Volcker Rule," became effective, although the final rule implementing Section 619 has
not yet been released. Under the proposed rule released in October 2011, if we continue to be regulated as an SLHC due to our control of AIG Federal Savings Bank, or control another insured depository
institution, we and our affiliates would be considered banking entities for purposes of the rule and, after the rule's conformance date of July 21, 2014, would be prohibited from "proprietary
trading" and sponsoring or investing in "covered funds," subject to the rule's exceptions. Even if we are no longer regulated as an SLHC or no longer control an insured depository institution, we
could be subject to restrictions on these activities if we are designated as a SIFI, as Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to subject SIFIs to capital requirements, quantitative limits or other
restrictions if they engage in activities prohibited for banking entities under the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule, as proposed, contains an exemption for proprietary trading by insurance companies
for their general account, but the final breadth and scope of this exemption is uncertain.   

Other Effects of Dodd-Frank

In
addition, Dodd-Frank will also have the following effects on us:  

If we are designated as a SIFI, the FRB could (i) limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or
become affiliated with another company, to offer specified financial products or to terminate specified activities; (ii) impose conditions on how we conduct our activities or (iii) with
approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S. financial stability, require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or
off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities.   
           If we are designated as a SIFI, we will be required to provide to regulators an annual plan for our rapid and orderly
resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, which must, among other things, ensure that AIG Federal Savings Bank is adequately protected from risks arising from our other
entities and meet several specific standards, including requiring a detailed resolution strategy and analyses of our material entities, organizational structure, interconnections and
interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
26  

The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and
safeguards for activities or practices that we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in.   
           Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer
(such as us) may be subject to a special liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code. That process is to be administered by the FDIC upon a coordinated determination by the Secretary of
the Treasury, the director of the Federal Insurance Office and the FRB, in consultation with the FDIC, that such a financial company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk
to U.S. financial stability.   
           Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter (OTC)
derivatives markets   including the imposition of margin and collateral requirements, centralized clearing and reporting/record keeping requirements   that could
affect various activities of AIG and its insurance subsidiaries.   
           Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included in the definition
of "swap." If that study concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap
is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates are in or may participate in the stable value contract business. We cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the
aforementioned study or be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.   
           Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a
director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various
functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting member of the Council and participating in the Council's decisions regarding insurers,
potentially including AIG, to be designated as a SIFI. The director is also required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States,
including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. The FIO may also recommend enhanced regulations to state insurance regulatory bodies.    
           Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as an independent agency within the FRB
to regulate consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB's general jurisdiction,
although the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has since transferred authority to the CFPB to investigate mortgage insurance practices. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not
subject to the CFPB's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.   
           Title XIV of Dodd-Frank also restricts certain terms for mortgage loans, such as loan fees, prepayment fees
and other charges, and imposes certain duties on a lender to ensure that a borrower can afford to repay the loan.    

  Dodd-Frank
imposes various assessments on financial companies, including, as applicable to us, ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to
cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II (although the regulatory authority would have to take account of the amounts paid by us into state guaranty
funds).   

  We
cannot predict whether these actions will become effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit
ratings. However, it is possible that such effect could be materially adverse. See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation for additional information.   

Other Regulatory Developments

In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial
crisis and taking steps to avoid similar problems in the future. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, has issued a
series of frameworks and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly SIFIs, should be regulated. These frameworks and recommendations address such
issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to
the financial crisis. The FSB has directed the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (the IAIS, headquartered in Basel, Switzerland) to create   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
27  

standards
relative to these areas and incorporate them within that body's Insurance Core Principles. IAIS Insurance Core Principles form the baseline threshold for how countries' financial services
regulatory efforts are measured relative to the insurance sector. That measurement is made by periodic Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) reviews conducted by the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund and the reports thereon spur the development of country-specific additional or amended regulatory changes. Lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions
in which our subsidiaries conduct business have already begun implementing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with these recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated
regulation of insurance holdings companies by the Financial Services Agency in Japan, financial and banking regulation adopted in France and compensation regulations proposed or adopted by the
financial regulators in Germany and the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority.   

  Legislation
in the European Union could also affect our international insurance operations. The Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC) (Solvency II), which was adopted on November 25, 2009 and is
expected to become effective in January 2014, reforms the insurance industry's solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and
public reporting standards. The impact on us will depend on whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is deemed "equivalent" to Solvency II; if the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is not
equivalent, then we, along with other insurance companies, could be required to be supervised under Solvency II standards. Whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime will be deemed "equivalent" is
still under consideration by European authorities and remains uncertain, so we are not currently able to predict the impact of Solvency II.   

  We
expect that the regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.   

Regulation of Insurance Subsidiaries

Certain states require registration and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such states and are controlled by other corporations. Applicable
legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the corporation that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of
intercompany services and transfers of assets, including in some instances
payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those states that have such requirements.   

  Our
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business. Within the United States, the method of such regulation varies
but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of the
insurers and their corporate conduct and market conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, including with respect
to risk-based capital, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single
policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies, the form and content of
reports of financial condition required to be filed and reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the
equity owners of these companies.   

  In
the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Virtually every
state has adopted, in substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), which allows states to act upon the results of RBC calculations,
and provides for four incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a
plan describing how an insurer would regain a calculated RBC ratio above the respective threshold through a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The action thresholds are based on RBC levels
that are calculated so that a company subject to such actions is solvent but its future solvency is in doubt without some type of corrective action. The RBC formula computes a
risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. These factors are developed to be risk-sensitive so that higher factors
are applied to items exposed to greater risk. The statutory surplus of each of our U.S.-based life and property and casualty insurance subsidiaries exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of
December 31, 2012.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
28  

If
any of our insurance entities fell below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of support to that entity, under formal
support agreements or capital maintenance agreements (CMAs) or otherwise. For additional details regarding CMAs that we have entered into with our insurance subsidiaries, see Item 7.
MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries   AIG Property Casualty
and   AIG Life and Retirement.   

  The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative (SMI) which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout the U.S.
financial regulatory system and is expected to lead to a set of long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has stated that its focus will include the U.S.
solvency framework, group solvency issues, capital requirements, international accounting and regulatory standards, reinsurance and corporate governance.   

  A
substantial portion of AIG Property Casualty's business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, we must satisfy local
regulatory requirements, licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented
from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.   

  In
addition to licensing requirements, our foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security
deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on participating policies.
Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted
insurers are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing
constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.   

  See
Item 7. MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Regulation and Supervision and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

OUR COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

AIG's businesses operate in a highly competitive global environment. Principal sources of competition are insurance companies, banks, and other non-bank
financial institutions. AIG considers its principal competitors to be other large multinational insurance organizations. We describe our competitive strengths, our strategies to retain existing
customers and attract new customers within each of our operating business segment descriptions.   

OUR EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2012, AIG and its subsidiaries had approximately 63,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.   

*         Includes
approximately 500 employees of ILFC, which was held for sale at December 31, 2012.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
29  

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF AIG

Information concerning the directors and executive officers of AIG as of February 21, 2013 is set forth below.   

All directors of AIG are elected for one-year terms at the annual meeting of shareholders.   

  All
executive officers are elected to one-year terms, but serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for the following individuals below, each of the executive officers has,
for more than five years, occupied an executive position with AIG or companies that are now its subsidiaries. There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other
person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected to such position.   

   Robert Benmosche    joined AIG as Chief Executive Officer in August 2009. Previously, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
MetLife, Inc. from September 1998 to February 2006 (Chairman until April 2006). He served as President of MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2004, President and
Chief Operating Officer from November 1997 to June 1998, and Executive Vice President from September 1995 to October 1997. Mr. Benmosche has served as a member of the Board of Directors of
Credit Suisse Group since 2002.   

   Michael R. Cowan    joined AIG as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining AIG, he was at Merrill Lynch
where he had served as Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Services, since 1998. Mr. Cowan began his career at Merrill Lynch in 1986 as a Financial Manager and later served as Chief
Administrative Officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. He was also Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Management Committee for the Global Private Client business, including
Merrill Lynch Asset Management.   

   Thomas Russo    joined AIG as Executive Vice President   Legal, Compliance, Regulatory Affairs and Government Affairs and General
Counsel in February 2010. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Russo was with the law firm of Patton Boggs, LLP, where he served as Senior Counsel. Prior to that, he was Chief Legal Officer of
Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Before joining Lehman Brothers in 1993, he was a partner at the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham   Taft and a member of its Management Committee.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
30  

Table of Contents    

   Peter Hancock    joined AIG in February 2010 as Executive Vice President of Finance and Risk. Prior to joining AIG,
Mr. Hancock served as Vice Chairman of KeyCorp, responsible for Key National Banking. Prior to KeyCorp, he served as Managing Director of Trinsum Group, Inc. Prior to that position,
Mr. Hancock was at JP Morgan for 20 years, eventually serving as head of its fixed income division and ultimately Chief Financial Officer.   

   Siddartha Sankaran    joined AIG in December 2010 as Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to that, he was a partner in the Finance and Risk
practice of Oliver Wyman Financial Services and served as Canadian Market Manager since 2006.   

   Charles S. Shamieh    joined AIG in 2007 as Executive Director of Enterprise Risk Management. In January 2011, Mr. Shamieh was elected to his
current position of Senior Vice President and Corporate Chief Actuary. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Shamieh was Group Chief Risk Officer for Munich Re Group and a Member of the Group Committee of
Munich Re's Board of Management since 2006.   

AVAILABLE INFORMATION ABOUT AIG

Our corporate website is    

www.aig.com .    We make available free of
charge, through the Investor Information section of our corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials
are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC:  

Annual Reports on
Form 10-K   
            Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q   
            Current Reports on
Form 8-K   
            Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with the
SEC    

  Also
available on our corporate website:  

Charters for Board Committees:    Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance,
Compensation and Management Resources, Finance and Risk Management, and Regulatory, Compliance and Public Policy Committees   
            Corporate Governance Guidelines    (   which include
Director Independence Standards   )  
            Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (we
will post on our website any amendment or waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)   
            Employee Code of
Conduct   
            Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy    

  Except
for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual reference.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
31  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1A  /    RISK FACTORS

Investing in AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a
significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of
our securities. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered carefully together
with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Further, many of these risks are interrelated and
could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could
materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.   

MARKET CONDITIONS

Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may materially and adversely affect our businesses,
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.    Our businesses are highly dependent on the economic environment, both in the U.S. and
around the world. Concerns over continued high domestic unemployment, weakness in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets, the ability of the U.S. government to rein in the U.S. deficit,
address the federal debt ceiling and reduce spending, and the European Union's ability to resolve its debt crisis, among other issues, have contributed to increased volatility and reduced expectations
for the economy and the markets in the near term. Extreme prolonged market events, such as the global financial crisis during 2008 and 2009, have at times led, and could in the future lead, to a lack
of liquidity, highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset values across all classes, an erosion of investor and public confidence, and a widening of credit spreads. Difficult economic
conditions could also result in increased unemployment and a severe decline in business across a wide range of industries and regions. These market and economic factors could have a material adverse
effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   

  Under
difficult economic conditions, we could experience reduced demand for our financial and insurance products and an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Contract
holders may choose to defer or cease paying insurance premiums. Other ways in which we could be negatively affected by economic conditions, include, but are not limited
to:  

declines in the valuation and performance of our investment portfolio, including declines attributable to rapid increases
in rates;   
           increased credit losses;   
           declines in the value of other assets;   
           impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets;   
           additional statutory capital requirements;   
           limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;   
           a decline in new business levels and renewals;   
           a decline in insured values caused by a decrease in activity at client organizations;    
           an increase in liability for future policy benefits due to loss recognition on certain long-duration insurance
contracts;   
           higher borrowing costs and more limited availability of credit;   
           an increase in policy surrenders and cancellations; and   
           a write-off of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC).    

Sustained low interest rates may materially and adversely affect our
profitability.    Sustained low interest rates can negatively affect the performance of our investment securities and reduce the level of investment
income earned on our investment portfolios. If a low interest rate environment persists, we may experience slower investment   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
32  

Table of Contents   

  income
growth and we may not be able to fully mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Continued low interest rates could impair our ability to earn the returns
assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued.   

INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO, CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS, INSURANCE AND OTHER EXPOSURES

The performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes
in interest rates.    Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary
policies, domestic and international economic and political issues and other factors beyond our control. Changes in monetary policy or other factors may cause interest rates to rise, which would
adversely affect the value of the fixed income securities that we hold and could adversely affect our ability to sell these securities. In addition, the evaluation of
available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairments, which may occur if interest rates rise, is a quantitative and qualitative process
that is subject to significant management judgment.   

Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the
economy.    Our results of operations and financial condition have been adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our investment portfolio in
the past, and this may occur again in the future. We have concentrations in residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage loans. We
also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money center and global banks; U.S. state and local government issuers and authorities; and Eurozone financial
institutions and governments and corporations. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may
adversely affect our investments that are concentrated in such segments. Our ability to sell assets concentrated in such areas may be limited if other market participants are selling similar assets at
the same time.   

Concentration of our insurance and other risk exposures may have adverse
effects.    We may be exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for
customers and counterparties. We manage these concentration risks by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures by factors such as exposure type, industry, geographic region, counterparty and other
factors. We also use reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the limits we wish to retain. In certain circumstances, however, these risk management
arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective for certain exposures. Also, our exposure may be so large that even a slightly adverse experience compared to our
expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition, or result in additional statutory capital requirements for our subsidiaries.   

RESERVES AND EXPOSURES

Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition are subject to the effects of catastrophic
events.    Events such as hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other catastrophes have adversely
affected our business in the past and could do so in the future. Such events could expose us to:  

widespread claim costs associated with property, workers' compensation, business interruption and mortality and morbidity
claims;   
           loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets   
           limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;   
           loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to the assumptions made in the product pricing; and    
           significant interruptions to our systems and operations.    

  For
a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Insurance Operations
Risks   AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks   Catastrophe Exposures.   

Insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss
expenses.    We regularly review the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
33  

Table of Contents   

  expense
and conduct extensive analyses of our reserves during the year. Our loss reserves, however, may develop adversely. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a
complex process, particularly for long-tail casualty lines of business. These include, but are not limited to, general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers'
compensation, excess casualty and crisis management coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as
excess and umbrella liability, D O and products liability.   

  While
we use a number of analytical reserve development techniques to project future loss development, reserves may be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors
that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be due to difficulties in predicting changes, such as changes in inflation, the
judicial environment, or other social or economic factors affecting claims. Any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time
after we record the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years. For a further discussion of our loss reserves, see Item 7. MD A   Results of
Operations   Segment Results   AIG Property Casualty Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense and Critical
Accounting Estimates   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense (AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty).   

Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against
losses.    Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy. While
reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their obligation to pay claims for losses insured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to them for the reinsured portion of the
risk. For this reason, reinsurance is an important risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond our
control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. As a result, we
may, at certain times, be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In that case, we would have to accept an increase
in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries' reinsurers to the extent
the reinsurance receivable is not secured by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer may be unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as
reinsurance recoverables for any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties of the contract, (ii) the terms of the
contract cannot be legally enforced, (iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court differently than intended, (iv) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we
anticipated due to a flawed design of the reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws and regulations, materially
impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of our agreements, could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. For additional information on our reinsurance, see Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management  
Insurance Operations Risks   AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks   Reinsurance Recoverables.   

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT

Our internal sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs.   
We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt, maturing debt obligations and to meet any statutory capital requirements of our subsidiaries. If our liquidity is insufficient to
meet our needs, we may at the time need to have recourse to third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity, which may not be available or could be prohibitively
expensive. The availability and cost of any additional financing at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including general market conditions, the volume of trading activities, the overall
availability of credit, regulatory actions and our credit ratings and credit capacity. It is also possible that, as a result of such recourse to external financing, customers, lenders or investors
could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets, and downgrades in our
credit ratings, may limit our ability to access external capital markets at times and on terms favorable to us to meet our capital and liquidity needs or prevent our accessing the external capital
markets or other financing sources. For a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7. MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
34  

Table of Contents   

A downgrade in our
credit ratings could require us to post additional collateral and result in the termination of derivative transactions.    Credit ratings estimate a
company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing. A downgrade of our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies would
require us to post additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we are a party, and could permit the termination of these derivative transactions. This could adversely
affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period or our liquidity. In the event of further downgrades of two notches to our long-term senior debt ratings,
AIG would be required to post additional collateral of $226 million, and certain of our counterparties would be permitted to elect early termination of contracts.   

AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited.    As
a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. The majority of our
investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to
support their own capital levels or because of regulatory limits.   

AIG Parent's ability to support our subsidiaries is limited.    AIG Parent
has in the past and expects to continue to provide capital to our subsidiaries as necessary to maintain regulatory capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash flow
obligations, in some cases under support or capital maintenance agreements. AIG Parent has entered into capital maintenance agreements with certain of our insurance subsidiaries that will require it
to contribute capital if specific capital levels are breached. If AIG Parent is unable to satisfy a capital need of a subsidiary, the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in certain cases, could be
seized by its regulator.   

Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash to meet their needs due to the illiquidity of some of their
investments.    Our subsidiaries have investments in certain securities that may be illiquid, including certain fixed income securities and certain
structured securities, private company securities, private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage loans, finance receivables and real estate. Collectively, investments in these securities had a fair
value of $49 billion at December 31, 2012. The decline in the U.S. real estate markets and tight credit markets have also materially adversely affected the liquidity of our other
securities portfolios, including our residential and commercial mortgage-related securities and investment portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our subsidiaries
and AIG Parent is unable to provide it, it may be difficult for these subsidiaries to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing these less liquid investments.   

A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance companies could prevent them from writing new business
and retaining customers and business.    Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of
insurance companies. IFS ratings measure an insurance company's ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders. High ratings help maintain public confidence in a company's
products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance its competitive position. Downgrades of the IFS ratings of our insurance companies could prevent these companies from selling, or make it more
difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and services, or result in increased policy cancellations, termination of assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. Under credit rating
agency policies concerning the relationship between parent and subsidiary ratings, a downgrade in AIG Parent's credit ratings could result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance
subsidiaries.   

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS

Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders, investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to
accelerate the amortization of DAC, and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits.    DAC represents deferred costs that are incremental
and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. The amortization of DAC associated with our Life and Retirement Services business is affected by
factors that include current and expected interest rate fluctuations, surrender rates and investment returns. Changes in these factors may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of
DAC and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. For example, when interest rates rise, customers may buy a competitor's insurance products with higher anticipated returns. This can
lead to an increase in policy loans, policy surrenders, withdrawals of life insurance policies, and withdrawals of annuity contracts, causing an acceleration of the amortization of DAC. If DAC
amortization exceeds the fees we earn upon surrender or withdrawals, our results of operations could be negatively affected.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
35  

Table of Contents   

  We
regularly review DAC for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented, and retirement services products to assess recoverability. This review involves estimating the future profitability of
in-force business and requires significant management judgment. If future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, we could be required to accelerate DAC amortization.   

Periodically,
we evaluate the estimates used in establishing liabilities for future policy benefits for life and A H insurance contracts, which include liabilities for certain payout annuities. We
evaluate these estimates against actual experience and make adjustments based on judgments about mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns, including the interest
rate environment and net realized capital gains (losses). If actual experience or estimates result in changes to projected future losses on long duration insurance contracts, we may be required to
record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense, which could
negatively affect our results of operations. For further discussion of DAC and future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 2, 10
and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Certain of our products offer guarantees that may decrease our earnings and increase the volatility of our
results.    We offer variable annuity products that guarantee a certain level of benefits, such as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed
minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). At December 31, 2012, our net liabilities associated with
these guaranteed benefits were $1.4 billion. We use reinsurance combined with derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to these liabilities. While we believe that our actions have
mitigated the risks related to guaranteed benefits, our exposure is not fully hedged; in addition, we remain liable if reinsurers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Finally, downturns
in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits, reducing our net income and
shareholders' equity.   

Indemnity claims could be made against us in connection with divested
businesses.    We have provided financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the businesses we have sold, including ALICO, as described in
greater detail in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe the claims under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant
indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. See Note 16
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these financial guarantees and indemnities.   

Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations.   
We provide insurance, investment and other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries. A substantial portion of our AIG Property Casualty business is
conducted outside the United States, and we intend to continue to grow this business. Operations outside the United States, particularly in developing nations, may be affected by regional economic
downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect our other operations.   

  The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG Parent, as well as its subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory
requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future
business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations depending on the magnitude of the event and
our financial exposure at that time in that country.   

Significant conditions precedent must be satisfied in order to complete the sale of the common stock of ILFC on the agreed
terms.    Under the terms of the share purchase agreement (Share Purchase Agreement) we entered into for the sale of up to 90% of the common stock of
ILFC (the ILFC Transaction) to an entity (the Purchaser) formed on behalf of an investor group, consummation of the ILFC Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions
precedent, such as certain customary conditions and other closing conditions, including the receipt of approvals or non-disapprovals from certain regulatory bodies, including, among
others:  

the People's Republic of China National Development and Reform Commission,    
           the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), and   
           other antitrust and regulatory agencies,    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
36  

Table of Contents   

  in
some cases, without the imposition on either party by such agencies of conditions that would qualify as burdensome.   

  Any
relevant regulatory body may refuse its approval or may seek to make its approval subject to compliance by ILFC or the Purchaser with unanticipated or onerous conditions. Even if approval is not
required, the regulator may impose requirements on ILFC subsequent to consummation of the ILFC Transaction. We or the Purchaser may not agree to such conditions or requirements and may have a
contractual right to terminate the Share Purchase Agreement.   

  In
addition to other customary termination events, the Share Purchase Agreement allows termination (i) by any party if the closing has not occurred on or before May 15, 2013, subject to
an extension to June 17, 2013 if certain conditions are met or (ii) by us if Purchaser has not paid the required deposit into an escrow account upon the later of March 15, 2013
and ten days after approval of the transaction by CFIUS.   

Because
of the closing conditions and termination rights applicable to the ILFC Transaction, completion of the ILFC Transaction is not assured or may be delayed or, even if the transaction is
completed, the terms of the sale may need to be significantly restructured.   

Failure to complete the ILFC Transaction could negatively affect our businesses and financial
results.    If the ILFC Transaction is not completed, the ongoing businesses of ILFC and AIG may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several
risks, including the following:  

alternative plans to dispose of ILFC, such as through a sale or initial public offering, may be difficult to structure and
may take extended periods of time to implement, depending on, among other things, the global economic and regulatory environments and general market conditions;   
           we may not be able to realize equivalent or greater value for ILFC under an alternative asset monetization plan which
could impact the carrying values of ILFC's assets and liabilities;   
           we will have incurred certain significant costs relating to the ILFC Transaction without receiving the benefits of the
ILFC Transaction, and may incur further significant costs if an alternative monetization plan is undertaken;   
           negative customer perception could adversely affect ILFC's ability to compete for, maintain or win new and existing
business in the marketplace; and   
           potential further diversion of our management's time and attention.    

Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial
condition.    We are party to numerous legal proceedings, including securities class actions and regulatory and governmental investigations. Due to the
nature of these proceedings, the lack of precise damage claims and the type of claims we are subject to, we cannot currently quantify our ultimate or maximum liability for these actions. Developments
in these unresolved matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. For a discussion of
these unresolved matters, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

If we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard the security of our data, our
ability to conduct business may be compromised, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.    We use
computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer, employee, and company data and information. Some of these systems in turn, rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly
dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing
and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability
to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a natural disaster,
a computer virus, a terrorist attack or other disruption inside or outside the U.S., our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business
partners for an extended period of time, and our employees may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also
be subject to unauthorized access, such as physical or electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other global companies, we have, from time to time, experienced threats to our
data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks,   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
37  

Table of Contents   

  unauthorized
access, systems failures and disruptions. AIG maintains cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or
proprietary information being compromised. In some cases, such unauthorized access may not be immediately detected. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our
consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

  In
addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential,
we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect
confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other
jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The compromise of personal,
confidential or proprietary information could result in remediation costs, legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.   

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS OF ILFC PRIOR TO COMPLETION OF THE ILFC TRANSACTION

We will be subject to the following risks until we complete the ILFC Transaction:     

Our aircraft leasing business depends on lease revenues and exposes us to the risk of lessee
nonperformance.    A decrease in ILFC's customers' ability to meet their obligations to ILFC under their leases may negatively affect our business,
results of operations and cash flows.   

ILFC's aircraft may become obsolete over time.    Aircraft are
long-lived assets requiring long lead times to develop and manufacture. Particular models and types of aircraft may become obsolete and less in demand over time, when newer, more advanced
and efficient aircraft or aircraft engines are manufactured. This life cycle, however, can be shortened by world events, government regulation or customer preferences. As aircraft in ILFC's fleet
approach obsolescence, demand for particular models and types may decrease. This may result in declining lease rates, losses on sales, impairment charges or fair value adjustments and may adversely
affect ILFC's business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   

The residual value of ILFC's aircraft is subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties.    Technological developments, macro-economic conditions, availability and cost of funding for aviation, and the overall health of the
airline industry impact the residual values of ILFC's aircraft. If challenging economic conditions persist for extended periods, the residual values of ILFC's aircraft could be negatively impacted,
which could result in future impairments.   

COMPETITION AND EMPLOYEES

We face intense competition in each of our businesses.    Our businesses
operate in highly competitive
environments, both domestically and overseas. Our principal competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as banks, investment banks and other non-bank
financial institutions. The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,300 other stock companies,
specialty insurance organizations, mutual insurance companies and other underwriting organizations. AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries compete in the U.S. with approximately 1,800 life insurance
companies and other participants in related financial services fields. Overseas, our subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global
insurance groups and local companies.   

  The
past reduction of our credit ratings and the lingering effects of AIG's negative publicity have made, and may continue to make, it more difficult to compete to retain existing customers and to
maintain our historical levels of business with existing customers and counterparties. General insurance and life insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product
pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A decline in our position as to any one or more of these
factors could adversely affect our profitability.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
38  

Table of Contents    

Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people
we need to support our business.    Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Due to the intense competition
in our industry for key employees with demonstrated ability, we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. Losing any of our key people also could have a material adverse effect on our operations
given their skills, knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our results of operations and financial
condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees.   

Mr. Benmosche may be unable to continue to provide services to AIG due to his
health.    Robert Benmosche, our President and Chief Executive Officer, was diagnosed with cancer and has been undergoing treatment for his disease. He
continues to fulfill all of his responsibilities and has stated his desire to continue in such roles beyond 2013. However, his condition may change and prevent him from continuing to perform these
roles.   

Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant
losses.    There have been a number of cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we
run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply
with regulatory requirements or our internal policies may result in losses. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that we have in place to prevent and
detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.   

REGULATION

Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary
capital requirements or reduce our profitability.    Our operations generally, and our insurance subsidiaries, in particular, are subject to extensive
supervision and regulation by national authorities and by the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial
condition. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is the protection of our insurance contract holders, and not our investors. The extent of domestic regulation varies, but generally is governed
by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments.   

  We
strive to maintain all required licenses and approvals. However, our businesses may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations. The relevant authority's
interpretation of the laws and regulations also may change from time to time. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not
have the required licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our
activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit them to supervise the business and
operations of an insurance company.   

  In
the U.S., the risk based capital (RBC) formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has
adopted, in substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), which specifies the regulatory actions the insurance regulator may take if an
insurer's RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC ratio, to a mandatory
regulatory takeover of the company.   

  The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG Parent, as well as its subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory
requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business
in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, depending on
the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country.   

Our status as a savings and loan holding company and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, either or both of which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of
operations and cash flows.    On July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank, which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial
services in the United States, was signed into law. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
39  

Table of Contents   

  to
promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately
adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations or cash flows, or require us to raise additional capital.   

  We
are regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and subject to its examination, supervision and enforcement authority and reporting requirements as a savings and loan
holding company (SLHC). The FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have proposed revised minimum leverage and risk-based capital
requirements that would apply to all bank holding companies and SLHCs, as well as to insured depository institutions, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank. As a result of our regulation by the FRB as an
SLHC:  

The FRB exercises general supervisory authority over us.   
           The FRB, as a prudential matter, may limit our ability to pay dividends and purchase shares of AIG Common Stock.    
           The FRB is required to impose minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements on us that are not less
than those applicable to insured depository institutions.    

  In
addition, under Dodd-Frank we may separately become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB as a nonbank systemically important financial
institution (SIFI). In October 2012, we received a notice that we are under consideration by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) for a proposed determination that we are a SIFI. The
notice stated that we will be reviewed in Stage 3 of the SIFI determination process described in the Council's interpretive guidance for nonbank financial company determinations. If we are
designated as a SIFI:  

We would become subject to stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to
absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions.   
           We would be subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to
risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for
rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress.   
           We would become subject to a new early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.    
           If we are designated as a SIFI and determined to be a "grave threat" to U.S. financial
stability:  
           We would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15:1.    
           The FRB may:    

limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or become affiliated with another company;    
           restrict our ability to offer specified financial products;     
           require us to terminate specified activities;     
           impose conditions on how we conduct our activities; or     
           with approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S.
financial stability, require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities.    

In
addition, the regulations applicable to SIFIs and to SLHCs, when all have been adopted as final rules, may differ materially from each other.   

  See
Item 1. Business   Regulation for further discussion of this potential regulation.   

  Further,
if we continue to control AIG Federal Savings Bank or another insured depository institution, as of July 21, 2014, we will be required to conform to the "Volcker Rule", which prohibits
"proprietary trading" and the sponsoring or investing in "covered funds". The term "covered funds" includes hedge, private equity or similar funds and, in certain cases, issuers of asset backed
securities if such securities have equity-like characteristics. These prohibitions could have a substantial impact on our investment portfolios as they are currently managed. The Volcker
Rule, as   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
40  

Table of Contents   

  proposed,
contains an exemption for proprietary trading by insurance companies for their general account, but the final breadth and scope of this exemption cannot be predicted. Even if we no longer
controlled an insured depository institution, Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to subject SIFIs to additional capital and quantitative limitations if they engage in activities prohibited for
depository institutions by the Volcker Rule.   

  In
addition, Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for regulation of over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives under which we may have to provide or increase
collateral under the terms of bilateral agreements with derivatives counterparties. These additional obligations to post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or obtaining alternative
credit could have a material adverse effect on us. This new framework may also increase the cost of conducting a hedging program or have other effects materially adverse to us.   

  We
cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted, the level and magnitude of supervision we may become subject to, or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will
affect the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible that the regulations adopted under Dodd-Frank and our regulation by the FRB as
an SLHC could significantly alter our business practices, require us to raise additional capital, impose burdensome and costly requirements and additional costs. Some of the regulations may also
affect the perceptions of regulators, customers, counterparties, creditors or investors about our financial strength and could potentially affect our financing costs.   

The USA PATRIOT Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar laws that apply to us may expose us to significant
penalties.    The operations of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including, in some cases, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which
require companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. Also, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control
administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list
maintained by the U.S. government or with certain countries. The United Kingdom, the European Union and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although we have instituted
compliance programs to address these requirements, there are inherent risks in global transactions.   

Attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline AXXX may fail in whole or in part resulting
in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.    The NAIC Model Regulation "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies"
("Regulation XXX") requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with
secondary guarantees. In addition, NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (AXXX) (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to certain universal life insurance policies with
secondary guarantees. The application of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX involves numerous interpretations. At times, there may be differences of opinion between management and state
insurance departments about the application of these and other actuarial guidelines. Consequently, a state insurance regulator may require greater reserves to support insurance liabilities than
management has estimated.   

  We
have implemented intercompany reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. In so doing, we focus on identifying
cost-effective opportunities to manage our intercompany reinsurance transactions, particularly with respect to certain redundant statutory reserve requirements on Regulation XXX and
Guideline AXXX reserves. Our efforts have included the use of an intercompany reinsurance arrangement for Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves and the use of letters of credit to support
the reinsurance provided by our affiliated reinsurance subsidiary. All of these letters of credit are due to mature on December 31, 2015. The reinsurance and capital management actions we have
taken may not be sufficient to offset regulatory, rating agency or other requirements. In that case, we could be required to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs. If
we are unable to implement actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX on future sales of term and universal life insurance products, we may reduce the sales of these
products or incur higher operating costs or it may impact our sales of these products.   

New regulations promulgated from time to time may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and
ability to compete effectively.    Legislators and regulators may periodically consider various proposals that may affect the profitability of certain
of our businesses. New regulations may even affect our ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial
institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions. These proposals could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies
(either based on size, activities,   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
41  

Table of Contents   

  geography,
government support or other criteria). It is uncertain whether and how these and other such proposals would apply to us or our competitors or how they could impact our consolidated results
of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively.   

An "ownership change" could limit our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards to offset future taxable
income.    As of December 31, 2012, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $40.9 billion,
$17.3 billion in capital loss carryforwards and $5.5 billion in foreign tax credits (tax losses and credits carryforwards). Our ability to use such tax attributes to offset future
taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an "ownership change" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an
ownership change will occur when the percentage of AIG Parent's ownership (by value) of one or more "5-percent shareholders" (as defined in the Code) has increased by more than
50 percent over the lowest percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change
generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change tax losses and credits carryforwards equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the
ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to
the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382
would depend on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership change. If we were to experience an "ownership change", it is possible that a significant portion of our tax losses and credits
carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income.   

  On
March 9, 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a Tax Asset Protection Plan (the Plan) to help protect these tax losses and credits carryforwards. At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
shareholders ratified the Plan. At the same time, shareholders adopted a protective amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is designed to prevent certain transfers of AIG Common
Stock that could result in an "ownership change". The Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood of an "ownership change" by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a
4.99 percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any existing 4.99 percent shareholder from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment generally
restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock that would (i) increase the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG stock then outstanding or (ii) increase the
percentage of AIG stock owned by a Five Percent Stockholder (as defined in the Plan). Despite the intentions of the Plan and the Protective Amendment to deter and prevent an "ownership change", such
an event may still occur. In addition, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock
or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for AIG Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market
price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock transaction.   

Changes in tax laws could increase our corporate taxes, reduce our deferred tax assets or make some of our products less
attractive to consumers.    Changes in tax laws or their interpretation could negatively impact our business or results. Some proposed changes could
have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate by reducing deductions or increasing income inclusions, such as by limiting rules that allow for deferral of tax on certain foreign insurance
income. Conversely, other changes, such as lowering the U.S. federal corporate tax rate discussed recently in the context of tax reform, could reduce the value of our deferred tax assets. In addition,
changes in the way foreign taxes can be credited against U.S. taxes, methods for allocating interest expense, the ways insurance companies calculate and deduct reserves for tax purposes, and
impositions of new or changed premium, value added and other indirect taxes could increase our tax expense, thereby reducing earnings.   

  In
addition to proposing to change the taxation of corporations in general and insurance companies in particular, the Executive Branch of the Federal Government and Congress have recently considered
proposals that could increase taxes on owners of insurance products. For example, there are proposals that would limit the deferral of tax on income from life and annuity contracts relative to other
investment products. These changes could reduce demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts, or cause consumers to shift from these contracts to other investments, which would reduce
our income due to lower sales of these products or potential increased surrenders of in-force business.   

  Governments'
need for additional revenue makes it likely that there will be continued proposals to change tax rules in ways that would reduce our earnings. However, it remains difficult to predict
whether or when there will be any tax law changes having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
42  

Table of Contents   

ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS

Actual experience may differ from management's estimates used in the preparation of financial
statements.    Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which requires the application of
accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. The accounting policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore may be
viewed as critical accounting estimates, are described in Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of
which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates are based on judgment, current facts and circumstances, and, when applicable, internally developed models. Therefore, actual
results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.   

Our ability to achieve our long-term goals, including return on equity (ROE) and earnings per share (EPS), is
based on significant assumptions, and our actual results may differ, possibly materially, from these goals.    In setting our long-term
goals for ROE and EPS, described in Part I, Item 2. MD A   Long-Term Aspirational Goals in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended March 31, 2011, we made significant assumptions that include, among other things:  

the general conditions of the markets in which we operate;   
           revenues and combined ratios of our subsidiaries;   
           investment yields;   
           our subsidiaries' capacity to distribute dividends to AIG Parent;   
           our ability to deploy capital towards share purchases, dividend payments, acquisitions or organic growth;    
           the impact of a change in our credit ratings on our ability to maintain financial leverage;    
           the exclusion of the reversal of the tax valuation allowance on shareholders' equity in calculating our
long-term ROE goal;   
           effectiveness of our cost rationalization measures;   
           regulatory approval of our planned actions (including share purchases, dividend payments or acquisitions);    
           the overall credit rating implications of our proposed strategic actions; and    
           general financial market and interest rate conditions.    

  These
assumptions are not historical facts but instead represent our expectations about future events. Many of these events, by their nature, are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and
contingencies and are outside our control. It is very likely that actual events and results will differ from some or all of the assumptions we made. While we remain committed to our
long-term aspirational goals, our actual results are likely to differ from these aspirational goals and the difference may be material and adverse.   

The
aspirational goals and their underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Shareholders and other investors should not place undue reliance on any of these assumptions or aspirational
goals. We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any obligation) to update or alter any assumptions, goals, projections or other related statements, whether written or oral, that may be
made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information for additional information about
forward-looking statements.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
43  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1B  /    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG's fiscal year relating to AIG's
periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.    

ITEM 2  /    PROPERTIES

AIG and its subsidiaries operate from over 400 offices in the United States and approximately 600 offices in over 75 foreign countries. The following offices are located in
buildings in the United States owned by AIG and its subsidiaries:   

AIG Property Casualty:   

AIG Life and Retirement:   

175 Water Street in New York,
New York  
     
                 Amarillo, Ft. Worth and
Houston, Texas  

Wilmington,
Delaware  
     
                 Nashville,
Tennessee  

Stevens Point,
Wisconsin  

San Juan, Puerto
Rico  

Other Operations:   

Greensboro and
Winston-Salem, North Carolina  

Livingston, New
Jersey  

Stowe, Vermont  

In addition, AIG Property Casualty owns offices in approximately 20 foreign countries and jurisdictions including Argentina, Bermuda, Colombia, Ecuador, Japan,
Mexico, the U.K., Taiwan, and Venezuela. The remainder of the office space utilized by AIG and its subsidiaries is leased. AIG believes that its leases and properties are sufficient for its current
purposes.   

LOCATIONS OF CERTAIN ASSETS

As of December 31, 2012, approximately 11 percent of the consolidated assets of AIG were located outside the U.S. and Canada, including $260 million of
cash and securities on deposit with regulatory authorities in those locations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional geographic information. See Note 7 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for total carrying values of cash and securities deposited by our insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities.   

  Operations
outside the U.S. and Canada and assets held abroad may be adversely affected by political developments in foreign countries, including tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory
policy, as well as by consequence of hostilities and unrest. The risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon AIG vary from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. If
expropriation or nationalization does occur, AIG's policy is to take all appropriate measures to seek recovery of any affected assets. Certain of the countries in which AIG's business is conducted
have currency restrictions that generally cause a delay in a company's ability to repatriate assets and profits. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Business and Operations for
additional information.    

ITEM 3  /    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16   Legal Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by
reference.    

ITEM 4  /    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
44  

Table of Contents   

PART II

ITEM 5  /    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

AIG's common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: AIG), as well as on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. There were
approximately 37,550 stockholders of record of AIG Common Stock as of January 31, 2013.   

   The following table presents high and low closing sale prices on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the dividends paid per share of AIG Common Stock for each
quarter of 2012 and 2011:   

*      Includes
the effect of the AIG Common Stock trading with due bills for the dividend paid in the form of warrants.   

  From November 2008 through January 14, 2011, AIG was unable to pay dividends under the terms of certain series of AIG preferred stock that were then
outstanding. From January 14, 2011 to May 2011, we were unable to pay dividends on AIG Common Stock, due to restrictions relating to the AIG Series G Cumulative Mandatory Convertible
Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series G Preferred Stock). The Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled in connection with AIG's public offering of AIG Common Stock in May
2011. Our ability to pay dividends has not been subject to any contractual restrictions since the cancellation of the Series G Preferred Stock.   

  Any
payment of dividends must be approved by AIG's Board of Directors. In determining whether to pay any dividend, our Board of Directors may consider AIG's financial position, the performance of our
businesses, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, available capital, the existence of investment opportunities, and other factors. AIG is subject to restrictions
on the payment of dividends and purchases of AIG Common Stock as a result of being regulated as a savings and loan holding company. AIG may become subject to other restrictions on the payment of
dividends and purchases of AIG Common Stock if it is designated a SIFI. See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation for further discussion of this regulation.   

  For
a discussion of certain restrictions on the payment of dividends to AIG by some of its insurance subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity, Capital and
Credit   AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited, and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

Our table of equity compensation plans will be included in the definitive proxy statement for AIG's 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The definitive proxy statement will
be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of AIG's fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

We purchased a total of 421,228,855 shares of AIG Common Stock for approximately $13.0 billion in four offerings of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury
during 2012. All purchases were authorized by our Board of   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
45  

Table of Contents   

  Directors.
At December 31, 2012, our Board had not authorized any additional purchases. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on AIG share
purchases.   

COMMON STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The following Performance Graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on AIG Common Stock for a five-year period (December 31, 2007 to
December 31, 2012) with the cumulative total return of the S P's 500 stock index (which includes AIG) and a peer group of companies (the New Peer Group) consisting of fifteen insurance
companies to which we compare our business and operations:   

ACE Limited  
     
                 Lincoln National
Corporation  

AEGON, N.V.  
     
                 MetLife,
 Inc.  

Aflac
Incorporated  
     
                 Principal Financial Group,
 Inc.  

Allianz Group  
     
                 Prudential Financial,
 Inc.  

AXA Group  
     
                 The Travelers Companies,
 Inc.  

The Chubb
Corporation  
     
                 XL
Capital Ltd.  

CNA Financial
Corporation  
     
                 Zurich Insurance
Group  

Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc.  

The Performance Graph also compares the cumulative total shareholder return on AIG Common Stock to the return of a group of companies (the Old Peer Group)
consisting of ten insurance companies to which we compared our business and operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011:   

ACE Limited  
     
                 MetLife, Inc.  

Allianz Group  
     
                 Prudential Financial,
 Inc.  

The Chubb
Corporation  
     
                 The Travelers Companies,
 Inc.  

Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc.  
     
                 XL
Capital Ltd.  

Lincoln National
Corporation  
     
                 Zurich Insurance
Group  

AEGON, N.V., Aflac Incorporated, AXA Group, CNA Financial Corporation and Principal Financial Group, Inc. were added to the New Peer Group because
we believe the changes result in a peer group that is more comparable to our overall business and operations. Dividend reinvestment has been assumed and returns have been weighted to reflect relative
stock market capitalization.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
46  

Table of Contents   

Five-Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Returns     

   Value of $100 Invested on December 31, 2007     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
47  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 6  /    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Selected Consolidated Financial Data should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere herein.   

(a)     Comparability
between 2010 and 2009 data is affected by the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of 2010. Book value per share, excluding Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) is a non-GAAP measure. See Item 7. MD A   Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional information. Comparability of 2010, 2009 and 2008 is
affected by a one for twenty reverse stock split.   

(b)     Reduced
by fourth quarter reserve strengthening charges of $4.2 billion and $2.2 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to the annual review of AIG Property
Casualty loss and loss adjustment reserves.   

  (c)     Amounts
for periods after December 31, 2008 have been revised to reflect reclassification of income taxes from AOCI to additional paid in capital to correct the presentation of
components of AIG Shareholders' Equity. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the reclass.   

(d)     See
Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   AIG Property Casualty Operations for a reconciliation of the adjusted combined ratio.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
48  

Table of Contents   

Changes In Accounting For Acquisition Costs     

  Reflects changes from the adoption of the new accounting standard related to deferred acquisition costs for 2009 and 2008, as set out in further detail below.
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the effect of the adoption of the new accounting standards on 2011 and 2010 periods, which is also reflected in the data
presented above.   

(a)     Includes
the effect of the reclassification of ILFC as discontinued operations.   

  (b)     Includes
an adjustment to the loss accrual related to the sale of Nan Shan of $2.3 billion.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
49  

Table of Contents   

Items Affecting Comparability Between Periods     

  The following are significant developments that affected multiple periods and financial statement captions. Other items that affected comparability are included
in the footnotes to the table presented immediately above.   

Market Events in 2008 and 2009

AIG was significantly affected by the market turmoil in late 2008 and early 2009 and recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2008
related primarily to collateralized mortgage-backed securities, other structured securities and securities of financial institutions; losses related to the change in AIG's intent and ability to hold
to recovery certain securities; and losses related to AIG's securities lending program.   

  In
2008, AIG also recognized unrealized market valuation losses representing the change in fair value of its super senior credit default swap portfolio, established a deferred tax valuation allowance
and experienced an unprecedented strain on liquidity. This strain led to several transactions with the FRBNY and the Department of the Treasury. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of these transactions and relationships.   

FRBNY Activity and Effect on Interest Expense in 2008, 2009 and 2010

The decline in interest expense in 2010 was due primarily to a reduced weighted-average interest rate on borrowings, a lower average outstanding balance and a decline in
amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset related to the partial repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility. On January 14, 2011, AIG repaid the remaining $20.7 billion and terminated
this facility, resulting in a net $3.3 billion pretax charge in the first quarter of 2011, representing primarily the accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset
included in Net loss on extinguishment of debt. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Recapitalization.   

  As
a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the preferred interests (the SPV Preferred Interests) in the special purpose vehicles that held remaining AIA shares and
the proceeds of the AIA initial public offering and the ALICO sale (the SPVs) were transferred to the Department of the Treasury. After such closing, the SPV Preferred Interests were not considered
permanent equity on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet and were classified as redeemable non-controlling interests.   

Asset Dispositions in 2010, 2011 and 2012

On December 9, 2012, we announced the agreement to sell up to 90% of ILFC and executed multiple asset dispositions in 2010 and 2011, as further discussed in
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the completion of an initial public offering of AIA in 2010 for which AIG recognized an $18.1 billion gain.   

Adjustment to Federal Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012

As further discussed in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG concluded that $18.4 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance for
the U.S. consolidated income tax group should be released through the Consolidated Statement of Operations in 2011. The valuation allowance resulted primarily from losses subject to U.S. income taxes
recorded from 2008 through 2010.   

Capitalization and Book Value Per Share

As a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the remaining SPV Preferred Interests held by the FRBNY of approximately $26.4 billion
were purchased by AIG and transferred to the Department of the Treasury. The SPV Preferred Interests were no longer considered permanent equity on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and were classified
as redeemable non-controlling interests. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
50  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents pro forma ratios as if the Recapitalization had been consummated in 2008 and a reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share,
excluding Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which is a non-GAAP measure. See Item 7. MD A   Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional
information.*   

*         Amounts
for periods after December 31, 2008 have been revised to reflect reclassification of income taxes from AOCI to additional paid in capital to correct the presentation of
components of AIG Shareholders' Equity. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the reclass.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
51  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7  / MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available documents may include, and officers and representatives of American International
Group, Inc. (AIG) may from time to time make, projections, goals, assumptions and statements that may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These projections, goals, assumptions and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIG's belief regarding future events, many of which, by their
nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIG's control. These projections, goals, assumptions and statements include statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as "believe,"
"anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "view," "target" or "estimate." These projections, goals, assumptions and statements may address, among other things:   

the monetization of AIG's
interests in International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC), including whether AIG's proposed sale of up to 90 percent of ILFC will be completed and if completed, the timing and final terms of such sale;                   AIG's exposures to subprime mortgages, monoline insurers, the
residential and commercial real estate markets, state and municipal bond issuers and sovereign bond issuers;                   AIG's exposure to European governments and European financial institutions;  
     
                 AIG's strategy for risk
management;                   AIG's generation of
deployable capital;                   AIG's return on
equity and earnings per share long-term aspirational goals;                   AIG's strategies to grow net investment income, efficiently manage capital and reduce expenses;                   AIG's strategies for customer retention, growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves; and                  the revenues and combined ratios of AIG's subsidiaries.  

It is possible that AIG's actual results and financial condition will differ, possibly materially, from the results and financial condition indicated in these
projections, goals, assumptions and statements. Factors that could cause AIG's actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections, goals, assumptions and statements
include:   

changes in market conditions;
                  the occurrence of catastrophic events,
 both natural and man-made;                   significant legal proceedings;                   the timing and applicable requirements of any new regulatory framework to which AIG is subject as a savings and loan holding company (SLHC), and if such a determination is made, as a systemically important financial institution (SIFI);
                  concentrations in AIG's investment
portfolios;                   actions by credit rating
agencies;  
     
                 judgments concerning casualty
insurance underwriting and insurance liabilities;                
  judgments concerning the recognition of deferred tax assets;                   judgments concerning deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) recoverability; and                   such other factors discussed in:                   this Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD  and                   Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any projections, goals, assumptions or other statements, whether
written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
52  

Table of Contents    

   The MD A is organized as follows:     

INDEX TO ITEM 7   

Throughout the MD A, we use certain terms and abbreviations which are summarized in the Glossary and Acronyms on pages 195 and 199, respectively.   

  AIG
has incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K to assist readers seeking
additional information related to a particular subject.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
53  

Table of Contents   

Use of Non-GAAP Measures     

  In Item 6. Selected Financial Data and throughout this MD A, we present AIG's financial condition and results of operations in the way we believe will be
most meaningful, representative and most transparent. Some of the measurements we use are "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC rules and regulations. GAAP is the acronym for "accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States." The non-GAAP financial measures we present may not be comparable to similarly-named measures reported by other companies.   

Book Value Per Share Excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
(AOCI)    is presented in Item 6. Selected Financial Data and is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per-share basis. We
believe Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of non-cash items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, including
changes in fair value of our available for sale portfolio and foreign currency translation adjustments. Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI is derived by dividing Total AIG shareholders' equity,
excluding AOCI, by Total common shares outstanding. The reconciliation to book value per share, the most comparable GAAP measure, is presented in Item 6. Selected Financial Data.   

  We
use the following operating performance measures because we believe they enhance understanding of the underlying profitability of continuing operations and trends of AIG and our business segments.
We believe they also allow for more meaningful comparisons with our insurance competitors. When we use these measures,
reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure are provided in the Results of Operations section of this MD A.   

AIG        After-tax operating income
(loss)    is derived by excluding the following items from net income (loss): income (loss) from discontinued operations, net loss (gain) on sale of
divested businesses, income from divested businesses, legacy FIN 48 and other tax adjustments, legal reserves (settlements) related to "legacy crisis matters," deferred income tax valuation
allowance (releases) charges, amortization of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York prepaid commitment fee asset, changes in fair value of AIG Life and Retirement fixed income securities designated to
hedge living benefit liabilities, change in benefit reserves and deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and sales inducement assets (SIA) related to net realized
capital (gains) losses, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net realized capital (gains) losses, non-qualifying derivative hedging activities, excluding net realized capital (gains)
losses and bargain purchase gain. "Legacy crisis matters" include favorable and unfavorable settlements related to events leading up to and resulting from our September 2008 liquidity crisis. It also
includes legal fees incurred by AIG as the plaintiff in connection with such legal matters.   

AIG Property Casualty    

Operating income (loss):     In 2012,
AIG Property Casualty revised its non-GAAP income measure from underwriting income (loss) to operating income (loss), which includes both underwriting income (loss) and net investment
income, but not net realized capital (gains) losses or other (income) expense, legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters described above and bargain purchase gain. Underwriting income (loss)
is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and claims adjustment expense and underwriting expenses; which consist of the acquisition costs and general operating expenses;    

Ratios:     AIG Property Casualty,
along with most property and casualty insurance companies, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. These ratios are relative measurements
that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the amount of claims and claims adjustment expense, and the amount of other underwriting expenses that would be incurred. A combined ratio of less
than 100 indicates an underwriting profit and a combined ratio of over 100 indicates an underwriting loss. The underwriting environment varies across countries and products, as does the degree of
litigation activity, all of which affect such ratios. In addition, investment returns, local taxes, cost of capital, regulation, product type and competition can have an effect on pricing and
consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and associated ratios.     

Accident year loss ratio, as
adjusted:     the loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year
development, net of premium adjustments and the impact of reserve discount.    

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
54  

Table of Contents   

Catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG Property Casualty in excess of $10 million each.   

Accident year combined ratio, as
adjusted:     the combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year
development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting.   

AIG Life and Retirement    

Operating income (loss):     In 2012,
we revised our definition of operating income (loss). Operating income (loss) is derived by excluding the following items from net income (loss): legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters
described above, changes in fair values of fixed maturity securities designated to hedge living benefit liabilities, net realized capital (gains) losses, and changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA,
and SIA related to net realized capital (gains) losses. We believe that Operating income (loss) is useful because excluding these volatile items permits investors to better assess the operating
performance of the underlying business by highlighting the results from ongoing operations.     

Premiums, deposits and other
considerations:     includes life insurance premiums and deposits on annuity contracts and mutual funds.    

Other Operations        Operating income (loss):   income (loss) excluding certain legal reserves (settlements) related to
legacy crisis matters described above, loss on extinguishment of debt, amortization of prepaid
commitment fee asset, Net realized capital (gains) losses, net (gains) losses on sale of divested businesses and properties, and income from divested businesses.    

  Results
from discontinued operations are excluded from all of these measures.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
55  

Table of Contents    

Executive Overview  

This overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to current or potential investors in AIG's securities. You should read this Annual Report on
Form 10-K in its entirety for a complete description of events, trends and uncertainties as well as the capital, liquidity, credit, operational and market risks and the critical accounting estimates affecting AIG and its subsidiaries.

Executive Summary   

   AIG made solid progress toward many of its strategic objectives in 2012.   

We fully repaid governmental support    as a result of the Department of the
Treasury's sale of its remaining shares of AIG common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock).*   

We improved our financial and operational performance   , leading to a third
consecutive year of profitability:  

AIG Property Casualty    reported improved operating income and the business
also has continued to experience positive pricing trends.   

AIG Life and Retirement    assets under management grew significantly in 2012
from deposits and net flows from individual variable annuities and retail mutual funds and appreciation due to higher equity markets. We enhanced spread income and actively managed through the low
interest rate environment.   

Mortgage Guaranty    reported new insurance written of $37.5 billion
for 2012 compared to $18.8 billion in 2011 and has experienced improving credit trends.   

Our investment portfolio performance    improved through the use of yield
enhancements, including the reduction of our concentration in lower-yielding tax-exempt municipal securities and the purchase of other higher-yielding securities. These purchases include
securities acquired through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's (FRBNY) auction of Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) assets. Realized capital gains increased because certain assets in
unrealized gain positions were sold as part of a program to utilize capital loss tax carryforwards.   

Our balance sheet is stronger    as a result of the issuance of unsecured
notes and the monetization of non-core assets.    

Our financial flexibility was enhanced    by $5.2 billion in cash
distributions from subsidiaries.   

We announced an agreement to sell ILFC, received final distributions on our interests in Maiden Lane II LLC (ML
II) and ML III, and sold our remaining interest in AIA Group Limited (AIA),    which will support our capital management initiatives,
sharpen our business focus, and enable us to redeploy assets in a more productive manner.   

We completed $13.0 billion in share purchases    using a portion of
the proceeds of our asset sales.   

*    The Department of the Treasury continues to hold warrants to purchase approximately 2.7 million shares of AIG
Common Stock.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
56  

Table of Contents    

Our Performance   Selected Indicators     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
57  

Table of Contents   

TOTAL REVENUES     ($ millions)   

*         Comparability
between 2011 and 2010 data is affected by the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of 2010.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
58  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents a reconciliation of pre-tax income (loss) to operating income (loss) by operating segment and
after-tax operating income (loss), which are non-GAAP measures. See Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional information.   

*         Reflects litigation settlement income recorded in 2012 from settlements with three financial institutions that participated in the creation,
offering and sale of RMBS as to which AIG and its subsidiaries suffered losses either for their own accounts or in connection with their participation in AIG's securities lending program.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
59  

Table of Contents   

PRE-TAX INCOME (LOSS)     ($ millions)   

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)     ($ millions)   

Prior Period Revisions

Prior period amounts have been revised to reflect the following:   

Accounting for Deferred Acquisition Costs

As discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG retrospectively adopted an accounting standard on January 1, 2012 that amended the
accounting for costs incurred by insurance companies that can be capitalized in connection with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts.   

AIG Property Casualty Operating Segment Changes

To align financial reporting with changes made during 2012 to the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the businesses to assess performance and make
decisions about resources to be allocated, certain products previously reported in Commercial Insurance were reclassified to Consumer Insurance. These revisions did not affect the total AIG Property
Casualty reportable segment results previously reported.   

  In
the fourth quarter of 2012, to increase the focus on the drivers of the losses and proactively mitigate reserve development and legal costs, the management of certain environmental liability
businesses written prior to 2004 was moved from Commercial Insurance to a separate claims organization. To align financial reporting with the internal management changes, this environmental
(1987-2004) business is reported in the Other category. These revisions did not affect our total reportable segment results previously reported.   

Sale of ILFC and Discontinued Operations Presentation

On December 9, 2012, AIG entered into an agreement to sell 80.1 percent of ILFC for approximately $4.2 billion in cash, with an option for the purchaser
to buy an additional 9.9 percent stake (the ILFC Transaction). The sale is expected to close in 2013. At the closing of the transaction, in connection with the termination of intercompany
arrangements between AIG and ILFC, AIG will return $1.1 billion to ILFC. As a result, ILFC operating results, which were previously presented in the Aircraft Leasing segment, have been
classified as discontinued operations in all periods, and associated assets and liabilities have been classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2012. See Note 4
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
60  

Table of Contents   

Changes in Fair Value of Derivatives

To align the presentation of changes in the fair value of derivatives with changes in the administration of AIG's derivatives portfolio, changes were made to the
presentation within the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Specifically, amounts attributable to derivative activity where AIG Financial Products Corp. and
AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively AIGFP) is an intermediary for AIG subsidiaries have been reclassified from Other income to Net realized capital gains
(losses).   

Liquidity and Capital Resources Highlights     

  In
March 2012, AIG paid down in full the $8.6 billion remaining preferred interests (the AIA SPV Preferred Interests) in the special purpose vehicle holding the proceeds of the AIA initial
public offering (the AIA SPV) held by the Department of the Treasury.   

  In
addition, in 2012, the Department of the Treasury, as selling shareholder, sold its remaining shares of AIG common stock by completing five registered public offerings in March, May, August,
September and December (collectively, the 2012 Offerings). The Department of the Treasury sold approximately 1.5 billion shares of AIG Common Stock for aggregate proceeds of approximately
$45.8 billion in the 2012 Offerings. We purchased approximately 421 million shares of AIG Common Stock at an average price of $30.86 per share for an aggregate purchase amount of
approximately $13.0 billion in the first four of the 2012 Offerings. We did not purchase any shares in the December 2012 offering.   

  In
2012, AIG received $10.1 billion in distributions from the FRBNY's final disposition of ML II and ML III assets. Also in 2012, we sold our entire remaining interest in AIA ordinary shares
for gross proceeds of approximately $14.5 billion.   

Additional
discussion and other liquidity and capital resources developments are included in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources herein.   

Investment Highlights     

  Net investment income increased 38 percent to $20.3 billion in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily through our previous investments in ML III and
AIA. The overall credit rating of our fixed maturity portfolio was largely unchanged, and other-than- temporary impairments declined compared to prior year levels.   

Our insurance operations achieved a $1.3 billion increase in net investment income in spite
of the challenges presented by a continuing low rate environment.    Net investment income improved due to the impact of yield enhancement initiatives and higher base yields.
While corporate debt securities represented the core of new investment allocations, we continued to focus on risk weighted opportunistic investments in residential mortgage-backed (RMBS) and other
structured securities to improve yields. These included purchases of assets sold in the ML II and ML III auctions by the FRBNY.   
            The unrealized appreciation of our investment portfolio grew from approximately
$5.5 billion in 2011 to approximately $10.7 billion in 2012.    This was driven by declining interest rates and narrowing spreads in both investment grade and high
yield asset portfolios. We realized higher gains on the sales of securities compared to the prior year as we repositioned assets to meet strategic and tactical asset allocation objectives.
Other-than-temporary Impairments were lower than the prior year, in part driven by favorable developments in the housing sector which drove strong performance in our structured
products portfolios.   
            The overall credit ratings of our fixed maturity investments were largely unchanged from last
year,    reflecting a continued focus on long term risk adjusted portfolio performance.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
61  

Table of Contents    

Risk Management Highlights     

Our Risk Management Process

Risk management is an integral part of managing our businesses. It is a key element of our approach to corporate governance. We have an
integrated process for managing risks throughout the organization. The framework of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system provides senior management with a consolidated view of our major risk positions.       Our risk management process includes:                  An enhanced risk governance structure that supports consistent and transparent decision making.    We have recently revised our corporate policies to
ensure that accountability for the implementation and oversight of each policy is better aligned with individual corporate executives while specialized risk governance committees already in operation receive regular reporting regarding policy
compliance.                    Risk committees at our
corporate level as well as in each business unit that manage the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture encompassing all significant risk categories.    Our Board of Directors oversees the management of risk
through the complementary functioning of the Finance and Risk Management Committee (the FRMC) and the Audit Committee, as well as through its regular interaction with other committees of the Board.                    A capital and liquidity stress testing framework to assess our aggregate
exposure to our most significant risks.    We conduct enterprise-wide stress tests under a range of scenarios to better understand the resources needed to support our subsidiaries and consolidated company.  

Risk Management   

We remain committed to adhering to the
highest standards of risk management and corporate governance.                   We continue to promote awareness and accountability for key risk and business decisions, and performance than in the past.                   We manage risks better by applying performance metrics that enable us to assess
risk more clearly and address evolving market conditions. 

Strategic Outlook     

Industry Trends

Our business is affected by industry and economic factors such as interest rates, credit and equity market conditions, regulation, tax policy, competition, and general
economic, market and political conditions. In 2012, and continuing into 2013, we operated under difficult market conditions, characterized by factors such as low interest rates, instability in the
global markets due to the European debt crisis, and slow growth in the U.S. economy.   

  The
prevailing interest rate climate has a particularly significant effect on our industry. Investment returns have declined as the U.S. fixed income market remains in a low interest rate environment.
In addition, current market conditions may not necessarily permit insurance companies to increase pricing across all our product lines.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
62  

Table of Contents   

AIG Priorities for 2013  

AIG is focused on the following priorities for 2013:  

Strengthen and improve the operating
performance of our core businesses;  

Consummate the sale of up to
90 percent of our interest in ILFC;  

Enhance the yield on our investments
while maintaining focus on credit quality;  

Manage AIG's capital and interest
expense more efficiently by redeploying excess capital in areas that promote profitable growth;  

Work with the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System (the FRB) in its capacity as AIG's principal regulator; and  

Reduce recurring operating expenses by
leveraging AIG's scale and driving increased standardization through investments in infrastructure.  

Strategic Outlook for Our Operating Businesses     

  The strategic outlook for each of our businesses and management initiatives to improve growth and performance in 2013 and over the longer term are described
below.   

AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY STRATEGIC OUTLOOK

We expect that the current low interest rate environment and ongoing uncertainty in global economic conditions will continue to challenge the growth of net investment income
and limit growth in some markets through at least 2013. These conditions, coupled with overcapacity in the property casualty insurance industry business, are leading carriers to tighten terms and
conditions, shed unprofitable business and develop advanced data analytics in order to improve profitability.   

  We
have observed improving trends in certain key indicators that may offset the effect of current economic challenges. Commencing in the second quarter of 2011, and continuing since, we have benefited
from favorable pricing trends, particularly in our U.S. commercial business. The property casualty insurance industry is beginning to experience modest growth as a result of this positive rate trend
and an increase in overall exposures in some markets. We expect that expansion in certain growth economies will occur at a faster pace than in developed countries, although at levels lower than those
previously expected due to revised economic assumptions.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
63  

Table of Contents   

  AIG
Property Casualty is focused on the following strategic initiatives:   

Business Mix Shift   
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .      We expect that shifting our mix of business to higher value lines and geographies of opportunity will generate business with more favorable underwriting results. However, as a result of the
business mix shift to consumer products, higher value commercial products, and the investment in growth economy nations, policy acquisition expenses, including direct marketing costs, are expected to continue to increase.      

Underwriting Excellence   
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .      We anticipate that refining technical pricing account management tools and marketing analytics will further enhance our risk selection process. We believe that accident year loss ratios will
continue to improve due to these actions.      

Claims Best Practices   
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .      We expect to reduce loss costs by realizing greater efficiencies in servicing customer claims, introducing fraud detection tools and developing knowledge of the economic drivers of losses, which
will proactively mitigate reserve development and legal costs, and establish effective pricing strategies.      

Operating Expense Discipline   
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .      We continue to make strategic investments in systems, processes and talent worldwide, which will result in elevated operating expense in the short-term, but is expected to create additional
value and greater efficiency beginning in 2014.  

AIG Property Casualty 
Opportunities   

Continue shifting toward higher value
business to increase profitability.                   Expand in attractive growth economies, specifically in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Latin America.                   Enhance risk selection and pricing to earn returns commensurate to the risk assumed.                   Implement improved claims practices and advanced technology to lower the loss
ratio.                   Apply operating expense
discipline and drive efficiencies by leveraging our global footprint.              
    Optimize the investment portfolio by aligning it with our risk appetite and tax objectives. 

Capital Efficiency

We plan to continue to execute capital management initiatives by enhancing broad-based risk tolerance guidelines for our operating units, implementing underwriting
strategies to increase return on equity by line of business and reducing exposure to businesses with inadequate pricing and increased loss trends. In addition, we remain focused on enhancing our
global reinsurance strategy to improve capital efficiency.   

  We
continue to streamline our legal entity structure, to enhance transparency with regulators and optimize capital and tax efficiency. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we completed 41
legal entity and branch restructuring transactions. We completed the integration of our European operations into a single pan-European insurance company, AIG Europe Limited, and continued
the restructuring activities in the Asia Pacific region, including focusing on the strategy to consolidate the Japan operations under one holding company. During 2012, our
restructuring and capital management initiatives enabled certain subsidiaries in Europe and the Asia Pacific region to return $575 million of capital to be used for general corporate purposes.
We continue to implement restructuring plans in each region and the overall end state structure is expected to be mostly completed by the end of 2014.   

Our Investment Strategy for AIG Property Casualty

Consistent with AIG's worldwide insurance investment policy, we place primary emphasis on investments in fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and
other governmental agencies, and to a lesser extent, common stocks, private equity, hedge funds and other alternative investments. We also attempt to enhance returns through investments in a
diversified portfolio of private equity funds, hedge funds, and partnerships. Although these   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
64  

Table of Contents   

  investments
are subject to periodic volatility, they have historically achieved yields in excess of the base portfolio yields. Our expectation is that these alternative investments will continue to
outperform the base portfolio yields over the long-term.   

  Opportunistic
investments in structured securities and other yield-enhancement opportunities continue to be made with the objective of increasing net investment income. Overall base yields increased
in 2012 due to the portfolio mix shift away from tax-exempt municipal bonds toward taxable instruments; overall investment purchases were made at expected yields higher than the weighted
average yields of the existing portfolio.   

  In
2013, we expect to continue to refine our investment strategy, which includes asset diversification and yield-enhancement opportunities that meet our liquidity, duration and credit quality
objectives as well as current risk-return and tax objectives.   

See
Segment Results   AIG Property Casualty Operations   AIG Property Casualty Results - AIG Property Casualty Investing and Other Results and
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT STRATEGIC OUTLOOK

AIG Life and Retirement's businesses and the life and annuity industry continue to be affected by the current economic environment of low
interest rates and volatile equity markets. Continued low interest rates put pressure on long-term investment returns, negatively affect future sales of interest rate-sensitive products and reduce future profits on certain existing business. Also,
products such as payout annuities and traditional life insurance that are not rate-adjustable may require increases in reserves if future investment yields are insufficient to support current valuation interest rates. Equity market volatility may
result in higher reserves for variable annuity guarantee features, and both equity market volatility and low interest rates can affect the recoverability and amortization rate of DAC assets.       During 2012, AIG Life and Retirement implemented a number of management actions to proactively address the impact of low interest rates. These actions include a continued disciplined approach to
new business pricing of interest sensitive products (e.g. fixed annuities), active management of renewal crediting rates, increased pricing in certain life insurance products and re-filing of products to continue lowering minimum rate
guarantees.  

AIG Life and Retirement 
Opportunities   

Grow assets under management                   Increase life insurance in force                   Enhance return on equity 

AIG Life and Retirement is focused on the following strategic initiatives:   

Growth of Assets Under Management  

AIG
Life and Retirement plans to fully leverage its unified all-channel distribution organization to increase sales of profitable products across all channels.
In addition, management will pursue select institutional market opportunities where AIG Life and Retirement's scale and capacity provides a competitive market advantage. AIG Life and Retirement is
well positioned to capitalize on the growing demand for income solutions while certain competitors are scaling back in this market. AIG Life and Retirement will continue to manage the risks associated
with variable annuity living benefits through innovative product designs and hedging strategies. Given the size and diversity of AIG Life and Retirement's overall product portfolio, variable annuity
reserves are a relatively small portion of its total reserves compared to others in this market. As a result of a broad distribution network and a more favorable competitive environment, AIG Life and
Retirement expects variable annuity sales to remain strong for 2013.   

Increase Life Insurance In force

AIG Life and Retirement's strategic focus related to life insurance and other mortality-based products includes disciplined underwriting, active expense management and
product innovation. AIG Life and Retirement's distribution   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
65  

Table of Contents   

  strategy
is to grow new sales by strengthening the core retail independent and career agent distributor channels and expanding its market presence through the development of innovative life insurance
offerings based on consumer focused research to drive superior, differentiated product solutions. In addition, AIG Life and Retirement is enhancing its service and technology platform through the
consolidation of its life operations and administrative systems, which is expected to result in a more efficient, cost-competitive and agile operating model.   

Enhance Return on Equity

AIG Life and Retirement expects to leverage its streamlined legal entity structure to enhance financial strength and durability capital efficiency and ease of doing
business. AIG Life and Retirement completed the merger of six life insurance operating legal entities into American General Life Insurance Company effective December 31, 2012. This merger will
allow for more effective capital and dividend planning while creating operating efficiencies and making it easier for producers and customers to do business with AIG Life and Retirement. AIG Life and
Retirement also plans to improve operational efficiencies and service through investments in technology, more productive use of existing resources and further use of lower-cost operations
centers.   

Our Investment Strategy for AIG Life and Retirement

AIG Life and Retirement places primary emphasis on investments in fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies,
structured securities collateralized by, among others, residential and commercial real estate, and to a lesser extent, commercial mortgage loans, private equity, hedge funds, other alternative
investments, and common and preferred stock.   

  Our
fundamental investment strategy is to maintain primarily a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities and, as nearly as is practicable, to match the duration characteristics
of our liabilities with assets of comparable duration. In addition, AIG Life and Retirement enhances its returns through investments in a diversified
portfolio of private equity funds, hedge funds and affordable housing partnerships. Although returns on these investments are more volatile than our base fixed maturity securities portfolio, they have
historically achieved higher total returns and yields than the base portfolio yields. AIG Life and Retirement's expectation is that these alternative investments will continue to outperform the base
portfolio yields over the long-term.   

  Opportunistic
investments in structured securities and other yield enhancement opportunities continue to be made with the objective of increasing net investment income. Overall base yields increased
in 2012 due to the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short term investments during 2011. However, base yields have been declining in the latter half of 2012 as investment purchases were
made at yields lower than the weighted average yield of the existing portfolio. During prolonged periods of low or declining interest rates, AIG Life and Retirement has to invest net flows and
reinvest interest and principal payments from its investment portfolio in lower yielding securities.   

  See
Segment Results   AIG Life and Retirement Operations and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

Other Operations

Mortgage Guaranty

The following are expected to continue to affect results for 2013:                  

Market developments      UGC is a market leader in the mortgage insurance industry with a differentiated risk-based pricing model that is designed to produce high quality new
 business. The withdrawal of certain competitors from the market during 2011 combined with UGC's investment grade rating and risk-based pricing has positioned UGC to take advantage of market opportunities. UGC plans to continue to execute this
 strategy during 2013 and to further enhance its market position. UGC will continue to review its new business pricing relative to changes in the market to ensure that the price of coverage is commensurate with the level of risk being
 underwritten.  

Mortgage Guaranty 
Opportunities   

Increase market share through competitor
differentiation.                   Improve the risk
profile of new insurance written.                   Build our market leadership position. 

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
66  

Table of Contents   

Delinquent inventory review      During 2011 and 2012, UGC
requested that lenders file claims, in accordance with the terms of the respective master policies, on approximately 21,000 accounts that had been delinquent approximately 24 months or more and
were not expected to cure. Many of these delinquencies were the result of the foreclosure moratorium discussed below. Through December 31, 2012, UGC received responses to approximately
96 percent of these requests. While accelerating the payment of claims, these requests also impacted the cure rate of the delinquent inventory which in turn impacted UGC's estimate of reserve
for loss and loss adjustment expenses. During 2013, reserve development may continue to have an impact on the business. UGC expects that newly reported delinquent loans will continue to decline during
2013 and that the delinquent inventory will decline further albeit at a slower rate than in 2012. However, the extent of the decline in delinquencies and the number of newly reported delinquencies is
dependent on the prevailing macroeconomic conditions and the extent that the domestic economy does or does not improve. UGC will closely monitor these trends and the impact on its incurred loss and
loss expenses in 2013.   

Foreclosure delays          Since 2010, a variety of servicing
practices have come to light that have delayed the foreclosure process in many states. Some of these practices, such as the "robo-signing" of affidavits in judicial foreclosures, have
resulted in government investigations into lenders' foreclosure practices. These developments have slowed the reporting of foreclosures, which has in turn slowed the filing of mortgage insurance
claims and increased the uncertainty surrounding the determination of the liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses. UGC's assumptions regarding future foreclosures on current delinquencies
take into consideration this trend, although significant uncertainty remains surrounding the determination of the liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses. UGC expects that this
trend may continue for 2013 and may negatively affect UGC's future financial results. Final resolution of these issues is uncertain and UGC cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate financial impact
that any resolution, individually or collectively, may have on its future results of operations or financial condition.    

Global Capital Markets (GCM)

AIG Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG and its subsidiaries and third parties to provide hedging services. The derivative portfolio of AIG Markets
consists primarily of interest rate and currency derivatives.   

  The
remaining derivatives portfolio of AIGFP consists primarily of hedges of the assets and liabilities of the DIB and a portion of the legacy hedges for AIG and its subsidiaries. Future hedging needs
for AIG and its subsidiaries will be executed through AIG Markets. AIGFP's derivative portfolio consists primarily of interest rate, currency, credit, commodity and equity derivatives. Additionally,
AIGFP has a credit default swap portfolio being managed for economic benefit and with limited risk. The AIGFP portfolio continues to be wound down and is managed consistent with our risk management
objectives. Although the portfolio may experience periodic fair value volatility, it consists predominantly of transactions that we believe are of low complexity, low risk or currently not
economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis.   

Direct Investment Book (DIB)

The DIB portfolio is being wound down and is managed with the objective of ensuring that at all times it maintains the liquidity we believe is necessary to meet all its
liabilities, as they come due, even
under stress scenarios and to maximize return consistent with our risk management objectives. We are focused on meeting the DIB's liquidity needs, including the need for contingent liquidity arising
from collateral posting for debt positions of the DIB without relying on resources beyond the DIB. As part of this program management, we may from time to time access the capital markets, subject to
market conditions. In addition, we may seek to buy back debt or sell assets on an opportunistic basis, subject to market conditions.   

  From
time to time, we may utilize cash allocated to the DIB that is not required to meet the risk target for general corporate purposes unrelated to the DIB.   

  Certain
non-derivative assets and liabilities of the DIB are accounted for under the fair value option and thus operating results are subject to periodic market volatility. The overall
hedging activity for the assets and liabilities of the DIB is executed by GCM. The value of hedges related to the non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP in the DIB are included
within the assets and liabilities and operating results of GCM and are not included within the DIB operating results, assets or liabilities.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
67  

Table of Contents    

Results of Operations  

The following section provides a comparative discussion of our Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2012. Factors that relate primarily to a specific business segment are discussed in more detail
within that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates that affect the Results of Operations, see the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Item 7. MD A, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The following table presents AIG's condensed consolidated results of operations:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
68  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Income
from continuing operations before income taxes for 2012 and 2011 reflected the following:   

pre-tax income from insurance
operations of $5.6 billion in 2012, which included catastrophe losses of $2.7 billion, largely arising from Storm Sandy, and severe losses of $326 million, compared to pre-tax income from insurance operations of $4.8 billion in
2011, which included catastrophe losses of $3.3 billion, largely arising from Hurricane Irene, U.S. tornadoes and the Great Tohoku Earthquake   Tsunami in Japan (the Tohoku Catastrophe) and severe losses of $296 million;
                  increases in fair value of AIG's
interest in AIA ordinary shares of $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in fair value in 2012 included a gain on sale of AIA ordinary shares of approximately $0.8 billion;   
              an increase in fair value of AIG's interest in ML III of
$2.9 billion in 2012, compared to a decrease in fair value of $646 million in the same period of 2011;                  an increase in estimated litigation liability of approximately $783 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 based on developments in several actions;
                  litigation settlement income of
$210 million in 2012 from settlements with three financial institutions who participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS from which AIG and its subsidiaries suffered losses either for their own accounts or in connection with their
participation in AIG's securities lending program; and                
  a $3.3 billion net loss, primarily consisting of the accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the credit facility provided by the FRBNY (the FRBNY Credit
Facility) in 2011. This was partially offset by a $484 million gain on extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the exchange of subordinated debt.  

A Year of Progress   

For the third consecutive year we posted a
full year profit.                   Our total AIG
Property Casualty accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, improved each year during the past three years.                   We enhanced spread income and actively managed through the low interest rate environment.                   Our investment portfolio performance improved due to the completion of the cash
deployment in 2011. 

For the year ended December 31, 2012, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was 16.8 percent. This rate
differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits of $1.9 billion related to a decrease in the life-insurance-business capital loss carryforward valuation allowance and
$302 million associated with tax exempt interest income. These items were partially offset by charges in uncertain tax positions of $586 million and $172 million associated with
the effect of foreign operations.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was not meaningful, due to the significant effect of releasing
approximately $18.4 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Other factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory rate included tax benefits of $454 million
associated with tax exempt interest income, $386 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, and $224 million related to our investment in subsidiaries and partnerships.   

  In
2012, AIG recorded a loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, of $4.1 billion, which included a pre-tax loss of $6.7 billion on the announced sale of ILFC.   

After-tax
operating income for 2012 was $6.6 billion compared to $2.1 billion for 2011.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
69  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2011 and 2010 Comparison     

Income
from continuing operations before income taxes for 2011 and 2010 reflected the following:  

pre-tax income from insurance operations of $4.8 billion in 2011 which included the catastrophe losses
described above, compared to $2.6 billion in 2010, which included catastrophe losses of $1.1 billion;   
           a $3.3 billion net loss on extinguishment of debt from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility on
January 14, 2011. This was partially offset by a $484 million gain on extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the exchange of junior subordinated debt;    
           $604 million in unfavorable fair value adjustments on AIG's economic interest in ML II and equity interest in ML
III (together, the Maiden Lane Interests);   
           our 2010 results included gains of $19.6 billion on sales of divested businesses. These included a
$18.1 billion gain from the initial public offering and listing of AIA ordinary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on October 29, 2010, and a gain of $1.3 billion recognized
in 2010 related to the sale of our headquarters building in Tokyo in 2009, which gain had been deferred until the expiration of certain lease provisions; and    
           we had income in 2010 from divested businesses prior to their sale totaling $2.4 billion, primarily representing
AIA.    

  Partially
offsetting these declines were:  

a decrease in interest expense of $4.1 billion primarily resulting from the January 2011 repayment of the FRBNY
Credit Facility;   
           an increase in the fair value of AIA ordinary shares; and   
           a reduction in realized capital losses in 2011 compared to 2010.    

  As
discussed above, AIG released $18.4 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance for the U.S. consolidated income tax group in 2011.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was 34.5 percent. This rate differs from the statutory rate
primarily due to tax benefits of $1.3 billion associated with our investment in subsidiaries and partnerships, principally the AIA SPV which is treated as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes,
and $587 million associated with tax exempt interest, partially offset by an increase in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance attributable to continuing operations of $1.4 billion.   

In
2011, AIG recorded income from discontinued operations net of taxes of $1.8 billion, which included a pre-tax gain of $3.5 billion recorded in the first quarter of 2011 on
the sale of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison). This compared to a net loss of $969 million in 2010, which included
goodwill impairment charges of $4.6 billion associated with the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO), AIG Star and AIG Edison.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
70  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents a reconciliation of income attributable to AIG from continuing operations to after-tax operating income (loss):   

After-tax operating income increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to increases in income from insurance operations and in the fair value
gains on AIG's interest in AIA ordinary shares and AIG's interest in ML III, discussed above. This was partially offset by an increase in income tax expenses in 2012 compared to an income tax benefit
in 2011.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2012, the effective tax rate on pre-tax operating income was 31.6 percent. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012,
attributable to pre-tax operating income differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax exempt interest income and other permanent tax items.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax operating income was (9.6) percent. The significant factors that contributed to the difference from the
statutory rate included tax benefits resulting from tax exempt interest income, tax benefits associated with non-controlling interests, as well as discrete tax benefits recorded during the
year.   

  We
reported after-tax operating income in 2011 compared to after-tax operating losses in 2010 primarily due to a net charge to strengthen AIG Property Casualty's loss reserves
in 2010, partially offset by higher catastrophe losses in 2011.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax operating income was 70.2 percent. The effective tax rate attributable to pre-tax
operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits associated with divested businesses, which are excluded from
after-tax operating income.   

Segment Results

AIG reports the results of its operations through two reportable segments: AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement. The Other operations category consists of
businesses and items not allocated to our reportable segments.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
71  

Table of Contents   

   The following table summarizes the operations of each reportable segment. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

A discussion of significant items affecting pre-tax segment income follows. Factors that affect operating income for a specific business segment are
discussed in the detailed business segment analysis.   

2012 and 2011 Pre-tax Income Comparison     

AIG Property Casualty          Pre-tax
income increased slightly in 2012 compared to 2011. The increase in pre-tax income was the result of lower underwriting losses due to the impact of lower catastrophe losses, underwriting
improvements related to rate increases and enhanced risk selection, higher net investment income due to asset diversification by reducing the concentration in tax-exempt municipal
instruments and increasing investments in private placement debt and structured securities. These increases were partially offset by higher acquisition costs as a result of the change in business mix
from Commercial Insurance to Consumer Insurance and higher general operating expenses and lower net realized capital gains.   

AIG Life and Retirement          Pre-tax
income increased in 2012 compared to 2011, principally due to efforts to actively manage net investment spreads. Results benefited from higher net investment income, lower interest credited, lower
reserves for death claims and the impact of more favorable separate account performance on DAC amortization and policyholder benefit reserves. These items were partially offset by significant proceeds
from a legal settlement in 2011, higher mortality costs and an increase in GIC reserves.   

Other Operations          Other Operations recorded
pre-tax income in 2012 compared to a pre-tax loss in 2011 due to fair value and realized gains in our interest in AIA ordinary shares, and in our interest in ML III, partially
offset by an increase in estimated litigation liability, and a loss on extinguishment of debt of $3.3 billion in 2011 in connection with the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
72  

Table of Contents   

2011 and 2010 Pre-tax Income Comparison     

AIG Property Casualty          AIG Property Casualty
generated pre-tax income in 2011 compared to a pre-tax loss in 2010. The increase in pre-tax income was the result of lower underwriting losses primarily due to an
increase in premium revenues, resulting from the consolidation of Fuji commencing in the third quarter of 2010 and lower prior year adverse development in 2011. These increases in pre-tax
income were partially offset by higher catastrophe losses, and higher acquisition and general operating expenses due to a change in business mix.   

  Pre-tax
income also increased as a result of net realized gains in 2011 compared to realized capital losses in 2010 due to an increase in gains on sales of securities, economic hedges and
foreign exchange. In 2010, AIG Property Casualty recognized a bargain purchase gain from the acquisition of Fuji and a gain on divested properties.   

AIG Life and Retirement          Pre-tax
income increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to net realized capital gains in 2011 compared to net realized capital losses in 2010 as a result of a decline in
other-than-temporary impairments, partially offset by lower net investment income due to lower base yields and an increase in death claim reserves in conjunction with the use
of the Social Security Death Master File (SSDMF) to identify potential claims not yet filed with its life insurance companies.   

Other Operations          Other Operations recorded a
pre-tax loss in 2011 compared to pre-tax income in 2010 due to a net gain on sale of divested businesses in 2010, primarily related to AIA.   

AIG Property Casualty     

AIG Property Casualty 2012 Highlights     

  Net premiums written decreased for the year ended December 31, 2012 reflecting the continued execution of our strategic initiatives to improve business
mix, pricing and loss performance. Declines within Commercial Insurance due to certain lines of business that did not meet internal operating objectives were partially offset by an increase in
Consumer Insurance net premiums written.   

  The
loss ratio improved by 4.4 points for the year ended December 31, 2012, due to a decrease in catastrophe losses, the benefit from positive pricing trends, the execution of our strategic
initiatives and an increase in reserve discount. Catastrophe losses, adjusted for reinstatement premiums, were $2.7 billion in 2012, primarily as a result of Storm Sandy in the fourth quarter
of 2012, compared to $3.3 billion in 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, catastrophe losses contributed 7.5 and 9.2 points to the loss ratio, respectively. Net prior
year adverse development, including related premium adjustments was $445 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  The
acquisition ratio increased by 1.8 points for the year ended December 31, 2012, primarily due to the change in business mix to higher value lines and increased market competition, the
restructuring of the loss-sensitive business with low commission rates, and changes in our reinsurance strategy, all resulting in higher commissions.   

  The
general operating expense ratio increased by 2.4 points for the year ended December 31, 2012, as we continue to build, strengthen and streamline our financial and operating systems
infrastructure and control environment throughout the organization, particularly in financial reporting, policy and claims administration, and human resources as a result of our continued investment
in our employees. The total costs of these initiatives were approximately $455 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, an increase of approximately $233 million from the
prior year. In addition, bad debt expense increased by approximately $143 million from the prior year.   

  Net
investment income increased by 11.0 percent for the year ended December 31, 2012, due to asset diversification by reducing the concentration in tax-exempt municipal
instruments and increasing investments in private placement debt and structured securities.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
73  

Table of Contents   

  We
paid cash and non-cash dividends of $2.5 billion to AIG in the year ended December 31, 2012. As a result of Storm Sandy catastrophe losses, AIG contributed
$1.0 billion of capital in cash to its U.S. property casualty insurance subsidiaries in December 2012.   

AIG Property Casualty Operations     

  We present our financial information in two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance   as well as
an Other category.   

  We
will continue to assess the performance of our operating segments based on operating income (loss), loss ratio, acquisition ratio, general operating expense ratio and combined ratio.   

  We
are developing new value-based metrics that provide management shorter-term measures to evaluate our performance across multiple lines and various countries. As an example, we have
implemented a risk-adjusted profitability model as a business performance measure. Along with underwriting results, this risk-adjusted profitability model incorporates elements
of capital allocations, costs of capital and net investment income. We believe that such performance measures will allow us to better assess the true economic returns of our business.   

For
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, results reflect the effects of the full year of Fuji operations, while the corresponding 2010 period reflects the effects of Fuji for only two
quarters, because we began consolidating Fuji's operating results on July 1, 2010, following its acquisition. Fuji operations primarily relate to Consumer Insurance.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
74  

Table of Contents   

AIG Property Casualty Results

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty results:     

*         Includes
gain on divested properties of $669 million in 2010.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
75  

Table of Contents    

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

AIG Property Casualty Results   

  Operating income increased in 2012, primarily due to a decrease in catastrophe losses to $2.7 billion from $3.3 billion in the prior year. In addition, net
investment income increased due to asset diversification, from concentration in tax-exempt municipal instruments into investments in private placement debt and structured securities. This
was slightly offset by an increase in acquisition costs due to the change in business mix to higher value lines of business and the change in business mix from Commercial Insurance to Consumer
Insurance. General operating expenses increased due to the continued investment in strategic
initiatives and human resources, as a result of AIG's continued investment in its employees. For the year ended December 31, 2012, investments in strategic initiatives totaled approximately
$455 million, representing an increase of approximately $233 million over the prior year. In addition, bad debt expense increased by approximately $143 million from the prior
year. Net prior year adverse development, including premium adjustments, was $445 million for 2012 compared to $39 million for 2011.   

Commercial Insurance Results   

  Operating income decreased in 2012, primarily due to a decrease in allocated net investment income reflecting a decrease in the risk-free rate. Underwriting
losses increased slightly compared to the prior year, reflecting lower catastrophe and improved current accident year losses, the effect of rate increases and enhanced risk selection, and an increase
in reserve discount of $100 million, offset by higher acquisition and general operating expenses, and higher adverse prior year development.   

Acquisition
costs increased primarily as a result of higher commission expense due to the restructuring of the U.S. Casualty, primarily loss-sensitive business, as we move towards higher
value lines. General operating expenses increased due to an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $143 million and investments in strategic initiatives.   

Consumer Insurance Results   

  Consumer Insurance generated operating income in 2012 compared to an operating loss in 2011, reflecting a reduction in underwriting loss as well as an increase in allocated
net investment income resulting primarily from the strategic group benefits partnership with AIG Life and Retirement. Underwriting results improved due to the combination of lower catastrophe losses,
favorable loss reserve development, the effect of rate increases, enhanced risk selection and portfolio management. These improvements were offset in part by higher acquisition and general operating
expenses.   

  Acquisition
costs increased primarily due to an increase in warranty profit sharing arrangements, increased investment in direct marketing, and a decrease of approximately $49 million in the
benefit from the amortization of VOBA liabilities recognized at the time of the Fuji acquisition. General operating expenses increased in 2012 due to investments in infrastructure and strategic
expansion in growth economy nations.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

AIG Property Casualty Results   

  We recognized operating income in 2011 compared to an operating loss in 2010 primarily due to an increase in premium revenues, partially offset by higher acquisition and
general operating expenses. Prior year adverse loss development, net of premium adjustments, decreased from $4.8 billion in 2010 to $39 million in 2011. Catastrophe losses were
$3.3 billion in 2011 compared to $1.1 billion in 2010.   

  Acquisition
and general operating expenses increased in 2011, primarily due to the effect of including Fuji results for a full year. General operating expenses also increased due to investments in a
number of strategic initiatives during 2011, including the implementation of improved regional governance and risk management capabilities, the implementation of global accounting and claims systems,
preparation for Solvency II and certain other legal entity restructuring initiatives.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
76  

Table of Contents   

Commercial Insurance Results   

  Operating income increased in 2011, reflecting the effect of rate increases and enhanced risk selection. These items were partially offset by higher catastrophe losses,
higher acquisition expenses and a decrease in the allocated net investment income due to a decrease in the risk-free rate. In 2011, catastrophe losses, adjusted for reinstatement premiums,
were $2.6 billion compared to $1.0 billion in 2010, as 2011 included the impact of the Tohoku Catastrophe in Japan and the earthquakes in New Zealand. In 2011, net prior year favorable
development, including premium adjustments, was $455 million compared to net prior year adverse development of $2.6 billion in 2010.   

Consumer Insurance Results   

  Consumer Insurance recognized an operating loss in 2011 compared to operating income in 2010 primarily due to an increase in catastrophe losses, which includes the Tohoku
Catastrophe and Hurricane Irene. This was partially offset by an improvement in the accident year loss ratio, and an increase in allocated net investment income. Catastrophe losses for the year ended
December 31, 2011 were $715 million compared to $66 million during the prior year. Net prior year adverse development was $85 million in 2011 as compared to net prior year
favorable development of $63 million in 2010.   

  See
AIG Property Casualty Underwriting Ratios below for further information on prior year development.   

AIG Property Casualty Net Premiums Written

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty net premiums written by major line of business:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
77  

Table of Contents   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  In 2012, Commercial Insurance focused on the execution of the previously announced strategic objectives. The overall decrease in Casualty was partially offset by increases
in all the other lines of business.   

  Casualty
net premiums written decreased, as planned, primarily due to the execution of our strategy to improve loss ratios. Our enhanced risk selection process, and adherence to pricing targets
resulted in the non-renewal of approximately $800 million of net premiums written, primarily within the workers' compensation business in the Americas, and within the Primary
Casualty business in EMEA. In addition, the restructuring of the loss-sensitive programs decreased Casualty net premiums written by approximately $260 million in 2012. The
additional premiums associated with prior year development in the loss-sensitive business also decreased by approximately $120 million. We also entered into a quota share
reinsurance treaty in the U.S. for the Excess Casualty business that decreased net premiums written by approximately $60 million. We implemented rate increases in retained business, especially
in the U.S., that partially offset the premium decreases noted above.   

  Property
net premiums written increased due to rate increases, primarily in the U.S., reduced catastrophe bond purchases in 2012, and the restructuring of the per-risk reinsurance program
as part of our decision to retain more favorable risks while continuing to manage aggregate exposure. Catastrophe exposed business retained in the Americas and Asia Pacific region also benefitted from
rate increases.   

  We
have continued the strategy, adopted in 2010, to improve the allocation of our reinsurance between traditional reinsurance markets and capital markets. During 2011, as part of this strategy, we
secured a three-year catastrophe bond with an industry index, first occurrence trigger, providing for $575 million in protection for U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes. The bond
transaction reduced net premiums written by approximately $201 million in 2011. There were no catastrophe bond purchases in 2012.   

  Specialty
net premiums written increased in 2012 due to the restructuring of the aerospace reinsurance program to retain more favorable risks while continuing to manage aggregate exposure. This
increase was slightly offset by our strategic initiatives related to improved risk selection, particularly within products provided to small and medium sized enterprises in the Americas and EMEA
regions. We continue to shift our business mix towards higher value lines, particularly in aerospace.   

  Financial
lines net premiums written increased, reflecting strong business growth in all regions, despite targeted decreases where the business did not meet our risk selection and internal performance
criteria. Financial lines net premiums written for year ended December 31, 2011 benefited from a multi-year Errors and Omissions policy in the Americas that produced net premiums
written of $148 million.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
78  

Table of Contents   

Consumer Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  The Consumer Insurance business continued to grow its net premiums written and build momentum through its multiple distribution channels and continuing focus on direct
marketing. Consumer Insurance is well-diversified across the major lines of business and has global strategies that are executed across its regions to enhance customer relationships and
business performance. Consumer Insurance currently has direct marketing operations in over 50 countries, and we continued to emphasize the growth of this channel, which for the year ended
December 31, 2012, accounted for approximately 15 percent of our overall net premiums written.   

A H
net premiums written increased, due to the growth of group personal accident business in the Americas and Asia Pacific, strong growth of new business sales in Fuji Life, travel insurance business,
direct marketing programs in Japan and other Asia Pacific nations and growth in individual personal accident in other Asia Pacific nations. This was partially offset by the continuing strategies to
reposition U.S. direct marketing operations, as well as pricing and underwriting actions in Europe.   

  Personal
lines net premiums written increased primarily due to the execution of our strategic initiative to grow higher value lines of business in non-automobile products and rate
increases in Japan automobile products. Growth in non-automobile net premiums written outpaced growth in automobile net premiums written, increasing its proportion to total net premiums
written, due to our focus on diversifying the global product mix.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  In 2011, net premiums written increased due to the effects of overall improvements in ratable exposures (i.e., asset values, payrolls and sales), general pricing
improvement and retrospective premium adjustments on loss-sensitive contracts. We implemented certain initiatives designed to provide for a more effective use of capital, further growth in
the strategic higher value lines of business and improvement in foreign exchange rates.   

  Casualty
net premiums written decreased primarily due to our strategic initiatives in workers' compensation and certain other lines of business, as well as a continued commitment to maintain price
discipline in lines where market rates are unsatisfactory. However, given the capital intensive nature of these classes of casualty business, we expect that over time, these actions will improve our
results. Net premiums written decreased by approximately $0.6 billion as we ceased writing excess workers' compensation business as a stand-alone product. This was slightly offset by an
increase in additional premiums on loss-sensitive business in the amount of approximately $164 million compared to 2010.   

  Property
net premiums written increased due to particularly strong pricing trends in the U.S. and Japan, coupled with changes in the reinsurance strategy resulting in increased retentions. The
catastrophe bond transactions in 2011 and 2010 reduced net premiums written by approximately $201 million and $208 million, respectively.   

Specialty
net premiums written increased due to the strategic initiative to grow higher value lines, including aerospace, global marine, and credit insurance, all of which benefited from the impact of
rate increases as well as new business growth.   

  Financial
lines net premiums written increased primarily due to a multi-year Errors and Omissions policy in the Americas that produced net premiums written of $148 million in 2011.   

Consumer Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  Consumer Insurance net premiums written increased in 2011 primarily due to the effect of including Fuji results for a full year, improvement in foreign currency exchange
rates, primarily in the Japanese Yen, and further growth in the strategic higher value lines of business. Excluding the effect of the Fuji acquisition and foreign exchange, Consumer Insurance net
premiums written declined by one percent in 2011, primarily due to the non-renewal of certain programs in the U.S. and Canada that did not meet internal performance targets in Personal
lines business.   

  A H
net premiums written increased primarily due to the Fuji acquisition, direct marketing, group and individual accident, travel business, and the execution of new business strategies at Fuji Life.
Excluding the Fuji acquisition, A H net premiums written increased by approximately 7 percent, mainly attributable to favorable marketing programs and the benefits of rate increases implemented
in 2010 in Japan and the effect of foreign exchange. Growth was also demonstrated in key geographic markets such as China, Continental Europe and Israel.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
79  

Table of Contents   

  Personal
lines net premiums written increased primarily driven by the full year consolidation of Fuji results and growth in auto, personal property, and specialty personal lines products. Excluding
the effects of the Fuji acquisition, Personal Lines net premiums decreased one percent, primarily as a result of a management decision to not renew certain programs in the U.S. and Canada that did not
meet internal performance targets. Personal Lines continued to grow in key markets, including Japan and other Asia Pacific countries, Latin America, and in key lines, such as personal property and
specialty personal lines products.   

AIG Property Casualty Net Premiums Written by Region

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty's net premiums written by region:      

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
80  

Table of Contents   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  The Americas net premiums written decreased primarily due to the restructuring of the Commercial Insurance Casualty book of business primarily in
workers' compensation and loss-sensitive business, slightly offset by rate increases. These decreases were partially offset by continued growth in Consumer
Insurance, which was primarily attributable to increases to group accident, personal property, and private client group and warranty lines. Additional premium recognized on the
loss-sensitive book of business was $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to additional premium of $172 million in the prior year.   

  Asia
Pacific net premiums written increased for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to an increase in Consumer Insurance reflecting growth of personal property business, group
personal accident insurance, and direct marketing business in Japan. The expansion in Asia Pacific countries outside Japan also continued in the year ended December 31, 2012, supported by
growth in individual personal accident insurance, direct marketing and personal lines products. Commercial Insurance increased in the region primarily due to organic growth and rate increases in
Property and moderate organic growth in Specialty and Financial lines.   

  EMEA
net premiums written decreased primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. The continued execution of underwriting discipline and the reduction in certain casualty lines that did not meet
internal performance targets were offset by rate strengthening initiatives on new and renewal business for Commercial Insurance. Consumer Insurance experienced modest growth in travel, warranty, and
specialty personal lines products while focused on re-building its direct marketing programs that it previously shared with American Life Insurance Company (ALICO).   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

  The Americas net premiums written increased slightly as a result of modest growth in Commercial Insurance offset by a small decrease in Consumer
Insurance. The increase in Commercial Insurance was primarily due to the pricing improvements in Property and Specialty, which was slightly offset by a decrease in Casualty due to the strategic
initiative in workers' compensation. The decrease in Consumer insurance was primarily due to underwriting actions taken in private client group to meet performance targets and a decrease in warranty
lines new business in the U.S. and Canada, partially offset by continued growth in travel business and A H direct marketing in Latin America.   

  Asia
Pacific net premiums written increased as a result of the effect of the full year consolidation of Fuji. Excluding the effect of the Fuji acquisition, net premium written increased
13 percent. The increase in Commercial Insurance was due to rate increases in Property, primarily in Japan. Consumer Insurance business in Asia Pacific countries outside Japan also expanded,
supported by growth in nearly all lines of business, particularly individual personal accident insurance, travel, and auto products.   

  In
EMEA, the increase in Commercial Insurance was primarily related to growth in specialty products in line with our strategic initiative to grow higher value lines. Excluding the impact of foreign
exchange, Consumer Insurance decreased as the business was focused on rebuilding the direct marketing programs that we previously shared with ALICO and the non-renewal of certain business
to retain underwriting discipline. These decreases were largely offset by growth in group accident insurance, automobile and specialty personal lines products.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
81  

Table of Contents   

AIG Property Casualty Underwriting Ratios

The following table presents the AIG Property Casualty combined ratios based on GAAP data and reconciliation to the accident year combined ratio, as
adjusted:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
82  

Table of Contents   

Given the nature of the lines of business and the expenses included in Other, management has determined that the traditional underwriting measures of loss
ratio, acquisition ratio, general operating expense ratio and combined ratio do not provide an appropriate measure of underwriting performance. Therefore, these ratios are not separately presented for
Other.   

  See
Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense for further discussion of discounting of reserves and prior year development.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Ratios   

  The improvement in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, for the year ended December 31, 2012 reflects the realization of benefits from the continued execution
of our multi-faceted strategy to enhance risk selection, pricing discipline, exposure management and claims processing. Although the execution of these strategies resulted in a reduction of Casualty
net premiums written, it also improved the accident year loss ratio as we remediated our primary and excess Casualty books in both the Americas and EMEA regions. Financial lines improved due to rate
strengthening and restructuring and re-underwriting of certain products. Property improved due to rate strengthening, enhanced engineering and exposure management.   

The
acquisition ratio increased by 2.0 points primarily due to our strategy of growing higher value lines, which typically incur higher acquisition costs, and the restructuring of our Casualty lines,
especially the loss-sensitive   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
83  

Table of Contents   

  business
in the U.S. In addition, ceding commissions decreased as a result of restructuring of the Property and Specialty reinsurance program as part of the strategic decision to retain more
profitable business while continuing to manage aggregate exposures.   

  The
general operating expense ratio increased by 2.4 points due to increases in bad debt expense, investments in strategic initiatives and human resources, coupled with a lower net premiums earned
base. The lower net premiums earned base contributed approximately 0.2 points to the increase in the general operating expense ratio. Bad debt
expense increased by approximately $143 million, which contributed approximately 0.7 points to the general operating expense ratio increase in the year ended December 31, 2012. For the
year ended December 31, 2012, investments in strategic initiatives, commercial lines platform, our newly formed scientific group, underwriting and pricing tools totaled approximately
$51 million, representing an increase of approximately $41 million over the prior year. The remainder of the general operating expense ratio increase was primarily due to higher
personnel costs, as part of AIG's continued investment in its employees.   

Consumer Insurance Ratios   

  The accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, in the year ended December 31, 2012 improved in both A H and Personal lines. The improvement in A H is primarily
attributable to favorable underwriting performance of individual personal accident business in Asia Pacific, targeted underwriting actions, coupled with rate increases and risk selection of group A H
in the U.S. and the overall travel business. The improvement in Personal lines is primarily attributable to improved underwriting and risk selection in the warranty line of business, price
sophistication and rate strengthening for Japan, EMEA automobile and the U.S. private client group, and targeted business mix changes that resulted in faster growth in non-automobile
products than the automobile line of business. Included in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, for the year ended December 31, 2012, are severe losses totaling $33 million. There
were no severe losses for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

  The
acquisition ratio increased by 1.2 points primarily due to profit sharing arrangements in lines of business targeted for growth, direct marketing expenses and the reduction in VOBA benefit.
Overall direct marketing costs increased by approximately 9 percent in 2012; total direct marketing spending outside the U.S. increased by approximately 18 percent in the same period.
There was also a decrease of approximately $49 million in the benefit from the amortization of VOBA liabilities recognized at the time of the Fuji acquisition.   

  The
general operating expense ratio increased by 0.9 points as a result of incurring additional expenses to grow key lines of business across a number of geographic areas and strategic expansion in
growth economy nations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, investments in strategic initiatives, including investments in an integrated consumer lines platform and information systems
infrastructure totaled approximately $44 million, representing an increase of approximately $27 million or 0.2 points over the prior year. The remainder of the increase was primarily due
to higher personnel costs, as we continue our efforts to align employee performance across the globe with our strategic goals.   

Other Category   

  We continued to invest in a number of strategic initiatives during 2012, including the implementation of global finance and information systems, preparation for Solvency II
compliance, readiness for regulation by the FRB, legal entity restructuring, and underwriting and claims improvement initiatives. We also continued to streamline our finance, policy and claims
administration and human resources operations. The costs of these initiatives, which are not specific to either Commercial Insurance or Consumer Insurance, are reported as part of the Other category.
For the year ended December 31, 2012, such costs totaled $391 million, representing an increase of approximately $195 million over the prior year, and contributed approximately
1.1 points to the AIG Property Casualty general operating expense ratio.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
84  

Table of Contents    

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Ratios   

  The Commercial Insurance accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, increased in 2011 due to increased losses for the Specialty Workers' Compensation and Excess Casualty
business (in the Americas region) and the Primary Casualty and Professional Indemnity businesses (in the EMEA region). Severe losses were $296 million for the year ended December 31,
2011, compared to $135 million in the prior year. These increases were largely offset by rate strengthening and underwriting actions taken since 2010.   

  The
acquisition ratio increased by 0.5 point in 2011 due to a change in the mix of business from low commission casualty business to higher commission property business, due to the underwriting
actions taken since 2010, partially offset by rate strengthening.   

  The
general operating expense ratio decreased by 0.9 points in 2011 compared to 2010 due to the overall growth in the business. In addition, the expense ratio reflects the effects of continued
enhancements to regional governance, risk management capabilities and investments within growth economy nations.   

Consumer Insurance Ratios   

  The accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, in the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased, primarily due to rate strengthening and underwriting actions taken since
2010 and strong results in direct marketing and individual personal accident business.   

The
acquisition ratio decreased by 2.7 points primarily due to the effects of the full year consolidation of Fuji results. Fuji has a lower average acquisition ratio than the rest of the Consumer
Insurance business due in part to its business mix.   

  The
general operating expense ratio decreased by 0.3 points, primarily due to the growth in the business offset by investments in strategic initiatives, including a consumer lines platform and the
implementation of global finance and information systems totaling $16 million, an increase of approximately $9 million over the prior year.   

Other Category   

  We increased investments in a number of strategic initiatives during 2011, including the implementation of improved regional governance and risk management capabilities, the
implementation of global accounting and claims systems, preparation for Solvency II and certain other legal entity restructuring initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2011, such
investments totaled $196 million, representing an increase of approximately $134 million over the prior year, and contributed approximately 0.5 points to the AIG Property Casualty
general operating expense ratio.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
85  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents AIG Property Casualty accident year catastrophe losses, by major event and severe losses:   

(a)      Events
shown in the above table are catastrophic insured events having a net impact in excess of $10 million each. Severe losses are defined as non-catastrophe
individual first party losses greater than $10 million, net of related reinsurance.   

  (b)      On
October 29, 2012 Storm Sandy, one of the largest Atlantic hurricanes on record, came ashore in the U.S. When the storm made landfall, it was categorized as an extratropical
cyclone, not a hurricane. Storm Sandy is expected to be the second-costliest Atlantic hurricane in history, only surpassed by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Storm Sandy caused widespread flooding and wind
damage across the mid-Atlantic states.   

  (c)      On
March 11, 2011, a major earthquake occurred near the northeast coast of Honshu, Japan, triggering a tsunami in the Pacific Ocean. This disaster is referred to as the Tohoku
Catastrophe.   

AIG Property Casualty Investing and Other Results

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty's investing and other results:     

*         Includes
gain on divested properties of $669 million in 2010   

  We manage and account for our invested assets on a legal entity basis in conformity with regulatory requirements. Within a legal entity, invested assets are
available to pay claims and expenses of both Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments as well as the Other category. Invested assets are not segregated or otherwise separately
identified for the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments.   

  Investment
income is allocated to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments based on an internal investment income allocation model. The model estimates investable funds based
primarily on loss reserves, unearned premium and a capital allocation for each segment. The investment income allocation is calculated based on the estimated investable funds and risk-free
yields (plus an illiquidity premium) consistent with the approximate duration of the liabilities. The actual yields in excess of the allocated amounts and the investment   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
86  

Table of Contents   

  income
from the assets not attributable to the Commercial Insurance and the Consumer Insurance operating segments are assigned to the Other category.   

Net
realized capital gains (losses), bargain purchase gains and other income (expense)   net are not allocated to Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance, but are reported as
part of the Other category.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Net Investment Income   

  Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and changes in
overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased $472 million or 11 percent in 2012, compared to 2011, primarily due to the impact of the overall diversification in the asset
portfolio during the year. We adopted yield-enhancement initiatives in 2011, and continued through 2012, which increased the average yield of our investment portfolio by 0.3 points to
4.0 percent during 2012.   

  While
corporate debt securities continued to be the largest asset category, we continued to reduce our concentration in lower yielding tax exempt municipal bond holdings and focus on risk weighted
opportunistic investments in higher yielding assets such as structured securities. This asset diversification has achieved an increase in average yields while the overall credit ratings of our fixed
maturity investments were largely unchanged. We expect to continue to refine our investment strategy in 2013 to meet our liquidity, duration and credit quality objectives as well as current
risk-return and tax objectives.   

  Our
invested asset portfolio grew by approximately $4.3 billion, or 3 percent during the year with declining interest rates and narrowing spreads in both investment grade and higher
yield asset classes contributing to higher unrealized appreciation in our portfolio.   

  Net
investment income from other investment categories increased by $160 million in 2012 compared to 2011, of which $82 million was attributed to the strong performance of equity
partnership investments, following a 16 percent increase in the S P 500 Index during 2012. Other investment income also increased by $72 million due to the strategic group
benefits partnership with AIG Life and Retirement, all of which is reported in Consumer Insurance.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)   

  Net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2012 were driven by other-than-temporary impairments and impairment charges on
life settlement contracts offset by gains recognized on the sale of fixed maturity and equity securities. We recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges of
$377 million primarily attributable to a decrease in recoverable values for structured securities, partnership investments and equity securities in an unrealized loss position for more than
12 months. During 2012, we recognized impairment charges on life settlement contracts in the amount of $309 million as a result of decreases in their estimated fair value as well as a
change in management's intent about continuing to hold certain life settlement contracts. In addition, we recognized a loss of $43 million from derivatives used to economically hedge foreign
currency positions. These decreases were offset by gains recognized on the sale of fixed maturity and equity securities in the amount of $675 million and a gain on the sale of a property in the
amount of $55 million.   

  See
Consolidated Results for further discussion on net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses).   

Legal Settlements   

  In December of 2012, we recorded litigation settlement income from settlements with three financial institutions who participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS
as to which AIG and its subsidiaries suffered losses either directly on their own account or in connection with their participation in AIG's securities lending program.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

Net Investment Income   

  Net investment income decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010. We experienced declines in private equity and hedge fund income, as well as increases in investment
expenses, which were largely offset by increases in interest income. The decrease in private equity and hedge fund income reflects the decline in the overall equity markets during the second half of
2011. The increase in investment expenses in 2011 resulted mainly from increases in both   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
87  

Table of Contents   

  internal
and external investment management fees. The interest income increase reflects the redeployment of cash and short term instruments into longer term, higher yield securities. In addition, 2011
reflects a full year of interest income related to Fuji.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)   

  Net realized capital gains were recorded in 2011, compared to losses in 2010. We recorded gains on the sales of fixed maturity securities; a decrease in
other-than-temporary impairment charges; gains from improvements in foreign currency exchange rates; and gains from derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting, resulting primarily from declining long term interest rates. These derivative instruments economically hedge products that provide benefits over an extended period of time. Net realized
capital gains on sales of fixed maturity securities increased due to our strategy to better align investment allocations with current overall performance and income tax planning objectives.   

  These
gains were partially offset by impairments within other invested assets, primarily life settlement contracts. For the years 2011 and 2010, we recorded impairment charges of $351 million
and $78 million, respectively, related to life settlement contracts. These charges included approximately $38 million and $4 million of impairments, respectively, associated with
life insurance policies issued by AIG Life and Retirement that are eliminated in consolidation.   

  During
2011, we experienced an increase in the number of life settlement contracts identified as potentially impaired, compared to previous analyses. This increase reflected a new process adopted by
us, in which updated medical information on individual insured lives is requested on a routine basis. In some cases, this updated information indicates that an individual's health has improved,
resulting in an impairment loss due to revised estimates of net cash flows from the related contract. In addition, our domestic operations refined our fair values based upon the availability of recent
medical information.   

  See
Consolidated Results for further discussion on net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses).   

Bargain Purchase Gain   

  On March 31, 2010, we purchased additional voting shares in Fuji which resulted in the effective control and consolidation of Fuji. This acquisition resulted in a
bargain purchase gain of $0.3 billion, which was included in the Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) in Other Income. The bargain purchase gain was primarily attributable to the depressed
market value of Fuji's common stock, which we believed was the result of macro-economic, capital market and regulatory factors in Japan coupled with Fuji's financial condition and results of
operations.   

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense

The following discussion of the consolidated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses (loss reserves) presents loss reserves for AIG Property Casualty as
well as the loss reserves pertaining to the Mortgage Guaranty reporting unit, which is reported in Other.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
88  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the components of AIG's gross loss reserves by major lines of business on a U.S. statutory basis*:   

*         Presented
by lines of business pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.   

  AIG's gross loss reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including estimates for IBNR and loss expenses, less applicable discount
for future investment income. We regularly review and update the methods and assumptions used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting reserves. Any adjustments resulting
from this review are reflected in pre-tax income. Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that loss trends
vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase prior years' estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as unfavorable or adverse
development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease prior years' estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development.   

  The
net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance, less applicable discount for future investment income.   

   The following table classifies the components of net loss reserves by business unit:     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
89  

Table of Contents   

Discounting of Reserves     

   The following table presents the components of AIG Property Casualty's loss reserve discount included
above:   

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discounting of loss reserves.   

   The following table presents the net reserve discount benefit (charge):     

The benefit from the change in discount in the year ended December 31, 2012 includes a $100 million increase in the reserve discount due to the
commutation of an internal reinsurance treaty, under which a U.S. subsidiary previously ceded workers' compensation claims to a non-U.S. subsidiary. AIG discounts its loss reserves related
to workers' compensation business written by its U.S. domiciled subsidiaries as permitted by the domiciliary statutory regulatory authorities. As a result of the commutation, the reserves for these
claims are now recorded in a U.S. insurance subsidiary and accordingly are being discounted commencing in the three-month period ended June 30, 2012. The commutation was implemented as part of
AIG Property Casualty's efforts to simplify its internal reinsurance arrangements.   

Annual Reserving Conclusion     

  AIG net loss reserves represent our best estimate of our liability for net losses and loss expenses as of December 31, 2012. While AIG
regularly reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that AIG's ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIG's loss reserves as of
December 31, 2012. In our opinion, such adverse development and resulting increase in reserves are not likely to have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition,
although such events could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
90  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the rollforward of net loss reserves:     

(a)     Represents
the acquisition of Fuji on March 31, 2010.   

  (b)     Includes
amounts related to dispositions through the date of disposition.   

  (c)     See
tables below for details of prior year development by business unit, accident year and major class of business.   

   The following tables summarize development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years, net of
reinsurance:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
91  

Table of Contents   

  For certain categories of claims (e.g., construction defect claims and environmental claims), losses may sometimes be reclassified to an earlier or later
accident year as more information about the date of occurrence becomes available to AIG. These reclassifications are shown as development in the respective years in the table above.   

Net Loss Development by Class of Business     

  In determining the loss development from prior accident years, we analyze and evaluate the change in estimated ultimate loss for each accident year
by class of business. For example, if loss emergence for a class of business is different than expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the indicated effect such emergence would have
on the reserves of that class of business. In some cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate loss estimate for the accident years in question,
and no adjustment would be made to the reserves for the class of business for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either
favorable or unfavorable. As appropriate, we make adjustments for the difference between the actual and expected loss emergence. As part of our reserving process, we also consider notices of claims
received with respect to emerging and/or evolving issues, such as those related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market.   

The
following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the development in 2012, 2011 and 2010 of those classes of business that experienced significant prior accident year development during the
three-year period. See Critical Accounting Estimates for a description of our loss reserving process.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
92  

Table of Contents   

Excess Casualty   U.S.     

  The excess casualty segment presents unique challenges for estimating the unpaid claims. Insureds are generally required to provide notice of claims
that exceed a threshold, either expressed as a proportion of the attachment (e.g., 50 percent of the attachment) or as particular types of claims (e.g., death, quadriplegia). This
threshold is generally established well below our attachment point, in order to provide us with a precautionary notice of claims that could potentially pierce our layer of coverage. This means that
the majority of claims close without payment because the claims never pierce our layer, while the claims that close with payment can be large and highly variable. Thus, estimates of unpaid claims
carry significant uncertainty.   

  During
2012, the excess casualty class of business experienced $262 million of adverse development based on worse than expected emergence in 2012, primarily from adverse outcomes relating to
certain large claims from older accident years, from the legacy public entity excess casualty class of business and from a refined analysis applied to claims in excess of $10 million. This
refined analysis considers the impact of changing attachment points (primarily impacting frequency of excess claims) and limit structures (primarily impacting severity of excess claims) throughout the
loss development period.   

  During
2011 the excess casualty business segment experienced better than expected loss emergence, based on the shorter-termed loss development pattern from the year-end 2010 reserve
analysis. However, accident year 2010 experienced some large catastrophic losses causing its results to be worse than expected.   

  Loss
development was affected by an increase in loss costs in 2010, primarily due to medical inflation, which increased the economic loss component of tort claims; advances in medical care, which
extended the life span of severely injured claimants; and larger jury verdicts, which increased the value of severe tort claims.   

Director and Officer (D O) and Related Management Liability   U.S.     

  We experienced favorable development in 2012 and 2011. The favorable development over the two-year period related primarily to accident
years 2005-2007, 2010, and, to a lesser extent, accident years 2001 and 2002. Development in 2010 was slightly negative.   

  For
the year-end 2012 loss reserve review, our actuaries took into account the favorable emergence during 2012 for several accident years, especially accident year 2010, the claims
department's reviews of open claims and reduced the ultimate losses for prior years accordingly. The 2012 actuarial review also adopted a refined segmentation for this class of business with the
selection of differentiated frequency and severity trends. The overall loss cost trend adopted for this class of business in 2012 from the application of the refined segmentation was slightly lower
than that adopted for the 2011 review reflecting the continued favorable emergence from this class of business.   

  For
the year-end 2011 loss reserve reviews, our actuaries took into account the favorable development from prior accident years, as well as the continuing favorable development observed in
the ground-up claims projections by our claims staff over the past five years.   

Excess Workers' Compensation   U.S.     

  This class of business has an extremely long tail and is one of the most challenging classes of business to reserve for, particularly when the excess
coverage is provided above a self-insured retention layer. The class is highly sensitive to small changes in assumptions   in the rate of medical inflation or the
longevity of injured workers, for example   which can have a significant effect on the ultimate reserve estimate.   

During
the 2012 loss reserve review, we augmented traditional reserve methodologies with an analysis of underlying claims cost drivers to inform our judgment of the ultimate loss costs for open
reported claims from accident years 2003 and prior (representing approximately 95 percent of all open reported claims) and used the refined analysis to inform our judgment of the ultimate loss
cost for claims that have not yet been reported using a frequency/severity approach for these accident years.   

  The
approach was deemed to be most suitable for injured workers whose medical conditions had largely stabilized (i.e., at least 9 to 10 years have elapsed since the date of injury). The
reserves for accident years 2004 and subsequent (13 percent of total case and IBNR reserves for this class) were determined using traditional methods. See Critical Accounting Estimates for
additional information.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
93  

Table of Contents    

  The refined analysis confirmed that significant uncertainty remains for this class of business, especially from unreported claims and from the propensity for
future medical deterioration. Based on the more refined analysis we did not recognize any material development for accident years 2011 and prior.   

  AIG
experienced significant adverse development of $825 million for this class in 2010. With the passage of the Affordable Care Act in March 2010, we concluded that there is increased
vulnerability to the risk of further cost-shifting to the excess workers' compensation class of business. Settlement efforts can also be affected by changes to evaluation protocols
implemented by the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services in 2009. These changes were expected to result in future prescription drug costs being borne by workers' compensation insurers to a
significantly greater degree than in the past, and were assessed as being likely to lead to further deteriorating trends for the excess workers' compensation class of business.   

  As
part of our 2010 comprehensive loss reserve analysis, we compared and contrasted the traditional techniques that have been used for this class with an alternative approach that focuses more
explicitly on projecting the effect of future calendar year trends, while placing less weight on prior-period loss development ratios due to the increased evidence of changes to the claims
environment. These various actuarial analyses indicated a substantial increase in loss estimates from the prior-year level, primarily for accident years 2002 and prior.   

Healthcare   U.S.     

  During 2012, this class recognized $68 million of adverse prior year development due to several large claims that involved unusual coverage
issues for this class. With the exception of these claims, this class experienced claim activity in line with expectations.   

  Healthcare
business written by AIG Property Casualty's Americas region produced moderate favorable development in 2011 and 2010. Healthcare loss reserves have benefited from favorable market
conditions and an improved legal environment in accident years 2002 and subsequent, following a period of adverse loss trends and market conditions that began in the mid 1990s.   

Environmental     

  We maintain an active environmental insurance business related to pollution legal liability and general liability for environmental consultants and
engineers, as well as runoff business for certain environmental coverage (including Cost Cap Containment) which provides cost overrun protection. We evaluate and report reserves associated with this
business separately from the 1986 and prior asbestos and environmental reserves associated with standard General Liability and Umbrella policies discussed in "Asbestos and Environmental Reserves".   

  Because
of an increase in the frequency and severity of claims observed beginning in 2011, the 2012 loss reserve review consisted of an intensive review of reported claims by a
multi-disciplinary team including external experts in environmental law and engineering science, toxicologists and other experts, our actuaries, claims managers and underwriters to reassess our
indicated loss reserve need. The review improved our understanding of factors that drive claim costs such as policy term, limit, pollution conditions covered, location of incident and applicable laws
and remediation standards. The analysis used these factors to segment and analyze the claim data to determine ultimate costs, in some cases, on a claim by claim basis. As a result of this analysis,
$326 million of prior year adverse development was recognized during 2012, including $166 million reported in the AIG Property Casualty Other reporting unit related to lines that
are now in runoff. The majority (81 percent) of the adverse development related to accident years 2003 and prior, before significant underwriting changes were adopted.   

  Historically,
we had used traditional actuarial methods to assess the reserves for the environmental products. The comprehensive claims review provided a more refined approach for the development of
actuarial estimates for toxic tort claims (which were found to have a distinctly lengthier loss development pattern than other general liability claims in the environmental portfolio) as well as a
more appropriate methodology for incorporating case reserving based estimates of ultimate loss costs for complex claims involving environmental remediation and/or from policies with high policy limits
(greater than $5 million per policy). Notwithstanding the refined methodology and approach applied in 2012, considerable uncertainty remains over the ultimate loss cost for this class of
business, especially for business written in accident years 2003 and prior.   

  We
strengthened our post 1986 Environmental reserves in 2011 by $413 million, partly due to large reserve increases on individual claims. Of this amount, $382 million was included in the
AIG Property Casualty Other   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
94  

Table of Contents   

  reporting
unit. Approximately 80 percent of the 2011 development was associated with accident years 2003 and prior.   

  In
addition to reserving actions, we have made significant changes to the ongoing environmental business included in Commercial with the goal of ensuring that the current policies are being written to
earn an appropriate risk adjusted profit. Underwriting guidelines have been revised to no longer cover known or expected clean up costs, which were a significant driver of historical claims, and a
"new emerging contaminants" team has been formed within the dedicated environmental engineering staff to track any new cleanup standards that may be set by federal or state regulators. The percentage
of long term policies (ten years or more) has decreased from a historical average of 6 percent to 1.5 percent by policy count. In addition, minimum retentions have been increased, and
engineering reviews are required for specific business segments (such as oil and gas, and landfills) that have traditionally generated higher losses.   

Primary Workers' Compensation and General Liability in Commercial Risk, Specialty Workers' Compensation and Energy Business
units     

  The Commercial Risk division writes casualty insurance accounts for businesses with revenues of less than $700 million. The majority of the
business is workers' compensation. The Energy division writes casualty insurance accounts (including workers' compensation) in the mining, oil and gas and power generation sectors. The Commercial
Specialty Workers' Compensation division writes small monoline guaranteed cost risks. Our Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation business unit grew significantly in the early to mid 2000s but has
reduced premium writings by nearly 70 percent since 2007.   

  During 2012,
we significantly intensified our claims management efforts for those primary workers' compensation claims which are managed by AIG. These efforts include consulting with various
specialists, including clinical and public health professionals and other advisors. We also continued to refine our actuarial methodologies for estimating ultimate loss costs incorporating a more
refined segmentation by state (California and New York were analyzed separately) and a more refined approach for business subject to deductibles as well as business subject to premium adjustments
(loss-sensitive business). Based on these enhanced reviews we increased reserves by $46 million. We also reviewed the General Liability (GL) loss experience of the primary casualty
classes of business using a more refined segmentation for business subject to a deductible as well as loss-sensitive business. Our review focused on applying actuarial loss development
analyses to those GL claims for which these techniques are appropriate. As a result of this analysis, we determined that prior year reserves needed to be increased by $235 million for the
primary GL class of business in 2012 to reflect the worse than expected emergence of paid loss severities for both bodily injury and property damage claims from the more recent accident years
(2008 and subsequent).   

  The
Commercial Risk, Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation and Energy divisions contributed $265 million, $145 million and $115 million, respectively, of adverse development
in calendar year 2011. The vast majority of this adverse development emanates from primary workers' compensation exposure, which was largely from accident year 2010. In 2011, losses for accident year
2010 continued to emerge at higher levels than anticipated at prior year end. A key driver was the effect of high unemployment on the frequency of higher severity lost time claims. The poor economic
environment precluded some employers from offering "light duty" return-to-work alternatives that might otherwise have mitigated lost time claims. At the same time, the
increased use of pain management strategies has led to increased medical claims. The increase in lost time frequency and the adverse effects of medical cost trends resulted in higher loss ratios than
anticipated at prior year end. For each of the three classes, our conclusion that the worsening experience necessitated a strengthening of the reserves was confirmed by an independent third-party
actuarial review during 2011.   

  We
recorded a total of $518 million of adverse loss development for Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation in 2010. The need to strengthen the reserves was confirmed by an independent
third-party actuarial review during the fourth quarter of 2010. Approximately 75 percent of the year-end 2010 reserve strengthening for this business pertained to accident years
2007 through 2009. For similar reasons, the Commercial Risk division strengthened workers' compensation reserves in 2010.   

   For more information on our Loss Reserving Process, see Critical Accounting Estimates.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
95  

Table of Contents   

Asbestos and Environmental Reserves

Third-Party Actuarial Review of Asbestos Loss Reserve Estimates     

  As part of our more in-depth comprehensive loss-reserve review in the fourth quarter of 2010, we conducted a series of
top-down and ground-up reserve analyses to determine the appropriate loss reserve estimate for our asbestos exposures. To ensure the most comprehensive analysis possible, we
engaged an independent third-party actuarial firm to assist in assessing these exposures. The ground-up study conducted by this firm used a proprietary model to calculate the loss exposure
on an insured-by-insured basis. We believe that the accuracy of the reserve estimate is greatly enhanced through the combination of the actuarial firm's industry modeling
techniques and industry knowledge and our own specific account-level experience.   

  Annually,
we consider a number of factors and recent experience in addition to the results of the top-down and ground-up analyses performed for asbestos and environmental
reserves. We considered the significant uncertainty that remains as to our ultimate liability for asbestos and environmental claims, which is due to several
factors:  

the long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation, leading to the potential for involvement of
multiple policy periods for individual claims;   
           claims filed under the non-aggregate premises or operations section of general liability policies;    
           the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the effect of prepackaged bankruptcies;    
           diverging legal interpretations; and  
           the difficulty in estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various parties with respect to environmental
claims.    

  As
a result of the top-down and ground-up reserve analyses and the factors considered, asbestos reserves were strengthened by $3.3 billion gross and $1.5 billion
net in 2010.   

  In 2011,
we completed a top-down report year projection as well as a market share projection of our indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These projections consisted
of a series of tests performed separately for asbestos and for environmental exposures.   

  For
asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be reported through 2027. This projection was based on the actual losses reported through 2011 and the expected future loss
emergence for these claims. Three scenarios were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more optimistic to more conservative.   

  For
environmental claims, a comparable series of frequency/severity tests were produced. We updated the top-down report year projections in 2012. In this updated projection,
environmental claims from future report years (i.e., IBNR) are projected out ten years, through the year 2022.   

  As
a result of the studies, we determined that no additional strengthening was required for asbestos and environmental in 2011.   

After
we carefully considered the recent experience compared to the results of the 2010 ground-up analysis, as well as all of the above factors, no adjustment to gross and net asbestos
reserves was recognized in 2012. Additionally in 2012, a moderate amount of incurred loss pertaining to the asbestos loss reserve discount is reflected in the table below and is related
to the reserves not subject to the NICO reinsurance agreement.   

  Upon
completion of the environmental top-down analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2012, we concluded that the $75 million net reserve strengthening recognized in the
first half of 2012 was adequate.   

  In
addition to the U.S. asbestos and environmental reserve amounts shown in the tables below, AIG Property Casualty also has asbestos reserves relating to foreign risks written by non-U.S.
entities of $140 million gross and $116 million net as of December 31, 2012. The asbestos reserves relating to non-U.S. risks written by non-U.S. entities
were $233 million gross and $165 million net as of December 31, 2011.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
96  

Table of Contents   

   The following table provides a summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims:   

(a)     Re-estimation
of amounts recoverable under retroactive reinsurance contracts includes effect of changes in reserve estimates and changes in discount. Additionally, the
2011 Net amount includes the effect on net loss reserves of the initial cession to NICO.   

  (b)     These
amounts exclude benefit from retroactive reinsurance.   

Transfer of Domestic Asbestos Liabilities     

  On June 17, 2011, we completed a transaction under which the bulk of AIG Property Casualty's net domestic asbestos liabilities were
transferred to NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. This was part of our ongoing strategy to reduce our overall loss reserve development risk. This transaction covers potentially
volatile U.S.-related asbestos exposures. It does not, however, cover asbestos accounts that we believe have already been reserved to their limit of liability or certain other ancillary asbestos
exposure assumed by AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
97  

Table of Contents   

  Upon
the closing of this transaction, but effective as of January 1, 2011, we ceded the bulk of AIG Property Casualty's net domestic asbestos liabilities to NICO under a retroactive reinsurance
agreement with an aggregate limit of $3.5 billion. Within this aggregate limit, NICO assumed collection risk for existing third-party reinsurance recoverable associated with these liabilities.
AIG Property Casualty paid NICO approximately $1.67 billion as consideration for this cession and NICO assumed approximately $1.82 billion of net U.S. asbestos liabilities. As a result
of this transaction, AIG Property Casualty recorded a deferred gain of $150 million in the second quarter of 2011, which is being amortized into income over the settlement period of the
underlying claims.   

   The following table presents the estimate of the gross and net IBNR included in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, relating to asbestos and
environmental claims:   

*         Net
IBNR includes the reduction due to the NICO reinsurance transaction of $1,310 million and $1,414 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A
significant part of the reduction in IBNR in 2012 is due to the reclassification of estimated liabilities on a retained account from IBNR to case reserves.   

The following table presents a summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity:   

(a)     The
number of environmental claims dismissed or otherwise resolved, increased substantially during 2012 as a result of AIG Property Casualty's determination that certain methyl
tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE) claims presented no further potential for exposure since these underlying claims were resolved through dismissal, settlement, or trial for all of the accounts involved. All
of these accounts were fully reserved at the account level and included adequate reserves for those underlying individual claims that contributed to the actual losses. These individual claim closings,
therefore, had no impact on AIG Property Casualty's environmental reserves.   

  (b)     Represents
an administrative change to the method of determining the number of open claims, which had no effect on carried reserves.   

Survival Ratios   Asbestos and Environmental     

  The following table presents AIG's survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The survival
ratio is derived by dividing the current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival ratio is a simplistic measure
estimating the number of years it would take before the current ending loss reserves for these claims would be paid off using recent year average payments.   

  Many
factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and payments and
the resulting survival ratio. Additionally, we primarily base our determination of these reserves based on ground-up and top-down analyses, and not on survival ratios.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
98  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined, which were based upon a three-year average
payment:   

*         Survival
ratios are calculated consistent with the basis on historical reserve excluding the effects of the NICO reinsurance transaction.   

AIG Life and Retirement     

AIG Life and Retirement Highlights     

  The results of AIG Life and Retirement for 2012 and 2011 reflected the following:  

Disciplined spread management, primarily through the effect of reinvestment during 2011 of significant amounts of cash and
short term investments and crediting rate changes, resulted in improvements in base net investment spreads for 2012. Private equity and hedge fund investment income increased $112 million in
2012 compared to 2011.   
           Investment income from the ML II investment prior to its liquidation and distribution in March 2012 increased
$200 million in 2012 compared to 2011.   
           More favorable separate account performance driven in large part by equity markets had a positive effect on policyholder
benefits and DAC amortization expenses for 2012.   
           Reserve increases related to enhanced death claim practices in connection with the resolution of multi-state examinations
were lower in 2012 compared to 2011.  
           Higher net realized capital gains from the sale of investments were reflected in 2012 in conjunction with a program to
utilize capital loss tax carryforwards. The sales of securities in unrealized gain positions that support certain payout annuity products, and subsequent reinvestment of the proceeds at generally
lower yields, triggered loss recognition accruals in 2012.    

AIG Life and Retirement Operations     

  Commencing in the third quarter of 2012, the SunAmerica segment was renamed AIG Life and Retirement, although certain existing brands will continue to be used
in the marketplace.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement presents its business in two operating segments:  

Life Insurance   , which focuses on mortality and morbidity-based protection
products, and   
            Retirement Services   , which focuses on investment, retirement savings and
income solution products.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
99  

Table of Contents   

AIG Life and Retirement Results

The following table presents AIG Life and Retirement results:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
100  

Table of Contents    

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

AIG Life and Retirement Operating Income

Operating income increased in 2012 principally due to our efforts to actively manage spread income. Results benefitted from higher net investment income, lower interest
credited, lower reserve charges for death claims and the impact of favorable separate account performance on policyholder benefit expenses and DAC amortization. These items were partially offset by
significant proceeds from legal settlements in 2011, higher mortality costs and a charge to increase GIC reserves.   

  Premiums
decreased slightly in 2012 due to lower group benefit premiums partially offset by higher term insurance premiums.   

  Policy
fees increased in 2012 as a result of growth in variable annuity assets under management from higher net flows and separate account performance, driven in large part by higher equity markets.   

  Net
investment income increased in 2012 reflecting higher base yields of 9 basis points due to the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short-term investments during 2011,
opportunistic investments in structured securities, fair value gains on MLII and other structured securities, a fair value gain of approximately $57 million on the investment in PICC Group,
lower impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and higher returns on alternative investments. The increase in net investment income combined with lower interest credited
resulted in improved net investment spreads in 2012 compared to 2011.   

  Other
income decreased due to legal settlement proceeds of $226 million in 2011 to resolve a litigation matter.   

  Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred decreased as lower reserve charges for death claims not submitted to AIG in the normal course of business and the impact of favorable separate account
performance more than offset higher mortality costs for individual life insurance.   

Interest
credited decreased in 2012 due to active crediting rate management actions that included lowering renewal credited rates, maintaining discipline on new business pricing including
re-filing products to lower minimum rate guarantees.   

  Amortization
of deferred acquisition costs decreased in 2012 primarily as a result of updated assumptions related to fixed annuity surrender rates and the impact of favorable separate account
performance.   

  Other
acquisition and insurance expenses were essentially flat with 2011.   

Life Insurance Operating Income     

  Life Insurance operating income increased in 2012 due to higher net investment income and lower reserves for death claims, principally related to the
effect of multi-state unclaimed property examinations, that have not been submitted to AIG in the normal course of business. These items were partially offset by higher mortality costs, DAC
amortization and loss recognition reserves related to a legacy block of long-term care insurance.   

  Premiums
decreased slightly in 2012 due to lower group benefit premiums partially offset by higher term insurance premiums.   

Policy
fees were essentially flat with 2011.   

  Net
investment income increased in 2012, reflecting the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short-term investments during 2011, opportunistic investments in structured
securities, fair value gains on MLII in 2012 of $76 million, a fair value gain of $28 million on the investment in PICC made in 2012, lower impairment charges on investments in leased
commercial aircraft and higher returns on alternative investments.   

  Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred increased in 2012 reflecting higher mortality costs and loss recognition reserves, partially offset by lower charges to increase reserves for death claims as
described below:  

Mortality costs related to life insurance increased in 2012, although overall mortality results remain within pricing
expectations.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
101  

Table of Contents   

Certain long-duration products, including traditional life insurance, accident and health products, such as
long-term care insurance and payout annuities, may require increases in reserves if changes in estimates of future investment returns result in projected future losses. Long term care
products may also require additional reserves if future expected premium increases are not sufficient to cover future benefit cost increases not provided for in the current reserves. For these long
duration traditional products, the assumptions used to calculate benefit liabilities and DAC are "locked in" at policy issuance. These assumptions are based on our estimates of mortality, morbidity,
persistency, maintenance expenses, investment returns and for long-term care, future premium increases. If observed changes in actual experience or estimates result in projected future
losses under loss recognition testing, DAC is adjusted and additional policyholder benefit liabilities may be recorded through a charge to policyholder benefit expense. In the fourth quarter of 2012,
loss recognition reserves of $61 million were recorded for a legacy block of long-term care insurance issued prior to 2002.   
           During 2012 AIG Life and Retirement resolved multi-state examinations relating to the handling of unclaimed property and
the use of the Social Security Death Master File (SSDMF) to identify death claims that have not been submitted to us in the normal course of business. The final settlement of these examinations was
announced on October 22, 2012. AIG Life and Retirement is now taking enhanced measures to, among other things, routinely match policyholder records with the SSDMF to determine if its insured
parties, annuitants, or retained account holders have died and locate beneficiaries when a claim is payable. Charges related to the resolution of the multi-state examinations and use of the SSDMF were
approximately $57 million in 2012 and $202 million in 2011.    

  Amortization
of deferred acquisition costs increased in 2012 as a result of updated assumptions for universal life products and certain blocks of fixed annuities included in the Life Insurance
operating segment. The updated assumptions increased amortization by $78 million and primarily reflected the impact of spread compression in the current low interest rate environment.   

  Other
acquisition and insurance expenses decreased in 2012 primarily due to the sharing of group benefit costs related to our strategic partnership with AIG Property Casualty.   

Retirement Services Operating Income     

  Retirement Services operating income increased in 2012 due to improved net investment spreads (higher net investment income and lower interest
credited), the impact of favorable separate account performance on DAC amortization and policyholder benefit expenses and lower DAC amortization due to updated assumptions for fixed annuity
surrenders. These items were partially offset by significant proceeds from legal settlements in 2011 and an increase in GIC reserves in 2012.   

  Policy
fees increased in 2012 as a result of growth in variable annuity assets under management due to higher net flows and separate account performance driven in large part by higher equity markets.   

  Net
investment income increased in 2012, reflecting higher base yields due to the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short-term investments during 2011, opportunistic
investments in structured securities, fair value gains on MLII in 2012 of $170 million, a fair value gain of $28 million on the investment in PICC made in 2012, lower impairment charges
on investments in leased commercial aircraft and higher returns on alternative investments.   

  Other
income decreased due to the previously discussed legal settlement proceeds of $226 million in 2011 to resolve a litigation matter as discussed above.   

  Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred decreased in 2012 due to the impact of higher separate account returns for certain guaranteed benefit features of variable annuities.   

  Interest
credited to policyholder account balances decreased in 2012 as a result of ongoing actions to actively manage interest crediting rates on new and renewal business including lower renewal
credited rates, discipline on new business pricing and re-filing products to reduce minimum rate guarantees. As a result of a comprehensive review of reserves for the GIC portfolio, AIG
Life and Retirement recorded an increase to such reserves through interest credited of $110 million for 2012, which partially offset the impact of crediting rate actions.   

  Amortization
of deferred acquisition costs was lower in 2012 as a result of the favorable impact of updated assumptions for lower fixed annuity surrenders and the impact of higher separate account
returns described above. For investment-type annuity products, policy acquisition and issuance costs are deferred and amortized, with interest, based on the estimated gross profits
expected to be realized over the lives of the contracts. Estimated gross profits   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
102  

Table of Contents   

  include
investment spreads, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses and mortality gains and losses. Emerging actual gross profits are used to true up the
amortization of DAC, VOBA and SIA each quarter. In addition, future assumptions are reviewed to determine whether they should be modified. If so, the DAC, VOBA and SIA assets may be recalculated and
adjusted to reflect the updated assumptions. AIG Life and Retirement completed its comprehensive annual review of DAC assumptions in the fourth quarter of 2012 and adjusted the assumption for future
fixed annuity surrender rates to be more consistent with recent experience that is expected to continue as long as interest rates remain relatively low.   

  Other
acquisition and insurance expenses increased in 2012 due to higher marketing and distribution expenses associated with growth initiatives for variable annuities and group retirement products.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

AIG Life and Retirement Operating Income

Operating income decreased in 2011 due to lower net investment income, higher DAC amortization and higher policyholder benefit expense in its variable annuity business due
to separate account performance, and an increase in death claim reserves.   

  Policy
fees were essentially flat from 2010.   

  Net
investment income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 reflecting lower base yields of 12 basis points as investment purchases in late 2010 and 2011 were made at yields lower than the weighted
average yields of the existing base portfolio. Net investment income also decreased due to a $471 million decrease in fair value gains on ML II, $196 million lower call and tender
income, $163 million of impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and a $121 million decrease in private equity and hedge funds income. The lower yields were
partially offset by an increase in income from the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short term investments during 2011.   

  Other
income increased due to the previously discussed legal settlement proceeds of $226 million in 2011.   

  Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred increased as a result of reserve charges for death claims not submitted to us in the normal course of business and higher reserves for guaranteed death
benefits in our variable annuity products as a result of less favorable separate account performance in 2011 as compared to 2010.   

Other
acquisition and insurance expenses declined due to legal expense accruals and state guaranty fund assessments which were higher in 2010, as well as a reduction in the cost of letters of credit
related to reinsurance.   

Life Insurance Operating Income     

  Life Insurance operating income decreased in 2011 due to lower net investment income and an increase in death claim reserves, partially offset by
lower DAC amortization due to updating actuarial assumptions in 2010 principally related to mortality and surrender rates.   

Policyholder
fees declined primarily as a result of updating certain assumptions in 2010 related to universal life and deferred annuity business, which resulted in a $58 million increase in fee
income.   

  Net
investment income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 reflecting lower base yields as investment purchases in late 2010 and 2011 were made at yields lower than the weighted average yields of the
existing base portfolio. Net investment income also decreased due to a $149 million decrease in fair value gains on ML II, $126 million lower call and tender income and
$50 million of impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft. The lower yields were partially offset by an increase in income from the reinvestment of significant amounts of
cash and short term investments during 2011.   

  Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred increased in 2011 reflecting an increase in reserves for death claims. AIG Life and Retirement recorded an increase of approximately $202 million in
the estimated reserves for incurred but not
reported death claims in 2011 in conjunction with the use of the Social Security Death Master File (SSDMF) to identify potential claims not yet filed with its life insurance companies.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
103  

Table of Contents   

  Amortization
of deferred acquisition costs was lower in 2011 as a result of updating mortality and surrender rate assumptions on universal life and deferred annuity business in 2010, which resulted in
an $86 million increase in DAC amortization in 2010.   

Other
acquisition and insurance expenses were essentially flat from 2010.   

Retirement Services Operating Income     

  Retirement services operating income decreased in 2011 due to lower net investment income, higher DAC amortization and higher policyholder benefit
expense in its variable annuity business from equity market conditions, partially offset by higher income from legal settlements.   

  Net
investment income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 reflecting lower base yields as investment purchases in late 2010 and 2011. Net investment income also decreased due to a $322 million
decrease in fair value gains on ML II, $70 million lower call and tender income, $113 million of impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and a $127 million
decrease in private equity and hedge fund income. The lower yields were partially offset by an increase in income from the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short term investments during
2011.   

  Other
income increased due to the previously discussed legal settlement proceeds of $226 million in 2011 to resolve a litigation matter as discussed above.   

  Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred increased in 2011 due to the impact of lower separate account performance in 2011 compared to 2010.   

  Other
acquisition and insurance expenses declined due to legal expenses and state guaranty fund assessments which were higher in 2010.   

Legal Settlements     

  In December of 2012, we recorded litigation settlement income from settlements with three financial institutions who participated in the creation,
offering and sale of RMBS as to which AIG and its subsidiaries suffered losses either directly on their own account or in connection with their participation in AIG's securities lending program.   

Changes in Fair Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Designated to Hedge Living Benefit Liabilities     

  AIG Life and Retirement has a dynamic hedging program designed to manage economic risk exposure associated with changes in equity markets, interest
rates and volatilities related to embedded derivative liabilities contained in guaranteed benefit features of variable annuities. We substantially hedge our exposure to equity markets. However, due to
regulatory capital considerations, a portion of our interest rate exposure is unhedged. In 2012, we began purchasing U.S. Treasury bonds as a capital-efficient strategy to reduce our interest rate
risk exposure over time. As a result of decreases in interest rates on U.S. Treasury securities during 2012, the fair value of the U.S. Treasury securities used for hedging, net of financing costs,
increased by $37 million. This was partially offset by embedded derivative losses related to the decline in interest rates, which are reported in net realized gains (losses).   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)     

  Net realized capital gains increased by $624 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 due to higher gains from the sale of investments in
conjunction with a program to utilize capital loss tax carryforwards and lower other-than-temporary impairments. The higher gains were partially offset by $557 million
higher fair value losses on variable annuity embedded derivatives, which were primarily due to declining credit spreads and declines in long-term interest rates.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement reported net realized capital gains in 2011 compared to net realized capital losses in 2010. This was mainly due to a $981 million decline in
other-than-temporary impairments, a decline in fair value losses on derivatives primarily used to hedge the effect of interest rate and foreign exchange movements on GIC
reserves, and declines in the allowance for mortgage loans. These improvements were partially offset by a $465 million increase in fair value losses on variable annuity embedded derivatives
which were primarily driven by declines in long-term interest rates.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
104  

Table of Contents   

Change in Benefit Reserves and DAC, VOBA and SIA Related to Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)     

  In conjunction with a program to utilize capital loss tax carryforwards, we sold approximately $19.5 billion of investments in 2012. These and
other sales with subsequent reinvestment at lower yields triggered loss recognition on certain long-term payout annuity contracts in the amount of $1.2 billion, which effectively
transferred shadow loss recognition from unrealized (AOCI) to actual loss recognition (benefit expense) and, to a much lesser extent, transferred shadow DAC (AOCI) to DAC amortization expense in 2012.
Assumptions related to investment yields, mortality experience and expenses will be reviewed periodically and updated as appropriate, which may result in additional loss recognition reserves. In
addition, due to the reinvestment of the assets at lower yields, earnings related to this payout annuity block of business are expected to decline beginning in 2013.   

Premiums     

  Premiums represent amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on life-contingent payout
annuities. Premiums, deposits and other considerations is a non-GAAP measure that includes life insurance premiums and deposits on annuity contracts and mutual funds.   

The following table presents a reconciliation of premiums, deposits and other considerations to premiums:   

Sales and Deposits     

The following tables summarize AIG Life and Retirement premiums, deposits and other considerations by
product      *      :   

*         Life
insurance sales include periodic premiums from new business expected to be collected over a one-year period and 10 percent of single premiums and unscheduled
deposits from new and existing policyholders. Annuity sales represent deposits from new and existing customers.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
105  

Table of Contents   

Total premiums, deposits and other considerations decreased in 2012 as substantial decreases in individual fixed annuities were only partially offset by
significant increases in individual variable annuities and retail mutual funds.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Individual fixed annuity deposits declined due to the low interest rate environment as consumers are reluctant to purchase these products at the
relatively low crediting rates currently offered. Group retirement product deposits (which include deposits into mutual funds and fixed options within variable annuities sold in group retirement
markets) decreased modestly due to slightly lower levels of individual rollover deposits and periodic deposits in 2012, partially offset by higher mutual fund deposits. The low interest rate
environment has affected group retirement deposits, resulting in lower levels of deposits into fixed options. Individual variable annuity deposits increased due to innovative product enhancements and
expanded distribution as well as a more favorable competitive environment. Premiums from life insurance products increased in 2012, but were more than offset by declines in deferred annuities sold
through life insurance distribution channels. Retail mutual fund sales growth was principally driven by SunAmerica Asset Management Corp.'s Focused Dividend Strategy product offering which continues
to be a top long-term performer within its respective peer group.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement's total life sales decreased 1 percent during 2012 compared to 2011. Overall retail universal life sales decreased 1 percent with sales of indexed products
growing while sales of universal life products sensitive to low interest rates declined. Retail term insurance sales increased 1 percent in 2012 compared to 2011 because we continued our
disciplined focus related to new business pricing and underwriting. Institutional life sales increased 4 percent in 2012 compared to 2011 from growth in single premium private placement
universal life deposits.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

  Group retirement deposits increased primarily due to higher levels of individual rollover deposits in 2011. Individual fixed annuity deposits
increased as certain bank distributors negotiated a lower commission in exchange for a higher rate offered to policyholders which made our individual fixed annuity products more attractive. However,
fixed annuity deposits declined in the latter part of 2011 from the first six months of 2011 due to significant declines in interest rates. Variable annuity sales increased due to reinstatements of
relationships at a number of key broker-dealers, and increased wholesaler productivity. Deposits from life insurance products increased in 2011, but were more than offset by declines in deferred
annuities sold through life insurance distribution channels and a large private placement variable annuity sale in 2010. Retail mutual fund annual sales growth was driven by SunAmerica Asset
Management Corp.'s Specialty Series product offerings (Alternative Strategies and Global Trends) and the Focused Dividend Strategy Portfolio.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement grew new sales of mortality-based life insurance products during 2011 by strengthening the core retail independent distribution channel and continuing to focus on career agent
and direct-to-consumer distribution. Retail life sales increased 17 percent during 2011 as we continued to re-engage independent distribution channels.
Affiliated distribution channels grew 11 percent in 2011 as a result of an enhanced product suite appealing   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
106  

Table of Contents   

to
middle market consumers. AIG Direct, our direct-to-consumer platform, has proven highly effective for the distribution of term life and A H products. The decline in
institutional sales during 2011 reflected several large variable universal life sales during 2010.   

Retirement Services Net Flows     

   The following table presents the account value rollforward for Retirement Services:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
107  

Table of Contents    

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Overall, net flows were negative in 2012, primarily due to lower fixed annuity deposits resulting from the low interest rate environment. Net flows
improved in 2012 for individual variable annuities due to both the increase in deposits and favorable surrender experience. Net flows improved in 2012 for retail mutual funds due to increased
deposits.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

  Net flows improved in 2011 due to both the significant increase in deposits and favorable surrender experience in group retirement and individual
fixed annuities. However, individual fixed annuities net flows declined in the second half of the year due to lower deposits resulting from the low interest rate environment.   

  Surrender
rates for individual fixed annuities also decreased in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and the relative competitiveness of interest credited rates on the existing block of
fixed annuities versus interest rates on alternative investment options available in the marketplace. AIG Life and Retirement returned to a more normal level of group surrender activity that no longer
reflects the negative AIG publicity associated with the events of 2008 and 2009. Individual variable annuities net flows improved from 2010 levels due primarily to higher deposits throughout 2011 and
turned positive in the fourth quarter of 2011.   

   The following table presents reserves by surrender charge category and surrender rates:   

*         Excludes
mutual funds of $11.8 billion and $9.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Low Interest Rate Environment     

  There are a variety of factors that impact AIG Life and Retirement's businesses, and the life insurance and annuity industry in general, during a
prolonged low interest rate environment. Declining interest rates result in higher fair values of assets backing insurance and annuity liabilities and may result in improved persistency of certain
lines of business. A sustained low interest rate environment may also result in lower sales of fixed annuities and other products and lower net investment spreads as portfolio cash flows are
reinvested at lower rates (spread compression). There are a number of management actions we may take to mitigate these impacts as discussed below.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
108  

Table of Contents   

AIG Life and Retirement is proactively addressing the impact of sustained low interest rates. During 2012, a number of actions were
taken on both the asset and liability sides of our balance sheet:   

Opportunistic investments in
structured securities and re-deployment of cash in 2011 to increase yields  

Continued disciplined
approach to new business pricing  

Actively managing renewal
credited rates  

Re-priced certain life
insurance and annuity products to reflect current low rate environment  

Re-filed certain products to
continue lowering minimum rate guarantees  

As a result of these actions, we estimate that the effect of interest rates remaining at or near current levels through the end of 2013 on
pre-tax operating income would not be material, and would be modestly more significant with respect to 2014 results.  

Opportunistic Investments:    The majority of
assets backing insurance and annuity liabilities consists of intermediate- and long-term fixed maturity securities. We generally purchase assets with the intent of matching expected
maturities of the insurance liabilities. An extended low interest rate environment may result in a lengthening of liability maturities from initial estimates, primarily due to lower lapses.
Opportunistic investments in structured securities, private placement corporate debt securities and mortgage loans continue to be made to improve yields, increase net investment income and help to
offset the impact of the lower interest rate environment.   

Disciplined New Business Pricing:    New fixed
annuity sales have declined in 2012 relative to 2011, due to the relatively low crediting rates offered as a result of our disciplined approach to new business. However, even in the current interest
rate environment, we continue to pursue new sales of life and annuity products at targeted net investment spreads. New sales of fixed annuity products generally have minimum interest rate guarantees
of 1 percent. Universal life insurance interest rate guarantees are generally 2 to 3 percent on new non-indexed products and 1 percent on new indexed products, and are
designed to be sufficient to meet targeted net investment spreads. If the low interest rate environment continues, we expect our fixed annuities sales (including deposits into fixed options within
variable annuities sold in group retirement markets) to remain weak into 2013.   

Active Management of Renewal Credited
Rates:    The contractual provisions for renewal of crediting rates and guaranteed minimum crediting rates included in our
products may have the effect, in a continued low interest rate environment, of reducing our spreads and thus reducing future profitability. Although we partially mitigate this interest rate risk
through its asset-liability management process, product design elements and crediting rate strategies, a prolonged low interest rate environment may negatively affect future profitability. Our annuity
and universal life products were designed with contractual provisions that allow crediting rates to be reset at pre-established intervals subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. We
have adjusted, and will continue to adjust, crediting rates in order to maintain targeted net investment spreads on both new business and in-force business where crediting rates are above
minimum guarantees. In addition to annuity and universal life products discussed above, certain traditional long-duration products for which we do not have the ability to adjust interest
rates, such as payout annuities, are exposed to reduced earnings and potential reserve increases in a prolonged low interest rate environment.   

As
indicated in the table below, approximately 63 percent of our annuity and universal life account values are at their minimum crediting rates as of December 31, 2012, an increase from
45 percent at December 31, 2011. These   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
109  

Table of Contents   

  products
have minimum guaranteed interest rates as of December 31, 2012 ranging from 1.0 percent to 5.5 percent, with the higher rates representing guarantees on older products.   

Effective Product Management:    AIG Life and
Retirement has a dynamic product management process designed to ensure that new business product offerings appropriately reflect the current low interest rate environment. To the extent that we cannot
achieve targeted net investment spreads on new business, products are re-priced or discontinued. Additionally, current products with higher minimum rate guarantees have been
re-filed with lower rates as permitted under state insurance product regulations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
110  

Table of Contents   

Other Operations     

Other Operations Results

The following table presents AIG's Other operations results:   

*         Includes
interest expense of $2 million and $75 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively, allocated to discontinued operations in consolidation.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
111  

Table of Contents    

  In December of 2012, we recorded litigation settlement income from settlements with three financial institutions who participated in the creation, offering and
sale of RMBS as to which AIG and its subsidiaries suffered losses either directly on their own account or in connection with their participation in AIG's securities lending program.   

Mortgage Guaranty

The following table presents pre-tax income for Mortgage Guaranty:   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Mortgage Guaranty recorded operating income in 2012 compared to an operating loss in 2011 primarily due
to:  

a decrease in claims and claims adjustment expenses of $175 million. This reflects decreases in first and
second-lien businesses of $95 million and $110 million, respectively, which were partially offset by an increase in international claims and claims adjustment expenses of
$34 million. Claims and claims adjustment expenses in 2012 included favorable prior year loss development of $78 million, which consists of $45 million in second liens,
$17 million in student loans and $33 million in the international business partially offset by unfavorable development in first liens of $17 million. This favorable prior year
development was offset by current accident year losses attributable to business written in 2008 and prior;   
           the $95 million decrease in first-lien claims and claims adjustment expenses reflected
20 percent lower levels of newly reported delinquencies, an improvement in the cure rate and lower unfavorable loss development of $17 million in 2012 compared to $76 million of
unfavorable development in 2011. The unfavorable development of $17 million in 2012, included $117 million of favorable development arising from the claims requests sent to lenders
mentioned above, offset by $134 million of unfavorable development on delinquencies for which claim requests were not made;   
           the $110 million decline in second-lien business claims and claims adjustment expenses. This reflected
a decrease in claims and claims adjustment expenses paid as more business reached the respective stop loss limits; and  
           the increased claims and claims adjustment expenses in the international business. This reflected a reduction in claim
reserves in 2011 due to a settlement of certain delinquencies with a major European lender that resulted in a $43 million benefit.    

  These
items were partially offset by:  

a decline in first-lien earned premiums of $19 million reflecting higher premium refunds due to the
rescissions arising from the claims requests sent to lenders during the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing throughout 2012, as discussed in Outlook herein, in addition to the declining persistency
on the 2008 and prior policy years;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
112  

Table of Contents   

a decline in earned premiums on second-lien and international businesses, both of which were placed into
run-off during 2008, of $41 million and $24 million respectively; and  
           a $10 million increase in underwriting expenses driven primarily by an increase in underwriting, sales and product
initiatives, all of which supported the increase in new insurance written for the year.    

  New
insurance written, which represents the original principal balance of the insured mortgages, was approximately $37 billion and $19 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The
increase in new insurance written is the result of the market acceptance by lenders of UGC's risk-based pricing model and withdrawal of certain competitors from the market during 2011. See
Outlook   Other Operations   Mortgage Guaranty for further discussion.   

Risk-in-Force   

   The following table presents risk-in-force and delinquency ratio information for Mortgage Guaranty domestic
business:   

(a)     Based
on number of policies.   

  (b)     Represents
the full amount of second-lien loans insured reduced for contractual aggregate loss limits on certain pools of loans, usually 10 percent of the full
amount of loans insured in each pool. Certain second-lien pools have reinstatement provisions, which will expire as the loan balances are repaid.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

  Mortgage Guaranty recorded an operating loss in 2011 compared to operating income in 2010, primarily due
to:  

an increase in claims and claims adjustment expenses of $334 million, primarily in first-lien business.
This reflected increased overturns of denied and rescinded claims and unfavorable first-lien loss development of $76 million in 2011, compared to favorable loss development of
$385 million in 2010. These factors were partially offset by lower levels of newly reported delinquencies in the first-lien, second-lien and international products, and
a reduction in reserves due to an agreement to resolve certain delinquencies with a major European lender that resulted in a $43 million benefit;   
           declines in earned premiums from the second-lien, private student loan and international businesses, which
were placed into runoff during 2008, partially offset by an increase in earned premiums from first-lien business; and   
           the accrual of $22 million to pay for previously rescinded losses, certain legal fees and interest in connection
with an adverse judgment. Mortgage Guaranty has appealed the court's decision.    

  Partially
offsetting these declines was a reduction in underwriting expenses compared to 2010 reflecting a $94 million accrual of estimated remedy losses in 2010. Remedy losses represent the
indemnification for losses incurred by lenders arising from obligations contractually assumed by Mortgage Guaranty as a result of underwriting services provided to lenders during times of high loan
origination activity. Mortgage Guaranty believes it has adequately accrued for these losses at December 31, 2011. Pre-tax income for 2010 also includes gains of approximately
$150 million from legal settlements and reinsurance commutations.   

Global Capital Markets Operations

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  GCM reported operating income in 2012 compared to an operating loss in 2011 primarily due to improvement in unrealized market valuations related to
the super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio, a decrease in operating expenses and lower costs related to the wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios. For 2012 and 2011,   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
113  

Table of Contents   

  unrealized
market valuation gains of $617 million and $339 million, respectively, were recognized. The improvement resulted primarily from CDS transactions written on multi sector CDOs
driven by amortization and price movements within the CDS portfolio. For 2012, the remaining portfolio of AIGFP continued to be wound down and was managed consistent with AIG's risk management
objectives. The active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

  GCM reported an operating loss in 2011 compared to operating income in 2010 primarily due to a decrease in unrealized market valuation gains related
to the super senior CDS portfolio and losses in 2011 compared to gains in 2010 on the CDS contracts referencing single-name exposures written on corporate, index and asset-backed credits,
which are not included in the super senior CDS portfolio. These items were partially offset by improvement in net credit valuation adjustments on derivative assets and liabilities. For 2011 and 2010,
unrealized market valuation gains of $339 million and $598 million, respectively, were recognized on the super senior CDS portfolio. The decrease resulted primarily from CDS transactions
written on multi-sector CDOs as a result of price declines of the underlying assets. For 2011, an unrealized market valuation loss of $23 million was recognized on CDS contracts referencing
single-name exposures compared to a gain of $149 million in 2010 due to a decline in market conditions. For 2011 and 2010, net credit valuation adjustment losses of
$53 million and $200 million, respectively, were recognized. The improvement resulted primarily from the narrowing of corporate spreads.   

Direct Investment Book Results

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  The DIB's operating income increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to improvement in net credit valuation adjustments on the DIB assets and
liabilities for which the fair value option was elected and gains realized from unwinding certain transactions. For 2012 and 2011, net credit valuation adjustment gains of $789 million and
$380 million, respectively, were recognized. The improvement resulted primarily from gains
on assets due to the tightening of counterparty credit spreads, partially offset by losses on liabilities due to the tightening of AIG's credit spreads.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

  The DIB's operating income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower net gains in credit valuation adjustments on
non-derivative assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option and lower interest income due to approximately $4.9 billion in sales of investments during the fourth
quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 to increase liquidity.   

   The following table presents credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) for the DIB (excluding intercompany transactions):   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
114  

Table of Contents   

Retained Interests

Change in Fair Value of AIA Securities Prior to Their Sale   

  We sold our remaining 33 percent interest in AIA ordinary shares for proceeds of $14.5 billion and a net gain of $2.1 billion through three sale
transactions on March 7, September 11 and December 20, 2012.   

  We
recognized a $1.3 billion gain in 2011, representing a 12 percent increase in the value of AIG's then 33 percent interest in AIA, which is recorded in Other invested assets and
accounted for under the fair value option. In 2010, we recognized a $638 million loss on our interest in AIA during the approximate two-month holding period following the initial
public offering in late October 2010.   

Change in Fair Value of ML III Prior to Liquidation   

  The gains attributable to AIG's interest in ML III for 2012 were based in part on the completion of the final auction of ML III assets by the FRBNY, in the third quarter of
2012.   

  The
loss attributable to AIG's interest in ML III for 2011 was due to significant spread widening and reduced interest rates.   

  The
gain on ML III for 2010 was attributable to the shortening of its weighted average life. Additionally, fair value for 2010 was positively affected by a decrease in projected credit losses in the
underlying collateral securities.   

Change in the Fair Value of the MetLife Securities Prior to Their Sale   

  We recognized a loss in 2011, representing the decline in the securities' value, due to market conditions, from December 31, 2010 through the date of their sale in
the first quarter of 2011.   

Corporate   Other

Corporate   Other reported lower operating losses in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the effects of the
following:  

reduction in expense of $211 million in 2012 resulting from settlements of the liability for the Department of the
Treasury's underwriting fees for the sale of AIG Common Stock at amounts lower than had been estimated at the time the accrual was established, and AIG purchased a significant amount of shares for
which no payment to the underwriters was required; and  
           a decline in interest expense as a result of the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility and the exchange of outstanding
junior subordinated debentures for senior unsecured notes in 2011.    

  Real
estate and other non-core businesses declined due to lower gains on real estate dispositions and higher equity losses on real estate investments in 2012 compared to 2011.   

Corporate  
Other reported lower operating losses in 2011 compared to 2010. This was primarily due to:  

a decline in interest expense as a result of the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility;
and  
           improvement in real estate and other non-core businesses due to significantly lower levels of real estate
investment impairment charges in 2011 compared to 2010.    

Divested Businesses

Divested businesses include the operating results of divested businesses that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting through the date of their sale. The
Divested businesses results for 2010 primarily represent the historical results of AIA, which was deconsolidated in November 2010 in conjunction with its initial public offering.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
115  

Table of Contents   

Discontinued Operations     

   Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations is comprised of the following:   

Significant items affecting the comparison of results from discontinued operations included the following:  

a pre-tax loss of $6.7 billion ($4.4 billion after tax) on the announced sale of ILFC in 2012;    
           a gain on the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison in 2011, a gain on the sale of ALICO in 2010, a loss on the sale of AGF in
2010 and a loss recognized in 2010 related to the sale of Nan Shan;   
           impairments of goodwill in 2010 of $4.6 billion related to ALICO, AIG Star and AIG Edison.    
           tax effects of the above transactions, notably the impact of non-deductible goodwill impairment and the change
in investment in subsidiaries, which was principally related to changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the planned sales.    

  See
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of discontinued operations.   

Consolidated Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The following table presents AIG's consolidated comprehensive income (loss):   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
116  

Table of Contents   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Change in Unrealized Appreciation of Investments

The increase in 2012 was primarily attributable to appreciation in bonds available for sale due to lower interest rates and narrowing spreads for investment grade and
high-yield securities. The ten year U.S. Treasury rate started the year at 1.88 percent, decreased to a historic low of 1.39 percent in the middle of the year, and ended the
year at 1.76 percent. High yield and investment grade spreads were down approximately 200 basis points and 100 basis points, respectively, during the year, with the narrowing spreads being the
major contributor to unrealized appreciation in bonds available for sale, which was almost double the amount recorded in 2011. Corporate bonds and structured securities were major beneficiaries from
this continued low rate environment as prices on these assets increased significantly during the year. Non-agency securities provided the majority of the structured securities improvement
as high yield securities generally benefited from the significant narrowing of spreads during the year. The significant majority of the unrealized appreciation occurred during the first three quarters
of the year, as the fourth quarter experienced less rate and spread volatility.   

  During
2011, the insurance operations portfolio experienced appreciation in bonds available for sale due to lower rates, which more than offset widening spreads. The ten year U.S. Treasury rate
started the year at 3.30 percent, falling 188 basis points to end the year at 1.88 percent. Municipal bond rates also decreased, resulting in unrealized appreciation in both the U.S.
Government securities and municipal bond portfolio. The drop in U.S. Treasury rates more than offset the widening of spreads on Investment grade securities, resulting in improved pricing and
corresponding unrealized appreciation in the corporate bond portfolio during the year.   

  The
reclassification adjustments included in net income on unrealized appreciation of investments increased by $1.0 billion in 2012 compared to 2011 as a result of realized gains and losses
recognized on sales of securities classified as available for sale.   

  See
Investments   Investment Highlights   Securities available for sale herein for a table on the gross unrealized gains (losses) of AIG's available for sale
securities by type of security.   

Change in Deferred Acquisition Costs Adjustment and Other

The change in DAC in 2012 compared to 2011 is primarily the result of increases in the unrealized appreciation of investments supporting interest-sensitive products. DAC for
investment-oriented products is adjusted for changes in estimated gross profits that result from changes in the net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for
sale. Because fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale are carried at aggregate fair value, an adjustment is made to DAC equal to the change in DAC amortization that would have been
recorded if such securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. These adjustments, net of tax, are credited or charged directly to
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

Change in Future Policy Benefits

We periodically evaluate the assumptions used to establish deferred acquisition costs and future policy benefits. These assumptions may be adjusted based on actual
experience and judgment. Key assumptions include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns.   

  Primarily
as a result of the increase in unrealized appreciation of investments during 2012 and 2011, we recorded additional future policy benefits through Other comprehensive income. This change in
future policy benefits assumes that the securities underlying certain traditional long-duration products are sold at their stated aggregate
fair value and reinvested at current yields. This increase in future policy benefits in other comprehensive income was partially offset by loss reserve recognition in net income resulting from sales
of securities in unrealized gain positions.   

Change in Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment

The change in foreign currency translation adjustment was a net loss in 2012 due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and Japanese Yen slightly offset by
the weakening of the U.S. dollar against British pound.   

Change in Net Derivative Gains (Losses) Arising from Cash Flow Hedging Activities

The decline primarily reflects the gradual run-off of the cash flow hedge portfolio as well as the de-designations resulting from ILFC, partially
offset by a decline in the interest rate environment.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
117  

Table of Contents    

Change in Retirement Plan Liabilities Adjustment

The decrease in the amount of change in 2012 compared to the 2011 was primarily due to the overall decreases in discount rates resulting in a loss of approximately
$636 million and $677 million in 2012
and 2011, respectively. Partially offsetting the 2012 loss was a gain from investment returns of $213 million. Adding to the loss in 2011 was a loss from investment returns of
$146 million.   

  See
Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   

Change Attributable to Divestitures and Deconsolidations

The change attributable to divestitures and deconsolidations in 2011 primarily reflects the derecognition of all items in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at
the time of sale for AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan.   

Deferred Taxes on Other Comprehensive Income

In 2012, the effective tax rate on pre-tax Other Comprehensive Income was 32.2 percent. The effective tax rate differed from the statutory
35 percent rate primarily due to a decrease in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance and the effect of foreign operations.   

For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax Other Comprehensive Loss was 9.1 percent. The effective tax rate differs from the statutory
35 percent rate primarily due to the effects of the Nan Shan disposition.   

2011 and 2010 Comparison     

Change in Unrealized Appreciation of Investments

As discussed above, the 2011 increase in unrealized appreciation of investments was due to the result of appreciation in bonds available for sale due to lower rates, which
more than offset widening spreads.   

  The
$9.9 billion increase in 2010 primarily reflects an appreciation in bonds available for sale due to lower U.S. Treasury rates and slightly narrowed spreads. The structured securities
portfolio accounted for more than half of the positive change in 2010, as RMBS and CMBS continued to recover from the distressed pricing levels of the financial crisis. The increase in 2010 also
includes an appreciation in available-for-sale equity securities.   

  The
reclassification adjustments included in net income on unrealized appreciation of investments decreased by $0.5 billion in 2011 compared to 2010 as a result of realized gains and losses
recognized on sales of securities classified as available for sale.   

Change in Deferred Acquisition Costs Adjustment and Other

DAC amortization was reduced in 2011 and 2010 primarily as a result of increases in the unrealized appreciation of investments supporting interest-sensitive products. The
declines also reflect the divestiture of multiple life insurance operations, including the sales of Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison in 2011, the deconsolidation of AIA in 2010 and sale of ALICO in
2010.   

Change in Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments

The decline in foreign currency translation adjustments reflects the divestiture of multiple foreign operations, including the sales of Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison in
2011, the deconsolidation of AIA in 2010 and the sale of ALICO in 2010.   

Change in Net Derivative Gains (Losses) Arising from Cash Flow Hedging Activities

The decline in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily reflects the gradual wind-down of the cash flow hedge portfolio, partially offset by a decline in the interest
rate environment.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
118  

Table of Contents   

Change in Retirement Plan Liabilities Adjustment

The decrease in 2011 was primarily due to the announced redesign and resulting remeasurement of the AIG Retirement and AIG Excess Plans, which was converted to cash balance
plans effective April 1, 2012. AIG recognized a $590 million pre-tax reduction to Accumulated other comprehensive income in connection with the remeasurement in 2011,
primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate since December 31, 2010. This decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive income was partially offset by the effect of the increase in the
discount rate in the fourth quarter of 2011 in connection with the year end remeasurement.   

Change Attributable to Divestitures and Deconsolidations

The change attributable to divestitures and deconsolidations in both periods reflect the derecognition of all items in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at the
point of sale and deconsolidation for all entities, including domestic entities. In 2011, the most significant entities were AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan. In 2010, the most significant entities
were AIA and ALICO.   

Deferred Taxes on Other Comprehensive Income

As discussed above, for the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory 35 percent rate primarily due to the effects of the
Nan Shan disposition.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax Other Comprehensive Income was 42.5 percent, primarily due to the effects of the AIA initial public
offering, the ALICO disposition and changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the potential sale of subsidiaries, including AIG Star and AIG Edison.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
119  

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources     

Overview

Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet our payment obligations. It is defined as cash and unencumbered assets that can be monetized in
a short period of time at a reasonable cost. We manage our liquidity prudently through various risk committees, policies and procedures, and a stress testing and liquidity framework established by
ERM. See Enterprise Risk Management   Risk Governance Structure for additional information. The liquidity framework is designed to measure both the amount and composition of our
liquidity to meet financial obligations in both normal and stressed markets. See Enterprise Risk Management   Risk Appetite, Identification, and Measurement and Liquidity Risk
Management for additional information.   

  Capital
refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operation of our businesses, fund business growth, and cover financial and operational needs that arise from
adverse circumstances. Our primary source of ongoing capital generation is the profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. We and our insurance subsidiaries must comply with numerous constraints on
our minimum capital positions. These constraints drive the requirements for capital adequacy for both the consolidated company and the individual businesses and are based on internally-defined risk
tolerances, regulatory requirements, rating agency and creditor expectations and business needs. Actual capital levels are monitored on a regular basis and using ERM's stress testing methodology, we
evaluate the capital impact of potential macroeconomic, financial and insurance stresses in relation to the relevant capital constraints of both the consolidated company and our insurance
subsidiaries.   

  We
believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy future requirements and meet our obligations to policyholders, customers, creditors and debt-holders,
including reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events.   

  Nevertheless,
some circumstances may cause our cash or capital needs to exceed projected liquidity or capital resources. Additional collateral calls, deterioration in investment portfolios or reserve
strengthening affecting statutory surplus, higher surrenders of annuities and other policies, downgrades in credit ratings, or catastrophic losses may result in significant additional cash or capital
needs, loss of some sources of liquidity or capital, or both. In addition, regulatory, and other legal restrictions could limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our
subsidiaries.   

  Depending
on market conditions, regulatory and rating agency considerations and other factors, we may take various liability and capital management actions. Liability management actions may include,
but are not limited to repurchasing or redeeming outstanding debt, issuing new debt or engaging in debt exchange offers. Capital management actions may include, but are not limited to, paying
dividends to our shareholders, share purchases and acquisitions.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
120  

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources Management Highlights 2012     

Sources  
                       Sales of AIA
Shares     
We sold our remaining interest of approximately 4.0 billion AIA ordinary shares for gross proceeds of approximately $14.5 billion.       
             ML III Distributions     
We received approximately $8.5 billion in distributions from the FRBNY's dispositions of ML III assets.                     AIG Parent Funding from Subsidiaries     
Approximately $5.2 billion was paid to AIG Parent from subsidiaries in cash. In addition, AIG Parent received non-cash dividends of approximately $1.0 billion in the form of municipal bonds from AIG Property Casualty.   
                AIG Notes Offerings     
We received approximately $3.8 billion in proceeds in registered public note offerings.                     ALICO Escrow Release     
Approximately $1.0 billion held in escrow to secure indemnifications provided to MetLife under the ALICO stock purchase agreement was released to AIG (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information).  

Uses  
                      AIG Share
Purchases     
We purchased an aggregate of approximately $13 billion of AIG Common Stock at the initial public offering price in four registered public offerings of AIG Common Stock conducted by the Department of the Treasury, as the selling shareholder. See
Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these offerings.                     Pay Down of AIA SPV Preferred Interests     
We paid down in full the remaining $8.6 billion liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests and redeemed the Department of the Treasury's preferred participating return rights in the AIA SPV and the
special purpose vehicle holding the proceeds from the sale of ALICO (ALICO SPV). The payment was funded using both existing funds and approximately $1.6 billion in proceeds to us from the FRBNY's final disposition of ML II securities,
approximately $6.0 billion in proceeds from the sale of AIA ordinary shares and funds allocated to the MIP.                    Debt Reduction     
We repaid an aggregate total of $7.7 billion of debt, which includes repayments by AIG Parent of $3.2 billion.                     AIG Parent Funding to Subsidiaries     
We made $1.2 billion in net capital contributions to subsidiaries, including a contribution of approximately $1.0 billion to AIG Property Casualty in the aftermath of Storm Sandy.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
121  

Table of Contents   

  On
February 19, 2013, AIG commenced cash tender offers for (i) our 8.625% Series A-8 Junior Subordinated Debentures and 8.000% Series A-7 Junior
Subordinated Debentures for a purchase price of up to $325 million, (ii) our 6.250% Series A-1 Junior Subordinated Debentures and 8.175% Series A-6
Junior Subordinated Debentures for a purchase price of up to $650 million and (iii) the 8 1 / 2 % Capital Trust Pass-Through Securities of American General
Capital II, the 7.57% Capital Securities, Series A of American General Institutional Capital A, the 8 1 / 8 % Capital Securities, Series B of American General
Institutional Capital B and the 5.60% Senior Debentures due July 2097 of SunAmerica Inc. assumed by AIG, for a purchase price of up to $275 million, in each case plus accrued
interest or distributions through the settlement date. The offers are not cross-conditioned and AIG may complete all, some or none of the tender offers. The offers are scheduled to expire on
March 18, 2013 with an early participation period through March 4, 2013, in each case subject to amendment and to extension in AIG's sole discretion. The purpose of the tender offers is
to purchase certain outstanding debt issued or guaranteed by AIG and to reduce its level of indebtedness and its interest expense.   

See
Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries   AIG Parent   Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent herein for
further discussion.   

Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash        

The following table presents selected data from AIG's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
122  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents a summary of AIG's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:   

Operating Cash Flow Activities

Interest payments totaled $4.0 billion in 2012 compared to $9.0 billion in 2011. Cash paid for interest in 2011 includes the payment of FRBNY Credit Facility
accrued compounded interest totaling $6.4 billion. Excluding interest payments, AIG generated positive operating cash flow of $7.7 billion and $8.9 billion in 2012 and 2011,
respectively.   

  Insurance
companies generally receive most premiums in advance of the payment of claims or policy benefits. The ability of insurance companies to generate positive cash flow is affected by the
frequency and severity of losses under their insurance policies, policy retention rates and operating expenses.   

  Cash
provided by AIG Property Casualty operating activities was $1.1 billion in 2012 compared to $1.9 billion in 2011, primarily reflecting the decrease in net premiums written as a
result of the continued execution of strategic initiatives to improve business mix and the timing of the cash flows used to pay claims and claims adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance
recoveries.   

  Cash
provided by operating activities by AIG Life and Retirement was $2.9 billion in 2012 compared to $2.4 billion in 2011, primarily reflecting efforts to actively manage spread income.   

  Cash
provided by operating activities of discontinued operations of $2.9 billion in 2012 compared to $6.2 billion in 2011, includes ILFC, and in 2011 and 2010, foreign life insurance
subsidiaries that were divested in 2011, including Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison.   

  Net
cash provided by operating activities declined in 2011 compared to 2010, principally due to the following:  

the cash payment by AIG Parent of $6.4 billion in accrued compounded interest and fees under the FRBNY Credit
Facility. In prior periods, these payments were paid in-kind and did not affect operating cash flows;   
           cash provided by operating activities of foreign life subsidiaries declined by $10.4 billion due to the sale of
those subsidiaries (AIA, ALICO, AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan). The subsidiaries generated operational cash inflows of $3.4 billion and $13.8 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively;
and   
           the effect of catastrophes and the cession of a large portion of AIG Property Casualty's net asbestos liabilities in the
U.S. to NICO. Excluding the impact of the NICO cession and catastrophes, cash provided by AIG's reportable segments in 2011 is consistent with 2010, as increases in claims paid were offset by
increases in premiums collected at the insurance subsidiaries.    

Investing Cash Flow Activities

Net cash provided by investing activities for 2012 includes the following items:  

payments received relating to the sale of the underlying assets held by ML II of approximately $1.6 billion;    
           payments of approximately $8.5 billion received in connection with the dispositions of ML III assets by the FRBNY;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
123  

Table of Contents    

gross proceeds of approximately $14.5 billion from the sale of approximately 4.0 billion AIA ordinary
shares; and  
           approximately $2.1 billion of cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program launched
during 2012 by AIG Life and Retirement.    

  Net
cash provided by investing activities in 2011 was primarily attributable to:  

the utilization of $26.4 billion of restricted cash generated from the AIA IPO and ALICO sale in connection with
the Recapitalization and $9.6 billion from the disposition of MetLife securities;   
           the sale of AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan in 2011 for total proceeds of $6.4 billion; and    
           net sales of short term investments and maturities of available for sale investments, primarily at AIG Property Casualty
and AIG Life and Retirement, which were partially offset by purchases of available for sale investments.    

  Net
cash used in investing activities in 2010 primarily resulted from net purchases of fixed maturity securities, resulting from our investment of cash generated from operating activities, and the
redeployment of liquidity that had been accumulated by the insurance companies in 2009.   

Financing Cash Flow Activities

Net cash used in financing activities during 2012 includes the following activities:  

$8.6 billion pay down of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests; and    
           total payments of approximately $13.0 billion for the purchase of approximately 421 million shares of AIG
Common Stock.    

  Net
cash used in financing activities for 2011 primarily resulted from the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility and the $12.4 billion partial repayment of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests and
the ALICO SPV in connection with the Recapitalization and use of proceeds received from the sales of foreign life insurance entities in 2011.   

  Net
cash used in financing activities in 2010 reflected declines in policyholder contract withdrawals, due to improved conditions for the life insurance and retirement services businesses. This was
partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt.   

Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries

AIG Parent

As of December 31, 2012, AIG Parent had $16.1 billion in liquidity resources. AIG Parent's primary sources of liquidity are dividends, distributions, and other
payments from subsidiaries, as well as
credit and contingent liquidity facilities. AIG Parent's primary uses of liquidity are for debt service, capital management, operating expenses and subsidiary capital needs.   

AIG
Parent's primary sources of capital are dividends and distributions from subsidiaries. AIG Parent has unconditional capital maintenance agreements (CMAs) in place with certain AIG Property
Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries to facilitate the transfer of capital and liquidity within the consolidated company. We expect these CMAs to continue to enhance AIG's capital
management practices, and help manage the flow of capital between AIG Parent and these subsidiaries. We have entered into and expect to enter into additional CMAs with certain other insurance
companies in 2013. See AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement below for additional information. Nevertheless, regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit our ability to transfer
capital freely, either to or from our subsidiaries.   

  We
believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy future requirements and meet our obligations to policyholders, customers, creditors and debt-holders. We
expect to access the debt markets from time to time to meet funding requirements as needed.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
124  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents AIG Parent's liquidity:   

(a)     Includes
reverse repurchase agreements totaling $8.9 billion, which are secured short term investments.   

  (b)     AIG
entered into an amended and restated syndicated bank credit facility on October 5, 2012. For additional information relating to this credit facility, see Credit Facilities
below.   

  (c)     For
additional information relating to the contingent liquidity facility, see Contingent Liquidity Facilities below.   

Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent     

Sources   

During 2012, we:                 sold our entire interest of approximately 3.9 billion AIA ordinary shares for gross proceeds of approximately $14.0 billion (excluding proceeds from the sale of AIA ordinary shares held by AIA SPV to an AIG Property Casualty
subsidiary);                   received approximately
$8.5 billion in distributions from the FRBNY's dispositions of ML III assets;                   collected approximately $5.2 billion in cash distributions from subsidiaries, including:                  approximately $2.9 billion in note repayments from AIG Life and Retirement
subsidiaries funded by payments of dividends from subsidiaries of which $1.6 billion represented proceeds from the FRBNY's sale of ML II assets;                   approximately $1.5 billion in cash dividends from AIG Property Casualty;
                 $400 million in dividends from
the AIA SPV, representing the proceeds from the sale of shares of AIA held by the AIA SPV to an AIG Property Casualty subsidiary;         
         received non-cash dividends of approximately $1.0 billion in the form of municipal bonds from AIG Property Casualty;   
              issued $750 million principal amount of 3.000% Notes
Due 2015 and $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.800% Notes Due 2017. These proceeds were used to continue to reduce the risk of, and better match the assets and liabilities in, the MIP (described more fully in Other Operations  
Direct Investment Book below);                   issued
$1.5 billion principal amount of 4.875% Notes Due 2022. These proceeds are being used for general corporate purposes which are currently expected to include the repayment of debt maturing in 2013;                  issued $250 million principal amount of 2.375% Subordinated Notes Due 2015.
Proceeds from this offering are being used for general corporate purposes; and                  received approximately $1.0 billion that was released to AIG from an escrow that secures indemnifications provided to MetLife under the ALICO stock purchase agreement
(see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). 

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
125  

Table of Contents   

Uses   

During 2012, we:                 purchased an aggregate of approximately $13.0 billion of AIG Common Stock at the initial public offering price in four registered public offerings of AIG Common Stock completed by the Department of the Treasury, as the selling
shareholder; we purchased approximately 421 million shares (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these offerings);                   retired $3.2 billion of debt, including $2.6 billion of MIP long-term
debt, and made interest pay- ments totaling $2.1 billion;                   utilized approximately $1.6 billion in proceeds from the distributions from ML II, approximately $6.0 billion in gross proceeds from the sale of AIA ordinary shares and existing funds from the MIP to pay down in
full the liquidation preference of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests and redeem the Department of the Treasury's preferred participating return rights in the AIA SPV and the ALICO SPV; as a result, the following items, which had been held as security
to support the repayment of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests, were released from that pledge:                 the equity interests in ILFC,                   the ordinary shares of AIA held by the AIA SPV,                   the common equity interest in the AIA SPV held by us,       
           our interests in ML III, and         
         cash held in escrow to secure indemnifications provided to MetLife under the ALICO stock purchase agreement.                   paid $550 million as a result of final approval of a settlement
under the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information); and      
           made $1.2 billion in net capital contributions to subsidiaries, including a contribution of approximately $1.0 billion to AIG
Property Casualty in the aftermath of Storm Sandy.  

AIG Property Casualty

We expect that AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including those arising from
reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries maintain substantial liquidity in the
form of cash and short-term investments, totaling $8.6 billion as of December 31, 2012. Further, AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries maintain significant levels of
investment-grade fixed maturity securities, including substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds, which could be monetized in the event liquidity levels are deemed insufficient.   

  AIG
Property Casualty paid cash and non-cash dividends totaling of $2.5 billion to AIG Parent in 2012, consisting of cash and municipal bonds, including $902 million of cash
dividends in the fourth quarter of 2012.   

  In
December 2012, AIG Parent contributed $1.0 billion of capital to AIG Property Casualty U.S. insurance companies to strengthen capital levels, as a result of the impact of Storm Sandy-related
catastrophe losses.   

  AIG
Parent could be required to provide additional funding to AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries to meet capital or liquidity needs under certain circumstances,
including:  

large catastrophes that may require AIG to provide additional support to the affected operations;    
           downgrades in AIG's credit ratings that could put pressure on the insurer financial strength ratings of AIG's subsidiaries
which could result in non-renewals or cancellations by policyholders and adversely affect the subsidiary's ability to meet its own obligations;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
126  

Table of Contents   

increases in market interest rates that may adversely affect the financial strength ratings of our subsidiaries, as rating
agency capital models may reduce the amount of available capital relative to required capital; and  
           other potential events that could cause a liquidity strain, including economic collapse of a nation or region significant
to our operations, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, pandemics or other events causing economic or political upheaval.    

In
February 2012, AIG Parent, Chartis Inc. and certain AIG Property Casualty domestic insurance subsidiaries, entered into a single CMA, which replaced the CMAs entered into in February 2011.
Under the 2012 CMA, the total adjusted capital and total authorized control level Risk-Based Capital (RBC) (as defined by National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) guidelines
and determined based on the subsidiaries' statutory financial statements) of these AIG Property Casualty insurance subsidiaries are measured as a group (the Fleet) rather than on an individual company
basis.   

  Among
other things, the 2012 CMA provides that AIG Parent will maintain the total adjusted capital of the Fleet at or above the specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's projected total authorized
control level RBC. As a result, the 2012 CMA provides that if the total adjusted capital of the Fleet falls below the specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's total authorized control level RBC,
AIG Parent will contribute cash or other instruments admissible under applicable regulations to Chartis Inc., which will further contribute such funds to the AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries
in the amount necessary to increase the Fleet's total adjusted capital to a level at least equal to such specified minimum percentage. Any required contribution under the 2012 CMA would generally be
made during the second and fourth quarters of each year; however, AIG Parent may also make contributions in such amounts and at such times as it deems appropriate. In addition, the 2012 CMA provides
that if the total adjusted capital of the Fleet exceeds that same specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's total authorized control level RBC, subject to board approval, the AIG Property Casualty
insurance subsidiaries would declare and pay ordinary dividends to their respective equity holders up to an amount that is the lesser of:   

(i)    the
amount (to be determined by Chartis Inc.) necessary to reduce the Fleet's projected or actual total adjusted capital to a level equal to or not
materially greater than such specified minimum percentage or
      (ii)    the
maximum amount of ordinary dividends permitted under applicable insurance law.    

  The
2012 CMA does not prohibit, however, the payment of extraordinary dividends, subject to board or regulatory approval, to reduce the Fleet's projected or actual total adjusted capital to a level
equal to or not materially greater than the specified minimum percentage. Any required dividend under the 2012 CMA would generally be made on a quarterly basis. As structured, the 2012 CMA
contemplates that the specified minimum percentage would be reviewed and agreed upon at least annually.   

  For
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, AIG Parent received $2.3 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, in dividends from Chartis Inc. that were made pursuant to
the CMAs then in place, and AIG Parent was not required to make any capital contributions in either period pursuant to the CMAs then in place.   

  On
February 20, 2013, the 2012 CMA was amended to exclude deferred tax assets from the calculation of total adjusted capital. As a result, effective February 20, 2013, the specified
minimum percentage decreased from 350 percent to 325 percent.   

  In
March 2012, the National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (NUFI), an AIG Property Casualty company, became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Pittsburgh. In August
2012, Chartis Specialty Insurance Company (CSI), an AIG Property Casualty company, became a member of the FHLB of Chicago. FHLB membership provides participants with access to various services,
including access to low-cost advances through pledging of certain mortgage-backed securities, government and agency securities and other qualifying assets. These advances may be used to
provide an additional source of liquidity for balance sheet management or contingency funding purposes. As of December 31, 2012, neither NUFI nor CSI had any advances outstanding under their
respective FHLB facilities.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
127  

Table of Contents   

AIG Life and Retirement

We believe that AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries have liquidity sources adequate to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including those
arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. The AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries maintain liquidity
in the form of cash and short-term investments, totaling $7.8 billion as of December 31, 2012. In 2012, AIG Life and Retirement provided $2.9 billion of liquidity to
AIG Parent through note repayments funded by the payment of dividends from insurance subsidiaries. These payments included a $1.6 billion distribution relating to the liquidation of ML II and a
distribution of $440 million in the form of a note repayment.   

  The
need to fund product surrenders, withdrawals and maturities creates a significant potential liquidity requirement for AIG Life and Retirement's subsidiaries. We believe that because of the size
and liquidity of our investment portfolios, AIG Life and Retirement does not face a significant liquidity risk due to normal deviations from projected claim or surrender experience. As part of its
risk management framework, AIG Life and Retirement continues to evaluate programs, including securities lending programs and other secured financings, to improve its liquidity position and facilitate
AIG Life and Retirement's ability to maintain a fully invested asset portfolio.   

  During
2012, AIG Life and Retirement began utilizing programs that lend securities from its investment portfolio to supplement liquidity or for other uses as deemed appropriate by management. Under
these programs, the AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries lend securities to financial institutions and receive collateral equal to 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities.
Reinvestment of cash collateral received is restricted to highly liquid short-term investments. AIG Life and Retirement's liability to the borrower for collateral received was
$3.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. In addition, in 2011, certain AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries became members of the FHLBs in their respective districts. As of
December 31, 2012, AIG Life and Retirement had outstanding borrowings of $82 million from the FHLBs.   

  In
March 2011, AIG Parent entered into CMAs with certain AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries. Among other things, the CMAs provide that AIG Parent will maintain the total adjusted capital
of each of these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries at or above a specified minimum percentage of the subsidiary's projected Company Action Level RBC. As a result, the CMAs provide that if
the total adjusted capital of these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries falls below the specified minimum percentage of their respective Company Action Level RBC, AIG Parent will contribute
cash or instruments admissible under applicable regulations to these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries in the amount necessary to increase total adjusted capital to a level at least equal
to such specified minimum percentage. Any required contribution under the CMAs would generally be made
during the second and fourth quarters of each year; however, AIG Parent may also make contributions in such amounts and at such times as it deems appropriate.   

  In
addition, the CMAs provide that if the total adjusted capital of these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries is in excess of that same specified minimum percentage of their respective
total company action level RBC, subject to board approval, the subsidiaries would declare and pay ordinary dividends to their respective equity holders up to an amount that is the lesser
of:  

(i) the amount necessary to reduce projected or actual total adjusted capital to a level equal to or not materially
greater than such specified minimum percentage or   
           (ii) the maximum amount of ordinary dividends permitted under applicable insurance law.    

  The
CMAs do not prohibit, however, the payment of extraordinary dividends, subject to board and regulatory approval, to reduce projected or actual total adjusted capital to a level equal to or not
materially greater than the specified minimum percentage. Any required dividend under the CMAs would generally be made on a quarterly basis. As structured, the CMAs contemplate that the specified
minimum percentage would be reviewed and agreed upon at least annually. As a result of a reduction in rating agency minimum requirements and greater capital efficiency arising from the consolidation
of legal entities, the specified minimum percentage decreased from 435 percent to 385 percent effective February 19, 2013, except for the CMA with AGC Life Insurance Company,
where the specified minimum percentage remained at 250 percent.   

  For
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, AIG Parent received a total of approximately $2.9 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, in distributions from AIG Life and
Retirement subsidiaries in the form of note repayments funded by the payment of dividends from these subsidiaries, which were made under the CMAs. AIG Parent was not required to make any capital
contributions to AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries in either period under the CMAs then in place.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
128  

Table of Contents    

Other Operations

Mortgage Guaranty

We currently expect that our Mortgage Guaranty subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including
requirements arising out of reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. Mortgage Guaranty subsidiaries maintain
substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments, totaling $699 million as of December 31, 2012. Mortgage Guaranty businesses also maintain significant
levels of investment-grade fixed maturity securities, which could be monetized in the event liquidity levels are insufficient to meet obligations. These securities included substantial holdings in
municipal and corporate bonds totaling $3.5 billion at December 31, 2012.   

Global Capital Markets

GCM acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG and its subsidiaries and third parties to provide hedging services. It executes its derivative trades under
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements. The agreements with third parties typically require collateral postings. Many of GCM's transactions with AIG and its
subsidiaries also include collateral posting requirements. However, generally, no collateral is called under these contracts unless it is needed to satisfy posting requirements with third parties.
Most of GCM's CDS are subject to collateral posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties and asset classes. The amount of future collateral posting requirements is a function of
our credit ratings, the rating of the reference obligations and the market value of the relevant reference obligations, with the latter being the most
significant factor. We estimate the amount of potential future collateral postings associated with the super senior CDS using various methodologies. The contingent liquidity requirements associated
with such potential future collateral postings are incorporated into our liquidity planning assumptions.   

  As
of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, GCM had total assets of $8.0 billion and $9.6 billion and total liabilities of $4.9 billion and
$5.8 billion. GCM's assets consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, other receivables, net of allowance, and unrealized gains on swaps, options and forwards. GCM's
liabilities consist primarily of trade payables and unrealized losses on swaps, options and forwards. Collateral posted included in GCM to third parties was $4.2 billion and $5.1 billion
at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Collateral obtained included in GCM from third parties was $846 million and $1.2 billion at December 31,
2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The collateral amounts reflect counterparty netting adjustments available under master netting agreements and are inclusive of collateral that exceeded
the fair value of derivatives as of the reporting date.   

Direct Investment Book

The DIB is managed so that it maintains the liquidity that we believe is necessary to meet all of the DIB liabilities as they come due, even under stress scenarios, without
having to liquidate DIB assets or rely on additional liquidity from AIG Parent. If the DIB's risk target is breached, we expect to take appropriate actions to increase the DIB's liquidity sources or
reduce liquidity requirements to maintain the risk target, although no assurance can be given that this can be achieved under then-prevailing market conditions. Any additional liquidity
shortfalls would need to be funded by AIG Parent.   

  The
DIB's assets consist primarily of cash, short term investments, fixed maturity securities issued by U.S. government and government sponsored entities, mortgage and asset backed securities and, to
a lesser extent, bank loans and mortgage loans. The DIB's liabilities consist primarily of notes and other borrowings supported by assets as well as other short-term financing obligations. As of
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, the DIB had total assets of $28.5 billion and $31.0 billion and total liabilities of $23.8 billion and
$28.2 billion.   

  The
overall hedging activity for the assets and liabilities of the DIB is executed by GCM. The value of hedges related to the non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP in the DIB is
included within the assets and liabilities and operating results of GCM and are not included within the DIB operating results, assets or liabilities.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
129  

Table of Contents   

  Collateral
posted by operations included in the DIB to third parties was $4.3 billion and $5.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. This
collateral primarily consists of securities of the U.S. government and government sponsored entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties.   

  The
following summarizes significant liquidity events during 2012:  

The DIB used current program liquidity to pay down $6.6 billion in debt. In addition, in the first quarter of 2012,
AIG issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes, consisting of $750 million principal amount of 3.000% Notes Due 2015 and $1.25 billion principal amount of
3.800% Notes Due 2017. The proceeds from the sale of these notes were used to reduce overall risk and better match the assets and liabilities in the MIP. The notes are included within MIP notes
payable in the debt outstanding table in "Debt   Debt Maturities" below.   
           AIG Parent allocated cash from the MIP to pay down the AIA SPV Preferred Interests. In exchange, AIG's remaining interest
in ML III and the future proceeds from the cash held in escrow to secure indemnities provided to MetLife were allocated to the MIP.   
           The DIB received approximately $8.5 billion in distributions from the FRBNY's auctions of ML III assets.    

Credit Facilities

We maintain a committed revolving four-year syndicated credit facility (the Four-Year Facility) as a
potential source of liquidity for general corporate purposes.    The Four-Year Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit.
We currently expect to replace or extend the Four-Year Facility on or prior to its expiration in October 2016, although no assurance can be given that the Four-Year Facility
will be replaced on favorable terms or at all.   

  The
Four-Year Facility provides for $4.0 billion of unsecured revolving loans, which includes a $2.0 billion letter of credit sublimit. Our ability to borrow under the
Four-Year Facility is not contingent on our credit ratings. However, our ability to borrow under the Four-Year Facility is conditioned on the satisfaction of certain legal,
operating, administrative and financial covenants and other requirements contained in the Four-Year Facility. These include covenants relating to our maintenance of a specified total
consolidated net worth and total consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization. Failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the Four-Year Facility would restrict
our access to the Four-Year Facility and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.   

  See
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Four-Year Facility.   

Contingent Liquidity Facilities

AIG Parent has access to a contingent liquidity facility of up to $500 million as a potential source of liquidity for general corporate purposes. Under this facility,
we have the unconditional right, prior to December 15, 2015, to issue up to $500 million in senior debt to the counterparty, based on a put option agreement between AIG Parent and the
counterparty.   

  Our
ability to borrow under this facility is not contingent on our credit ratings.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
130  

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity:   

(a)     Includes
$24.3 billion of borrowings related to ILFC   

  (b)     Loss
reserves relate to the AIG Property Casualty and the Mortgage Guaranty business, and represent future loss and loss adjustment expense payments estimated based on historical loss
development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the payments by period presented above could be materially different from actual required payments. We believe that the
AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty subsidiaries maintain adequate financial resources to meet the actual required payments under these obligations.   

  (c)     Primarily
includes contracts to purchase future services and other capital expenditures.   

  (d)     Does
not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $4.4 billion ($4.1 billion excluding Aircraft Leasing), the timing of which is uncertain. In addition, the majority of our
credit default swaps require us to provide credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. At December 31, 2012, the fair value derivative liability was
$1.9 billion, relating to the super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio. At December 31, 2012, collateral posted with respect to these swaps was $1.6 billion.   

Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities

Insurance and investment contract liabilities, including GIC liabilities, relate to AIG Life and Retirement
businesses.    These liabilities include various investment-type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic
payments of a term certain nature. These liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual
maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) we are currently not making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non-scheduled event out of our control.   

  We
have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits. These assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates,
expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. Due to the
significance of the assumptions, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
131  

Table of Contents   

  amounts
presented in this table are undiscounted and exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

We
believe that AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries have adequate financial resources to meet the payments actually required under these obligations. These subsidiaries have substantial liquidity in
the form of cash and short-term investments. In addition, AIG Life and Retirement businesses maintain significant levels of investment-grade fixed income securities, including substantial
holdings in government and corporate bonds, and could seek to monetize those holdings in the event operating cash flows are insufficient. We expect liquidity needs related to GIC liabilities to be
funded through cash flows generated from maturities and sales of invested assets.   

Borrowings

Our borrowings exclude those incurred by consolidated investments and include hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value. We expect to repay the
long-term debt maturities and interest accrued on borrowings by AIG and its subsidiaries through maturing investments and asset sales, future cash flows from operations, cash flows
generated from invested assets, future debt issuance and other financing arrangements.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
132  

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments

The following table summarizes Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining
maturity:   

(a)     Primarily
represents liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond obligations.   

  (b)     Includes
residual value guarantees associated with aircraft and AIG Life and Retirement construction guarantees connected to affordable housing investments. Excludes potential amounts
for indemnification obligations included in asset sales agreements. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on indemnification obligations. .   

(c)     Includes
commitments to invest in private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. The commitments to
invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds are called at the discretion of each fund, as needed for funding new investments or expenses of the fund. The expiration of these
commitments is estimated in the table above based on the expected life cycle of the related fund, consistent with past trends of requirements for funding. Investors under these commitments are
primarily insurance and real estate subsidiaries.   

  (d)     Excludes
commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2013 is expected to be approximately $100 million for U.S. and non-U.S.
plans.   

  (e)     Does
not include guarantees, capital maintenance agreements or other support arrangements among AIG consolidated entities.   

  (f)      Includes
$340 million attributable to ILFC, which is reported as discontinued operations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
133  

Table of Contents   

Securities Financing

At December 31, 2012, there were no securities transferred under repurchase agreements accounted for as sales and no related cash collateral obtained. See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the modification of the criteria for determining whether securities transferred under repurchase agreements are
accounted for as sales.   

Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities

While AIG enters into various arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business, our involvement with VIEs is primarily as a passive
investor in fixed maturity securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. We consolidate a VIE when we are the primary beneficiary of the entity. For a further discussion of our
involvement with VIEs, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Indemnification Agreements

We are subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with our sales of businesses. These arrangements may be triggered by declines in asset
values, specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent liabilities, litigation developments, or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These arrangements
are typically subject to time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as by prevailing statutes of limitation. Depending on the specific terms of the arrangements, the
maximum potential obligation may or may not be subject to contractual limitations. For additional information regarding our indemnification agreements, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

  We
have recorded liabilities for certain of these arrangements where it is possible to estimate them. These liabilities are not material in the aggregate. We are unable to develop a reasonable
estimate of the maximum potential payout
under some of these arrangements. Overall, we believe that it is unlikely we will have to make any material payments related to completed sales under these arrangements.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
134  

Table of Contents   

Debt

The following table provides the rollforward of AIG's total debt outstanding:   

(a)     Primarily
represents activity related to ILFC.   

  (b)     AIG
Parent guarantees all DIB debt, except for MIP notes payable and Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable, which are direct obligations of AIG Parent.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
135  

Table of Contents   

Debt Maturities   AIG and Subsidiaries

The following table summarizes maturing debt at December 31, 2012 of AIG and its subsidiaries for the next four
quarters:   

AIG borrowings supported by assets consisted of debt under the DIB. At December 31, 2012, all of the debt maturities in the DIB through
December 31, 2013 are supported by short-term investments and maturing investments.   

  See
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details for debt outstanding.   

Credit Ratings

Credit ratings estimate a company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability to that
company of financing.    The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of February 13, 2013. Figures
in parentheses indicate the relative ranking of the ratings within the agency's rating categories; that ranking refers only to the major rating category and not to the modifiers assigned by the rating
agencies.   

Short-Term Debt  

Senior Long-Term Debt  

Moody's   
     
  S P   
     
  Moody's (a)    
     
  S P (b)    
     
  Fitch (c)    

AIG  
     
  P-2 (2nd of 3)  
     
  A-2 (2nd of 8)  
     
  Baa 1 (4th of 9)  
     
  A- (3rd of 8)  
     
  BBB (4th of 9)  

Stable Outlook   

Stable Outlook   
     
   Negative Outlook   
     
   Stable Outlook   

AIG Financial Products Corp. (d)              
     
  P-2  
     
  A-2  
     
  Baa 1  
     
  A-  

Stable Outlook   

Stable Outlook   
     
   Negative Outlook   

AIG Funding, Inc. (d)   
     
  P-2  
     
  A-2  

Stable Outlook   

(a)     Moody's
appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories.   

  (b)     S P
ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories.   

  (c)     Fitch
ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories.   

  (d)     AIG
guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Funding, Inc.   

These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of
changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at our request.   

  We
are party to some agreements that contain "ratings triggers". Depending on the ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies, these triggers could result in (i) the termination or
limitation of credit availability or require accelerated repayment, (ii) the termination of business contracts or (iii) requirement to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties.   

  In
the event of adverse actions on our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies, AIGFP would be required to post additional collateral under some derivative transactions, or to
permit termination of the transactions. Such transactions could adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period or our liquidity. In the event of a further
downgrade of AIG's long-term senior debt ratings, AIGFP would be required to post additional collateral, and certain of AIGFP's counterparties would be permitted to terminate their
contracts early.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
136  

Table of Contents   

  The
actual amount of collateral that we would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depend on
market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade.   

  For
a discussion of the effects of downgrades in the financial strength ratings of our insurance companies or our credit ratings, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.   

Regulation and Supervision

We are currently regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and subject to its examination, supervision and enforcement authority and reporting
requirements as a savings and loan holding company (SLHC). In addition, under Dodd-Frank we may separately become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the
FRB. In October 2012, we received a notice that we are under consideration by the Financial Stability Oversight Council created by Dodd-Frank for a proposed determination that we are a
systemically important financial institution (SIFI). Changes mandated by Dodd-Frank include directing the FRB to promulgate minimum capital requirements for both SLHCs and SIFIs. See
Item 1. Business   Regulation and Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation for further information.   

  Our
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. In the United States, the NAIC has developed RBC Model Law requirements.
The RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. The statutory surplus of each of our U.S.-based life and
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries exceeded minimum required RBC levels as of December 31, 2012. Our foreign insurance operations are individually subject to local solvency margin
requirements that require maintenance of adequate capitalization. We comply with these requirements in each country.   

  To
the extent that any of our insurance entities were to fall below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of support to that
entity, under formal support agreements, CMAs or otherwise. For additional details regarding CMAs that we have entered into with our insurance subsidiaries, see Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG
Parent and Subsidiaries   AIG Property Casualty and Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries   AIG Life and Retirement.   

Dividend Restrictions

Payment of future dividends to our shareholders depends in part on the regulatory framework that will ultimately be applicable to us, including our status as an SLHC under
Dodd-Frank and whether we are determined to be a SIFI. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of potential restrictions on dividend payments
to common shareholders.   

  Dividend
payments to AIG Parent by our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to our domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of
any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. Foreign jurisdictions may restrict the ability of our foreign insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends, which may also have unfavorable income tax consequences. There are also various local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to AIG Parent by our subsidiaries.
See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of restrictions on payments of dividends by AIG and its subsidiaries.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
137  

Table of Contents    

Investments    

OVERVIEW

Our investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives are driven by the business model for each of the
businesses: AIG Property Casualty, AIG Life and Retirement, and the Direct Investment book. The primary objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management
and growth of surplus to support the insurance products. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.   

Market Conditions

Our investments and investment strategies were affected by the following conditions in 2012:  

Central banks initiated actions intended to improve weakening economic conditions, including the European Central Bank's
commitment to further bond purchases and the U.S. Federal Reserve's commitment to maintain the Federal Funds Rate in the zero to a quarter percent range. The Federal Reserve also committed to support
the mortgage market via purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities, and extended "Operation Twist", a program of redeeming short-term U.S. Treasury securities and using the proceeds to
buy longer-term U.S. Treasury securities with the objective of putting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates.   
           Equity markets experienced positive returns.   
           Bond yields remained low in the U.S., as evidenced by the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate ending the year at
1.76 percent.   
           The U.S. dollar weakened during the year by 2 percent and 5 percent versus the Euro and British pound,
respectively, and strengthened 13 percent versus the Yen.    

Investment Strategies

At the local operating unit level, investment strategies are based on considerations that include the local market, general market conditions, liability duration and cash
flow characteristics, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations, tax optimization and diversification.   

In the case of life insurance and retirement services companies, as well as in the DIB, our fundamental investment
strategy is to match the duration characteristics of the liabilities with assets of comparable duration, to the extent practicable.   
           Fixed maturity securities held by the domestic insurance companies included in AIG Property Casualty historically have
consisted primarily of laddered holdings of tax-exempt municipal bonds, which provided attractive after-tax returns and limited credit risk. To meet the current
risk-return and tax objectives of AIG Property Casualty, cash flows from the investment portfolio and insurance operations are generally being reinvested by the domestic property and
casualty companies in taxable instruments which meet the companies' liquidity, duration and credit quality objectives as well as current risk-return and tax objectives.    
           Outside of the U.S., fixed maturity securities held by AIG Property Casualty companies consist primarily of intermediate
duration high-grade securities generally denominated in the currencies of the countries in which we operate.    

Investment Highlights

The following is an overview of investment activities during 2012:  

Purchases of corporate debt securities continued to be the largest asset allocation of new investments.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
138  

Table of Contents   

We continued to make risk-weighted opportunistic investments in RMBS and other structured securities to
improve yields and increase net investment income.   
           We purchased an aggregate of $7.1 billion of CDOs sold in the FRBNY auctions of ML III assets, and elected fair
value option accounting treatment on those assets.   
           Blended investment yields on new AIG Life and Retirement investments were lower than blended rates on investments that
were sold, matured or called. Base yields at AIG Property Casualty benefited from blended yields on new investments that were higher than the yields on investments that were sold, matured or called.    
           A continued low interest rate environment and narrowing spreads in many fixed income asset classes contributed to
unrealized gains in the investment portfolio.   
           Other-than-temporary-impairments on structured securities decreased from 2011.    
           We disposed of our remaining interest in AIA, and our position in ML III was liquidated.    

Credit Ratings

At December 31, 2012, approximately 88 percent of fixed maturity securities were held by our domestic entities. Approximately 17 percent of such
securities were rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies, and approximately 15 percent were rated below investment grade or not rated. Our investment decision process relies
primarily on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third-party rating services' ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspective for consideration in
the internal analysis.   

  A
significant portion of our foreign entities' fixed maturity securities portfolio is rated by Moody's, S P or similar foreign rating services. Rating services are not available for some foreign
issued securities. Our Credit Risk Management department closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio's non-rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2012,
approximately 18 percent of such investments were either rated AAA or, on
the basis of our internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities rated AAA, and approximately 3 percent were rated below investment grade or not rated at that date.
Approximately 49 percent of the foreign entities' fixed maturity securities portfolio is comprised of sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country of
issuance.   

  With
respect to our fixed maturity investments, the credit ratings in the table below and in subsequent tables reflect: (a) a composite of the ratings of the three major rating agencies, or
when agency ratings are not available, the rating assigned by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Securities Valuations Office (SVO) (over 99 percent of total fixed
maturity investments), or (b) our equivalent internal ratings when these investments have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies or the NAIC. The "Non-rated" category in
those tables consists of fixed maturity securities that have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies, the NAIC or us, and for 2011, represents primarily our interest in ML III at
December 31, 2011.   

  See
Enterprise Risk Management herein for a discussion of credit risks associated with Investments.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
139  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the composite AIG credit ratings of our fixed maturity securities calculated on the basis of their fair value:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
140  

Table of Contents   

Investments by Segment

The following tables summarize the composition of AIG's investments by reportable segment:   

(a)     At
December 31, 2012, approximately 88 percent and 12 percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign entities, respectively, compared to approximately
90 percent and 10 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2011.   

(b)     Includes
$12.4 billion of AIA ordinary shares at December 31, 2011.   

AIG Property Casualty

In our property casualty business, the duration of liabilities for long-tail casualty lines is greater than other lines. As differentiated from the life
insurance and retirement services companies, the focus is not on asset-liability matching, but on preservation of capital and growth of surplus.   

  Fixed
income holdings of AIG Property Casualty domestic operations, with an average duration of 4.0 years, are currently comprised primarily of tax-exempt securities, which provide
attractive risk-adjusted after-tax returns as well   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
141  

Table of Contents   

  as
taxable municipal bonds, government bonds and agency and corporate securities. The majority of these high quality investments are rated A or higher based on composite ratings.   

  Fixed
income assets held in AIG Property Casualty foreign operations are of high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging 3.5 years.   

While
invested assets backing reserves are invested in conventional fixed income securities in AIG Property Casualty domestic operations, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to alternative
investments, including private equity and hedge funds. Notwithstanding the current environment, these investments have provided a combination of added diversification and attractive
long-term returns over time.   

AIG Life and Retirement

With respect to AIG Life and Retirement, we use asset-liability management as a tool to determine the composition of the invested assets. Our objective is to maintain a
matched asset-liability structure, although we may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily in an unmatched position. To the extent that we have maintained a
matched asset-liability structure, the economic effect of interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated.   

  Our
investment strategy for AIG Life and Retirement is to produce cash flows greater than maturing insurance liabilities. There exists a future investment risk associated with certain policies
currently in-force which will have premium receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy
liabilities.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement frequently reviews its interest rate assumptions and actively manages the crediting rates used for its new and in force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to
maintain profitability of the overall business.   

  The
investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory investment
quality and liquidity.   

  A
number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain variable and indexed annuity products. The fair value of these benefits is
measured based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. We manage our exposure resulting from these long-term
guarantees through reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments. We actively review underlying assumptions of policyholder behavior and persistency related to these guarantees. We have taken
positions in certain derivative financial instruments in order to hedge the impact of changes in equity markets and interest rates on these benefit guarantees. We execute listed futures and options
contracts on equity indexes to hedge certain guarantees of variable and indexed annuity products. We also enter into various types of futures and options contracts, primarily to hedge changes in value
of certain guarantees of variable and indexed annuities due to fluctuations in interest rates. We use several instruments to hedge interest rate exposure, including listed futures on government
securities, listed options on government securities and the purchase of government securities.   

  With
respect to over-the-counter derivatives, we deal with highly rated counterparties and do not expect the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations under the
contracts. We have controls in place to monitor credit exposures by limiting transactions with specific counterparties within specified dollar limits and assessing the creditworthiness of
counterparties periodically. We generally use ISDA Master Agreements and Credit Support Annexes (CSAs) with bilateral collateral provisions to reduce counterparty credit exposures.   

  Fixed
income holdings of AIG Life and Retirement, with an average duration of 6.3 years, are comprised of taxable corporate bonds, as well as municipal and government bonds, commercial mortgage
loans, and agency and non-agency structured securities. The majority of these investments are held in the available for sale portfolio and are rated investment grade based on our composite
ratings.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
142  

Table of Contents   

Available-for-Sale Investments

The following table presents the fair value of our available-for-sale securities:   

*         At
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, bonds available for sale held by us that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $29.6 billion and
$24.2 billion, respectively.   

Investments in Municipal Bonds

At December 31, 2012, the U.S. municipal bond portfolio was composed primarily of essential service revenue bonds and high-quality tax-backed
bonds with 97 percent of the portfolio rated A or higher.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
143  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the fair values of our available for sale U.S. municipal bond portfolio by state and municipal bond type:   

(a)     Excludes
certain university and not- for- profit entities that issue their bonds in the corporate debt market. Includes industrial revenue bonds.   

  (b)     Includes
$7.9 billion of pre-refunded municipal bonds.   

Investments in Corporate Debt Securities

The following table presents the industry categories of our available for sale corporate debt securities based on amortized cost:   

*         At
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, approximately 94 percent and 95 percent, respectively, of these investments were rated investment grade.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
144  

Table of Contents   

Investments in RMBS

The following table presents our RMBS available for sale investments by year of vintage:   

*         Includes
approximately $10.9 billion of securities that were purchased at a significant discount to amortized cost commencing in the second quarter of 2011.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
145  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents our RMBS available for sale investments by credit rating:   

(a)     Commencing
in the second quarter of 2011, we began purchasing certain RMBSs that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their origination. See Note 7 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments   Purchased Credit Impaired (PCI) Securities, for additional discussion.   

  (b)     The
weighted average expected life was 6 years at both December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively.   

Our underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset-backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the
servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
146  

Table of Contents    

Investments in CMBS

The following table presents our CMBS available for sale investments:     

The following table presents our CMBS available for sale investments by year of vintage:     

The following table presents our CMBS available for sale investments by credit rating:     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
147  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the percentage of our CMBS available for sale investments by geographic region based on amortized
cost:   

*         Includes
Non-U.S. locations.   

   The following table presents the percentage of our CMBS available for sale investments by industry based on amortized
cost:   

*         Includes
Agency-backed CMBS.   

  The fair value of CMBS holdings remained stable throughout 2012. The majority of our investments in CMBS are in tranches that contain substantial protection
features through collateral subordination. As indicated in the tables, downgrades have occurred on many CMBS holdings. The majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly
diversified across property types and geographical areas.   

Investments in CDOs

The following table presents our CDO available for sale investments by collateral type:     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
148  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents our CDO available for sale investments by credit rating:     

Commercial Mortgage Loans

At December 31, 2012, we had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $13.8 billion. At that date, over 99 percent of the loans were current.   

The following table presents the commercial mortgage loan exposure by location and class of loan based on amortized cost:   

*         Excludes
portfolio valuation losses.   

AIA Investment

We sold our remaining 33 percent interest in AIA ordinary shares for proceeds of $14.5 billion and a net gain of $2.1 billion through three sale
transactions on March 7, September 11 and December 20, 2012.   

  See
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
149  

Table of Contents   

Impairments

The following table presents impairments by investment type:   

(a)     Impairments
of investments in Life settlement contracts are recorded in Other realized losses.   

  (b)     Impairments
of investments in Real estate are recorded in Other income.   

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments

To determine other-than-temporary impairments, we use fundamental credit analyses of individual securities without regard to rating agency ratings.
Based on this analysis, we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to cover the amortized cost of all below investment grade securities for which credit impairments were not recognized.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
150  

Table of Contents   

   The following tables present other-than-temporary impairment charges recorded in earnings on fixed maturity securities, equity securities, private
equity funds and hedge funds.   

   Other-than-temporary impairment charges by reportable segment and impairment type:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
151  

Table of Contents   

   Other-than-temporary impairment charges by investment type and impairment type:   

*         Includes
other-than-temporary impairment charges on private equity funds, hedge funds and direct private equity investments.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
152  

Table of Contents   

   Other-than-temporary impairment charges by investment type and credit rating:     

*         Includes
other-than-temporary impairment charges on private equity funds, hedge funds and direct private equity investments.   

  We recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 related
to:  

issuer-specific credit events;   
           securities for which we have changed our intent from hold to sell;   
           declines due to foreign exchange rates;   
           adverse changes in estimated cash flows on certain structured securities;   
           securities that experienced severe market valuation declines; and   
           other impairments, including equity securities, private equity funds, hedge funds, direct private equity investments,
aircraft trusts and investments in life settlement contracts.    

  There
was no significant impact to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations from other-than-temporary impairment charges for any one single credit. Also,
no individual other-than-temporary impairment charge exceeded 0.11 percent, 0.20 percent and 0.20 percent of total equity at December 31, 2012, 2011
or 2010, respectively.   

  In
periods subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign-exchange related, we
generally prospectively accrete into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining life of the security. The accretion that was
recognized for these securities in earnings was $915 million in 2012, and   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
153  

Table of Contents   

  $542 million
in 2011, and $401 million in 2010. For a discussion of AIG's other-than-temporary impairment accounting policy, see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

   The following table shows the aging of the pre-tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, the extent to which the fair value is less than
amortized cost or cost, and the number of respective items in each category:   

(a)      Represents
the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount.   

  (b)      Represents
the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at December 31, 2012.   

  (c)      For
bonds, represents amortized cost.   

  (d)      The
effect on Net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will result in current decreases in the amortization of
certain DAC.   

  (e)      Item
count is by CUSIP by subsidiary.   

  For 2012, net unrealized gains related to fixed maturity and equity securities increased by $10.4 billion primarily due to the decline in interest rates
and narrowing of credit spreads.   

  As
of December 31, 2012, the majority of our fixed maturity investments in an unrealized loss position of more than 50 percent for 12 months or more consisted of the unrealized
loss of $138 million primarily related to CMBS and RMBS securities originally rated investment grade that are floating rate or that have low fixed coupons relative to current market yields. A
total of 2 securities with an amortized cost of $12 million and a net unrealized loss of $10 million are still investment grade. As part of our credit evaluation procedures we consider
the nature of both the specific securities and the market conditions for those securities. For most security types supported by real estate-related assets, current market yields continue to be higher
than the yields at the time those securities were issued. In addition, for floating rate securities, persistently low LIBOR levels continue to make these securities less attractive to secondary
purchasers of these assets.   

  We
believe that these securities are trading at significant price discounts primarily due to the lack of demand for commercial and residential real estate collateral-based securities, low contractual
coupons and interest rate spreads, and the deterioration in the level of collateral support due to real estate market conditions. Based on our analysis, and taking into account the level of
subordination below these securities, we continue to believe that the expected cash flows from these securities will be sufficient to recover the amortized cost of our investment. We continue to
monitor these positions for potential credit impairments that could result from further deterioration in commercial and residential real estate fundamentals.   

  See
also Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our investment portfolio.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
154  

Enterprise Risk Management  

At AIG, risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these
thresholds while optimizing returns. We consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses and a key element of our approach to corporate governance.   

OVERVIEW 

At AIG, we have an integrated process for managing risks throughout our organization in accordance with our firm-wide risk appetite. Our Board of Directors has oversight responsibility for the management
of risk. Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Department supervises and integrates the risk management functions in each of our business units, providing senior management with a consolidated view of the firm's major risk positions. Within each
business unit, senior leaders and executives approve risk-taking policies and targeted risk tolerance within the framework provided by ERM. ERM supports our businesses and management in the embedding of enterprise risk management in all of our key
day to day business processes and in identifying, assessing, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks taken by us and our businesses.   

Risk Governance Structure 

Our risk governance fosters the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture that encompasses all significant risk categories. Accountability for the implementation and oversight of risk policies is aligned with individual corporate
executives, with the risk committees receiving regular reports regarding compliance with each policy to support risk governance at our corporate level as well as in each business unit   .  

Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) 

Our ERM framework provides
senior management with a consolidated view of our risk appetite and major risk positions.                   In each of our business units, senior leaders and executives approve risk-taking policies and targeted risk tolerance within the ERM framework while working with AIG ERM to
mitigate risks across the firm. 
                 Risk management is an integral part of
how we manage our core businesses.  

Our Board of Directors oversees the management of risk through its Finance and Risk Management Committee (the FRMC) and the Audit Committee. Those committees
regularly interact with other committees of the Board. Our Executive Vice President (EVP) and Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports to both the FRMC and AIG's Chief Executive Officer (CEO).   

The Group Risk Committee (the GRC)    is the senior management group charged
with assessing all significant risk issues on a global basis in order to protect our financial strength, optimize our intrinsic value, and protect our reputation among key stakeholders. The GRC is
chaired by our CRO. Its membership includes our CEO, EVP and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), EVP and General Counsel, and 12 other executives from across our corporate functions and business units. Our
CRO reports periodically on behalf of the GRC to both the FRMC and the Audit Committee of the Board.   

  Management
committees that support the GRC are described below. These committees are comprised of senior executives and experienced business representatives from a range of functions and business
units throughout AIG and its subsidiaries. These committees are charged with identifying, analyzing and reviewing specific risk matters within their respective mandates.   

Financial Risk Group (FRG):       The FRG is responsible for the
oversight of financial risks taken by AIG and its subsidiaries. Its mandate includes overseeing our aggregate credit, market, interest rate, liquidity and model risks, as well as asset-liability
management, derivatives activity, and foreign exchange transactions. Membership of the FRG includes our EVP   Investments, EVP and Treasurer, as well as our EVP and CFO, and other
senior executives from Finance and ERM. Our CRO serves as Chair of the FRG.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
155  

Transaction Approval and Business Practices Committee
(TABPC):       TABPC provides the primary corporate-level review function for all proposed transactions and business practices that are
significant in size, complex in scope, or that present heightened legal, reputational, accounting or regulatory risks. Our EVP and Treasurer serves as TABPC Chair and additional members include our
EVP and General Counsel, EVP and CRO, EVP and CFO, EVP   Investments, and a senior executive from Finance.   

Operational Risk Committee (ORC):       This Committee is tasked
with overview of the enterprise-wide identification, escalation and mitigation of risks that may arise from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or external events.
The Committee approves AIG's Operational Risk Management (ORM) framework and related policies, which includes the risk and control self assessment (RCSA), Risk Events, Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) and
Scenario Analysis. The Committee monitors the adequacy of ORM staffing and ensures applicable governance structures are established to provide oversight of operational risk at each Business Unit and
Corporate Function. The ORC also reviews aggregate firm-wide operational risk
reports. Our Chief Administrative Officer is Chair of the ORC and our Head of Operational Risk Management serves as ORC Secretary. Other ORC members include senior AIG executives with expertise in
legal, compliance, technology, finance and operational risk, as well as business continuity management and the chief risk officers of our business units.   

Business Unit Risk Committees:       Each of our major insurance
businesses has established a risk and capital committee (BU RCC) that serves as the senior management committee responsible for risk oversight at the individual business unit level. The BU RCCs are
responsible for the identification, assessment and monitoring of all sources of risk within their respective portfolios. Specific responsibilities include setting risk tolerances, approving capital
management strategies (including asset allocation and risk financing), insurance portfolio optimization, risk management policies and providing oversight of economic capital models. In addition to its
BU RCC, each major insurance business has established subordinate committees which identify, assess and monitor the specific operational, transactional and financial risks inherent in its respective
business. Together, the BU Risk Committees and AIG Risk Committees described above provide comprehensive risk oversight throughout the organization.   

  Risk
oversight activities also continue to be coordinated with discontinued operations, such as ILFC, until pending sale transactions are closed.   

Risk Appetite, Identification, and Measurement

ERM has developed a company-wide Risk Appetite Statement (RAS), which will be updated on at least an annual basis. By formally defining our risk appetite, we
seek to integrate stakeholder interests, business goals and available financial resources through taking measured risks that are intended to generate repeatable, sustainable earnings and produce
long-term value and stability.   

  The
RAS articulates our risk-taking capacity by setting consolidated capital and liquidity tolerances as observed under expected and stressed business and economic conditions. RAS also
reflects constraints on minimum capital positions for our insurance operations. These constraints inform the requirements for capital adequacy for individual businesses, based on capital assessments
under rating agency, regulatory and other business needs. Consistent with our risk appetite, we have established risk tolerances that are reflected in our business planning and are integrated into the
management of our operations. Risk tolerances cover insurance company capital ratios as well as metrics associated with AIG Parent resources, including consolidated company capital ratios and parent
liquidity. Our GRC routinely reviews the level of risk taken by the consolidated organization in relation to established risk tolerances. A consolidated risk report is also presented to the FRMC by
our CRO.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
156  

We employ various approaches to measure, monitor, and manage risk exposures, including the utilization of a variety of metrics and early warning indicators. We
use a proprietary stress testing framework to measure our quantifiable risks. This framework is built on our existing ERM stress testing methodology for both insurance and non-insurance
operations. The framework measures risk over multiple time horizons and under different levels of stress. We develop a range of stress scenarios based both on internal experience and regulatory
guidance. The stress tests are intended to ensure that sufficient resources for our regulated subsidiaries and the consolidated company are available under both idiosyncratic and systemic market
stress conditions.   

  The
stress testing framework assesses our aggregate exposure to our most significant financial and insurance risks, including the risk in each of our regulated subsidiaries in relation to its
statutory capital needs under stress, risks inherent in our unregulated subsidiaries, and risks to AIG consolidated capital. Using our stress testing methodology, we evaluate the capital and earnings
impact of potential stresses in relation to the relevant capital constraint of each business operation. We use this information to determine the liquidity resources AIG Parent needs to support
insurance operations, contingent liquidity required from AIG Parent under stressed scenarios for non-insurance operations, and capital resources required to maintain consolidated company
target capitalization levels.   

  To
complement our risk policies and governance framework, we also employ an enterprise-wide vulnerability identification (VID) process. The process is designed to ensure that potential new
or emerging risks are brought to the attention of senior management. On a bi-annual basis, our VID process solicits this information from a broad range of senior managers across the
organization. This process enables vulnerabilities that are not captured by other risk management practices to be identified and reported to senior management on a regular basis.   

We
evaluate and manage risk in material topics as shown below. These topics are discussed in more detail in the following pages:   

Credit Risk  
     
                 Liquidity Risk  
     
                 Insurance Operations
Risks  

Market Risk  
     
                 Operational Risk  
     
                 Global Capital Markets
Risks  

Credit Risk Management

Overview

Credit risk is defined as the risk that our customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual
obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also result from a downgrade of counterparty's credit ratings.  

  We
devote considerable resources to managing our direct and indirect credit exposures. These exposures may arise from fixed income investments, equity securities, deposits, reverse repurchase
agreements and repurchase agreements, commercial paper, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance recoverables, counterparty risk arising from derivatives activities, collateral extended to
counterparties, insurance risk cessions to third parties, financial guarantees and letters of credit.   

  Our
credit risks are managed at the corporate level within ERM. ERM is assisted by credit functions headed by seasoned credit officers in all the business units, whose primary role is to assure
appropriate credit risk management relative to our credit risk parameters. Our Chief Credit Officer (CCO) and credit executives are primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of credit
risk policies and procedures.   

  Responsibilities
of the CCO and credit executives include:  

developing and implementing our company-wide credit policies;    
           approving delegated credit authorities to our credit executives;   
           managing the approval process for requests for credit limits, program limits and credit transactions above authorities or
where concentrations of risk may exist or be incurred;   
           aggregating globally all credit exposure data by counterparty, country, sector and industry and reporting risk
concentrations regularly to and reviewing with senior management;   
           administering regular portfolio credit reviews of investment, derivative and credit-incurring business units and
recommending corrective actions where required;   
           conducting credit research on countries, sectors and asset classes where risk concentrations may exist;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
157  

developing methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of
our internal risk rating process; and   
           approving appropriate credit reserves, credit-related other-than-temporary impairments and
corresponding methodologies in all credit portfolios.    

  We
monitor and control our company-wide credit risk concentrations and attempt to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of
credit risk in some circumstances, we may require third-party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, such as letters of credit and trust collateral accounts. We treat these guarantees, reinsurance
recoverables, letters of credit and trust collateral accounts as credit exposure and include them in our risk concentration exposure data. We identify our aggregate credit exposures to our underlying
counterparty risks.   

Largest Credit Concentrations

Our single largest credit exposure, the U.S. Government, was 25 percent of Total equity at December 31, 2012 compared to 30 percent at
December 31, 2011. Exposure to the U.S. Government primarily includes credit exposure related to U.S. Treasury and government agency securities and to direct and guaranteed exposures to U.S.
government-sponsored entities, primarily the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) based upon their U.S. Government
conservatorship. The reduction in exposure was primarily related to U.S. government-sponsored entities.   

  Based
on our internal risk ratings, at December 31, 2012, our largest below investment grade-rated credit exposure, apart from ILFC leasing arrangements secured by aircraft with airlines having
below investment grade ratings, was related to a non-financial corporate counterparty and that exposure was 0.6 percent of Total equity, compared to 0.5 percent at
December 31, 2011.   

Government Credit Concentrations (non-U.S.)

Our total direct and guaranteed credit exposure to non-U.S. governments is $22.5 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $26.2 billion in
December 31, 2011. Our single largest concentration was to the government of Japan in the amount of $8.1 billion at December 31, 2012. Most of these securities were held in the
investment portfolios of our Japanese insurance operations.   

   The following table presents our aggregate (gross and net) credit exposures to non-U.S. governments:   

Financial Institution Concentrations

Our single largest industry credit exposure in 2012 was to the global financial institutions sector as a whole, which includes banks and finance companies, securities firms,
and insurance and reinsurance companies, many of which can be highly correlated at times of market stress. As of December 31, 2012, credit exposure to this sector was $85.5 billion, or
84 percent of Total equity compared to 106 percent at December 31, 2011.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
158  

At December 31, 2012:  

$80.6 billion, or 94 percent, of these global financial institution credit exposures were considered
investment grade based on our internal ratings.   
           $4.9 billion, or 6 percent, were considered non-investment grade. Most of the
non-investment grade exposure was to financial institutions in countries that we believe are not of investment grade quality. Aggregate credit exposure to the ten largest below investment
grade-rated financial institutions was $2.1 billion.   
           Our aggregate credit exposure to fixed maturity securities of the financial institution sector amounted to
$34.4 billion.   
           Short-term bank deposit placements, reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and commercial paper
issued by financial institutions (primarily commercial banks), operating account balances with banks and bank-issued commercial letters of credit supporting insurance credit exposures were
$20.4 billion, or 24 percent of the total global financial institution credit exposure.   
           The remaining credit exposures to this sector were primarily related to reinsurance recoverables, collateral extended to
counterparties mostly pursuant to derivative transactions, derivatives, and captive fronting risk management programs for these financial institutions.    

European Concentrations

We actively monitor our European credit exposures, especially those exposures to issuers in the Euro-Zone
periphery.    We use various stress assumptions to identify issuers and securities warranting review by senior management and to determine the need for
mitigating actions. As a mitigating action, we typically decide not to renew maturing exposures or, when the opportunity presents itself, to sell or to tender securities. To date, we have not actively
used credit default protection. We periodically evaluate the financial condition of issuers and adjust internal risk ratings as warranted.   

  The
result of these continuing reviews has led us to believe that our combined credit risk exposures to sovereign governments, financial institutions and non-financial corporations in the
Euro-Zone are manageable risks given the type and size of exposure and the credit quality and size of the issuers.   

   The following table presents our aggregate United Kingdom and European credit exposures (excluding ILFC) by major sector:   

(a)     Other
represents mortgage guaranty insurance ($1.3 billion), primarily in Spain ($941 million) and Italy ($188 million).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
159  

Table of Contents    

  Aggregate credit exposure to European governments totaled $6.0 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $7.6 billion at
December 31, 2011. Many of the European governments' ratings have been downgraded by one or more of the major rating agencies, occurring mostly in countries in the Euro-Zone
periphery (Spain, Italy and Portugal) where our government credit exposures totaled $245 million at December 31, 2012. The downgrades primarily reflect large government budget deficits,
rising government debt-to-GDP ratios and large financing requirements of these countries, which have led to difficult financing conditions. These credit exposures primarily
included available-for-sale and trading securities (at fair value) issued by these governments. At December 31, 2012, we had no direct or guaranteed credit exposure to
the governments of Greece or Ireland.   

  Our
exposure to European financial institutions at December 31, 2012 included $20.2 billion of credit exposures to European banks, of which $18.7 billion were considered
investment grade based on our internal ratings. Aggregate below investment grade rated credit exposures to European banks were $1.4 billion. Our credit exposures to banks domiciled in the
Euro-Zone countries totaled $8.0 billion at December 31, 2012, of which $4.4 billion were fixed maturity securities. Credit exposures to banks based in the five
countries of the Euro-Zone periphery (Spain, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Portugal) totaled $993 million, of which $707 million were fixed maturity securities. These credit
exposures were primarily to the largest banks in Spain and Italy. Credit exposures to banks based in France totaled $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012, of which $833 million were
fixed maturity securities. Our credit exposures were predominantly to the largest banks in these countries.   

  In
addition, our exposure at December 31, 2012 to European financial institutions included $10.5 billion of aggregate credit exposure to non-bank institutions, mostly
insurers and reinsurers, with $7.6 billion, or 73 percent, of credit exposure representing reinsurance recoverable balances. Reinsurance recoverables were primarily to highly rated
reinsurers based in Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Germany. $1.3 billion of the aggregate credit exposure at December 31, 2012 to non-banks was fixed maturity
securities, of which 94 percent were considered investment grade based on our internal ratings.   

  Of
the $19.3 billion of non-financial institution corporate exposure to Euro-Zone countries at December 31, 2012, 93 percent was to fixed maturity
securities ($11.0 billion) and insurance-related products ($7.0 billion), with the majority of the insurance exposures being captive fronting programs ($3.0 billion), trade credit
insurance ($1.9 billion), and surety bonds ($1.5 billion). France's exposure of $6.6 billion at December 31, 2012 represented the largest single non-financial
corporate country exposure within the Euro-Zone, of which $2.6 billion were fixed maturity securities. Approximately two-thirds of the French exposures were to issuers
in the utilities, oil and gas, and telecommunications industries. Euro-Zone periphery non-financial institution corporate exposures ($5.0 billion) at December 31,
2012 were heavily weighted towards large multinational corporations or issuers in relatively stable industries, such as regulated utilities (25 percent), telecommunications (17 percent),
and oil and gas (13 percent).   

  Of
the $6.1 billion at December 31, 2012 of United Kingdom and European structured product exposures (largely consisting of residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and
other asset-backed securities), United Kingdom structured products accounted for 69 percent, while the Netherlands and Germany comprised 23 percent and 2 percent, respectively.
Structured product exposures to the Euro-Zone periphery accounted for 4 percent of the total. Approximately 89 percent of the United Kingdom and European structured products
exposures were rated A or better at December 31, 2012 based on external rating agency ratings.   

  In
addition, we had commercial real estate-related net equity investments in Europe totaling $497 million at December 31, 2012 and related unfunded commitments of $105 million.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
160  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents our aggregate United Kingdom and European credit exposures (excluding ILFC) by product type:   

(a)     Fixed
maturity securities primarily includes available-for-sale and trading securities reported at fair value of $41.4 billion ($41.4 billion
amortized cost), and $3.4 billion ($3.4 billion amortized cost), respectively.   

  (b)     Cash
and short-term investments include bank deposit placements ($3.8 billion), collateral posted to counterparties against structured products
($1.9 billion), securities purchased under agreements to resell ($187 million), and operating accounts ($115 million).   

(c)     Insurance
Credit Exposures primarily consist of captive fronting management programs ($10.7 billion), trade credit insurance ($6.2 billion), and surety bonds
($2.1 billion) and commercial letters of credit supporting insurance credit exposures ($794 million).   

  (d)     Other
primarily consists of derivative transactions reported at fair value.   

At December 31, 2012, approximately 86 percent of fixed maturity securities in the United Kingdom and European exposures were considered
investment grade based on our internal ratings. European financial institution fixed maturity securities exposure was $10.2 billion, of which $1.1 billion were covered bonds (debt
securities secured by a pool of financial assets sufficient to cover any bondholder claims and that have full recourse to the issuing bank). $4.4 billion of fixed maturity securities were
issued by banks domiciled in the Euro-Zone countries. Our subordinated debt holdings and Tier 1 and preference share securities in these banks totaled $901 million and
$312 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012. These exposures were predominantly to the largest banks in those countries.   

Other Credit Concentrations

We have a risk concentration in the U.S. municipal sector, primarily through the investment portfolios of our insurance companies. A majority of these securities were held
in available-for-sale portfolios of our domestic property and casualty insurance companies. See Investments   Available for Sale Investments herein for
further details. We had $464 million of additional exposure to the municipal sector outside of our insurance company portfolios at December 31, 2012, compared to $892 million at
December 31, 2011. These exposures consisted of derivatives and trading securities (at fair value), and exposure related to other insurance and financial services operations.   

  We
have a risk concentration in the residential mortgage sector in the form of non-agency RMBS, CDO of RMBS as well as our mortgage guaranty insurance business. See
Investments   Available for Sale Investments herein for further details on RMBS and CDO investments. The net risk-in-force for UGC was $33.6 billion
at December 31, 2012, of which exposure in the United States was $30.4 billion.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
161  

Table of Contents   

  We
also have a risk concentration in the commercial real estate sector in the form of non-agency CMBS, CDO of CMBS as well as commercial mortgage whole loans. See
Investments   Available for Sale Investments and Investments   Commercial Mortgage Loans herein for further details.   

We
also monitor our aggregate cross-border exposures by country and region. Cross-border exposure is defined as an underlying risk that is taken within a country or jurisdiction other than the country
or jurisdiction in which an AIG business unit taking the risk is domiciled. These cross-border exposures include both aggregated cross-border credit exposures to unrelated third parties and
cross-border investments in our own international subsidiaries. Five countries had cross-border exposures in excess of 10 percent of Total equity at December 31, 2012 compared to six
countries at December 31, 2011. Based on our internal risk ratings, at December 31, 2012, three countries were rated AAA and two were rated AA. The two largest cross-border exposures
were to the United Kingdom and Bermuda.   

  We
regularly review concentration reports in the categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk ratings and credit spreads. We periodically adjust limits and review exposures for risk
mitigation to provide reasonable assurance that we do not incur excessive levels of credit risk and that our credit risk profile is properly calibrated across business units.   

Market Risk Management

Market risk is defined as the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, equity
and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility. Market risk includes credit spread risk, the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in credit spreads of securities or
counterparties.  

  We
are exposed to market risks, primarily within our insurance and capital markets businesses. In our insurance operations, market risk results primarily from potential mismatches in our
asset-liability exposures, rather than speculative positioning. Specifically, our life insurance and retirement businesses collect premiums or deposits from policyholders and invest the proceeds in
predominantly long-term, fixed maturity securities. We earn a spread between the asset yield and the cost payable to policyholders. We manage the business so that the cash flows from
invested assets are sufficient to meet policyholder obligations when they become due, without the need to sell assets prematurely into a potentially distressed market. In periods of severe market
volatility, depressed and illiquid fair values on otherwise performing investments diminish shareholders' equity even without actual credit event related losses.   

   Our market exposures can be categorized as follows:    

Benchmark interest rates.     Benchmark interest rates are also
known as risk-free interest rates and are associated with either the government/treasury yield curve or the swap curve. The fair value of our significant fixed maturity securities
portfolio changes as benchmark interest rates change.   

Credit spread or risk premium.     Credit spread risk is the
potential for loss due to a change in an instrument's risk premium or yield relative to that of a comparable duration, default-free instrument.   

Equity and alternative investment prices.     We are exposed to
equity and alternative investment prices affecting a variety of instruments. These include direct investments in common stock and mutual funds, minimum benefit guarantees embedded in the structure of
certain variable annuity and variable life insurance products and other equity-like investments, such as hedge funds and private equity funds, private equity investments, commercial real
estate and real estate funds.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
162  

Table of Contents   

Foreign currency exchange rates.     We are a globally
diversified enterprise with significant income, assets and liabilities denominated in, and significant capital deployed in, a variety of currencies.    

We use a number of measures and approaches to measure and quantify our market risk exposure, including:   

Duration/key rate duration.     Duration is the measure of the sensitivities of a fixed-income instrument to the changes in the benchmark yield curve. Key rate duration
 measures sensitivities to the movement at a given term point on the yield curve.  

Scenario analysis.     Scenario analysis uses historical, hypothetical, or forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios to assess and report exposures. Examples of hypothetical
 scenarios include a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve or a 10 percent immediate and simultaneous decrease in world-wide equity markets.  

Stress testing.     Stress testing is a special form of scenario analysis in which the scenarios are designed to lead to a material adverse outcome. Examples of such scenarios
 include the stock market crash of October 1987 or the widening of yields or spread of RMBS or CMBS during 2008.  

VaR.     VaR is a summary statistical measure that uses the estimated volatility and correlation of market factors, and a management-determined level of confidence, to
 estimate how frequently a portfolio of risk exposures could be expected to lose at least a specified amount.  

Insurance Operations Portfolio Sensitivities

The following table provides estimates of our sensitivity to changes in yield curves, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates:   

Exposures to yield curve movements include fixed maturity securities, loans, finance receivables and short-term investments, but exclude
consolidated separate account assets. Total yield-sensitive assets decreased 6.2 percent or approximately $20.4 billion compared to 2011, primarily due to a net decrease in fixed income
securities and other fixed assets of $15.6 billion, and a decrease in cash equivalents of $4.8 billion.   

  Exposures
to equity and alternative investment prices include investments in common stock, preferred stocks, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, commercial real estate and real estate
funds, but exclude consolidated separate account assets. Total exposure in these areas decreased 30.3 percent or approximately $11.8 billion in 2012 compared to 2011. This was primarily
due to a decrease of $12.4 billion related to our sale of AIA equity securities as well as decreases in mutual fund values of $129 million and other equity investments of
$18 million. The decrease was partially offset by increases in other common equity securities of $125 million, partnership values of $197 million and real estate investments of
$397 million.   

  Exposures
to foreign currency exchange rates reflect our consolidated non-U.S. dollar net capital investments on a GAAP basis. Foreign currency exchange rates net exposure increased
53.7 percent or $3.2 billion in 2012 compared to 2011. This was primarily due to an increase in British pound exposure of $1.7 billion as a result of AIG Europe's foreign currency
exchange hedging and investment strategy, an increase in market value of fixed maturity securities of $188 million as well as unrealized investment appreciation and positive results from AIG
Europe Ltd operations of $99 million. Other increases included: changes in Canadian-dollar denominated unearned premium reserves of   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
163  

Table of Contents   

  $378 million
and a net increase of Canadian-dollar exposure of $92 million due to unrealized investment appreciation and positive results from operations; Euro exposure as a result of a
reduction in euro-denominated debt outstanding of $231 million, additional purchases of the AIRE real estate investment vehicle of $109 million as well as unrealized
investment appreciation and positive results from operations at AIG Europe SA of $147 million; and a net increase across currencies of $258 million.   

For
illustrative purposes, we modeled our sensitivities based on a 100 basis point increase in yield curves, a 20 percent decline in equities and alternative assets, and a 10 percent
depreciation of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. This should not be taken as a prediction, but only as a demonstration of the potential effects of such events.   

  The
sensitivity factors utilized for 2012 and presented above were selected based on historical data from 1992 to 2012, as follows (see the table
below):  

a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve is consistent with a one standard deviation movement of the benchmark
ten-year treasury yield;   
           a 20 percent drop for equity and alternative investments is broadly consistent with a one standard deviation
movement in the S P 500; and   
           a 10 percent depreciation of foreign currency exchange rates is consistent with a one standard deviation movement
in the U.S. dollar (USD)/Japanese Yen (JPY) exchange rate.    

Liquidity Risk Management

Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that our financial condition will be adversely affected by the inability or perceived
inability to meet our short-term cash, collateral or other financial obligations.  

  The
failure to appropriately manage liquidity risk can result in reduced operating flexibility, increased costs, and reputational harm. Because liquidity is critically important, our liquidity
governance includes a number of liquidity and funding policies and monitoring tools to address both AIG-specific, broader industry and market related liquidity events.   

Sources
of Liquidity risk can include, but are not limited to:  

financial market movements   significant changes in interest rates can provide incentives for
policyholders to surrender their policies. Changes in markets can impact collateral posting requirements or create difficulty to liquidate assets at reasonable values to meet liquidity needs due to
unfavorable market conditions, inadequate market depth, or other investors seeking to sell the same or similar assets;   
           potential reputational events or credit downgrade   changes can have an impact on policyholder
cancellations and withdrawals or impact collateral posting requirements; and   
           catastrophic events, including natural and man-made disasters, can increase policyholder claims    

  The
principal objective of ERM's liquidity risk framework is to protect AIG's liquidity position and identify a diversity of funding sources available to meet actual and contingent liabilities during
both normal and stress periods.   

We have structured our consolidated risk target to maintain a minimum liquidity
buffer.       AIG Parent liquidity risk tolerance levels are established for base and stress scenarios over a
two-year time horizon designed to ensure that funding needs are met under varying market conditions. If we project that we will breach the tolerance, we will assess and determine the
appropriate liquidity management actions. However, the market conditions in effect at that time may not permit us to achieve an increase in liquidity sources or a reduction in liquidity requirements.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
164  

Table of Contents   

  Additionally,
each business unit is responsible for managing liquidity within a framework designed for the measurement and monitoring of liquidity risks inherent to the business. Current cash and
liquidity positions are reviewed for changes and against minimum liquidity levels. Future cash inflows and outflows are tracked through cash flow forecasting. If the business unit projects a breach of
the minimum liquidity levels, the amount of required liquidity resources will be identified and we will determine any actions to be taken. Business unit level key indicators are assessed to provide
advance warning of potential liquidity risks.   

Operational Risk Management

Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or
from external events. Operational risk includes legal risk and reputational harm.  

  Operational
risk is inherent in each of our business units and corporate functions. It may extend beyond financial losses, including errors, fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate
behavior of employees, or vendors that do not perform in accordance with agreed upon terms.   

Our
Operational Risk Management (ORM) function, which supports AIG's ORC has the responsibility to provide an aggregate view of our operational risk profile. AIG ORM oversees our Operational Risk
policy and framework, which includes risk identification, measurement, monitoring and reporting.   

  Each
Business Unit is primarily responsible for managing its operational risks and implementing the components of the operational risk management program. In addition, certain control functions have
been assigned accountability for enterprise-wide risk management oversight for their respective areas. These control functions include: Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), Business Continuity Management
(BCM), Information Technology Security Risk, Compliance, and Vendor Management. Senior business operational risk executives report to their respective business unit chief risk officer and to the Head
of our ORM. This reporting structure enables a close alignment with the businesses while ensuring consistent implementation of operational risk management practices.   

A strong operational risk management program facilitates the identification and mitigation of operational risk issues. In order to accomplish this, our operational risk management program is designed
 to:   

pro-actively address
potential operational risk issues;  

create transparency at all
levels of the organization; and  

assign clear ownership and
accountability for addressing identified issues.  

As
part of the ORM framework, we use a risk and control self assessment (RCSA) process to identify key operational risks and evaluate the effectiveness of existing controls to mitigate those risks.
Corrective action plans are developed to address identified issues. Businesses are accountable for tracking and resolving these issues. A standard RCSA approach is also followed firm-wide
for certain key risk processes (for example, SOX, IT Security Risk, Compliance, Business Continuity Management and Vendor Management).   

Operational
risk management reporting to senior management and operational risk governance committees provides awareness of operational risk exposures, identifies key risks and facilitates management
decision making. Reporting includes RCSA information such as operational risk events, self-assessment results and the status of issue resolution to senior management.   

Insurance Operations Risks

Except as described above, we manage our business risk oversight activities through our insurance
operations.  

  Our
insurance businesses are conducted on a global basis and expose us to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. We manage these risks throughout the organization, both centrally and
locally, through a number of procedures:  

pre-launch approval of product design, development and distribution;    
           underwriting approval processes and authorities;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
165  

Table of Contents   

exposure limits with ongoing monitoring;   
           modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product
group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events);   
           compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency targets;   
           use of reinsurance, both internal and third-party; and   
           review and establishment of reserves.    

  We
closely manage insurance risk by monitoring and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and
the premiums we charge for taking on the risk. We analyze concentrations of risk using various modeling techniques, including both probability distributions (stochastic) and single-point estimates
(deterministic) approaches.   

   Our major categories of insurance risks are:   

Property and Casualty (AIG Property Casualty)      risks
covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, accident and health, aviation and management liability. We manage risks in the general insurance segment through aggregations and limitations of
concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, geography, industry and legal entity.   

Domestic Life Insurance   Retirement Service (AIG Life and
Retirement)      risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover
contract liabilities in the retirement savings-oriented products. We manage risks through product design, sound medical underwriting, external traditional reinsurance programs and external catastrophe
reinsurance programs.   

Mortgage Guaranty (United Guaranty Corporation)      We
manage risks in the mortgage insurance business through geographic location of the insured properties, the relative economic conditions in the local housing markets, credit attributes of the
borrowers, and the loan amount relative to the value of the respective collateral.    

We purchase reinsurance for our insurance
operations.         Reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital planning. We may
purchase reinsurance on a pooled basis. Pooling of our reinsurance risks enables us to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships
and manage global catastrophe risks, both for AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement.   

AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks

A primary goal in managing our AIG Property Casualty operations is to achieve an acceptable return on equity. To achieve this goal, we must be disciplined in risk selection,
premium adequacy, and appropriate terms and conditions to cover the risk accepted.   

  We
manage insurance risks through risk review and selection processes, exposure limitations, exclusions, deductibles, self-insured retentions, coverage limits and reinsurance. This
management is supported by sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis to help determine overall adequacy of provisions for insurance. Underwriting practices and
pricing procedures incorporate historical experience, current regulation and judicial decisions as well as proposed or anticipated regulatory changes.   

  For
AIG Property Casualty, insurance risks primarily emanate from the following:  

Unpaid Loss and Loss Expense Reserves      The potential
inadequacy of the liabilities we establish for unpaid losses and loss expenses is a key risk faced by AIG Property Casualty. There is significant uncertainty in factors that may drive the ultimate
development of losses compared to the estimates of losses and loss expenses. We manage this uncertainty through internal controls and oversight of the loss reserve setting process, as well as reviews
by external experts. See Item 1 Business   A review of Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense herein for further details.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
166  

Table of Contents   

Underwriting      The potential inadequacy of premium
charged for risks underwritten in our portfolios can impact AIG Property Casualty's ability to achieve an underwriting profit. We develop pricing based on our estimates of losses and expenses, but
factors such as market pressures and the inherent uncertainty and complexity in estimating losses may result in premiums that are inadequate to generate underwriting profit.    

Catastrophe Exposure      Our business is exposed to
various catastrophic events in which multiple losses can occur and affect multiple lines of business in any calendar year. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes,
have the potential to adversely affect our operating results. Other risks, such as a man-made catastrophes or pandemic disease, could also adversely affect our business and operating
results to the extent they are covered by our insurance products.   

Reinsurance      Since we use reinsurance to limit our
losses, we are exposed to risks associated with reinsurance including the unrecoverability of expected payments from reinsurers either due to an inability or unwillingness to pay, contracts do not
respond as we intended, or that actual reinsurance coverage is different than anticipated.    

Catastrophe Exposures     

  To control catastrophe exposure, we use a combination of techniques, including setting key business unit limits based on an aggregate PML, monitoring
and modeling accumulated exposures, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance to supplement our other reinsurance protections. The majority of policies exposed to catastrophic events are
one-year contracts allowing us to quickly adjust our exposure to catastrophic events if climate changes or other events increase the frequency or severity of catastrophes.   

We
use industry recognized models and other tools to evaluate catastrophic events and assess the probability and magnitude of such events. We periodically monitor the exposure risks of our worldwide
AIG Property Casualty operations and adjust the models accordingly.   

  The
following is an overview of modeled losses for AIG Property Casualty exposure associated with the more significant natural perils. The modeled results assume that all reinsurers fulfill their
obligations to AIG in accordance with their terms.   

  AIG
Property Casualty utilizes industry recognized catastrophe models. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled losses
may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not reflect our maximum exposures to these events. It is highly likely that our losses will
vary, perhaps significantly, from these estimates.   

  The
modeled results provided in the table below were based on the Aggregate Exceedance Probability (AEP) losses which represent total property, workers' compensation, and A H losses that may occur in
any single year from one or more natural events. The values provided were based on 100-year return period losses, which have a one percent likelihood of being exceeded in any single year.
The A H data include exposures for United States and Japan earthquakes. These exposures represent the largest share of A H exposures to earthquakes. A H losses were modeled using April 2010 data. The
property exposures were modeled with data as of September 2012. All reinsurance program structures, domestic and international, reflect the reinsurance programs in place as of January 1, 2013.
Losses include loss adjustment expenses and the net values include reinstatement premiums.   

*         Includes
hurricanes, typhoons and European windstorms.   

Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses decreased $926 million and $2.3 billion, respectively, compared to 2011, while net losses
decreased $335 million and $1.7 billion, respectively, compared to 2011. Changes in both gross and net losses are primarily due to underwriting decisions to actively manage catastrophe
exposure in the United States.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
167  

Table of Contents   

  In
addition to the aggregate return period loss, we evaluate potential single event earthquake and hurricane losses. The single events utilized are a subset of potential events identified and utilized
by Lloyd's (see    Lloyd's Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario Specifications, January 2013   ) and referred to as Realistic Disaster Scenarios (RDS).   

  The
purpose of this type of analysis is to provide a frame of reference and context for the model results. The specific events used for this analysis do not necessarily represent the worst case loss
that we could incur from this type of an event in these regions. The losses associated with the RDS are included in the following table.   

Single-event modeled property and workers' compensation losses and loss adjustment expenses to AIG's worldwide portfolio of risk for key geographic areas are shown
below.   

(a)     After
the application of policy limits and deductibles.   

  (b)     Calculated
using the AIG reinsurance program in effect as at January 1, 2013, including reinstatement premiums. AIG's reinsurance program includes industry loss warranty (ILW)
contracts under which there is basis risk between AIG's losses and the total industry loss. The net of reinsurance amount in the table above includes a positive impact from these ILWs, which may not
be indicative of actual experience.   

We also monitor key international property risks utilizing industry recognized natural catastrophe models. Based on the occurrence exceedance probabilities, the
100-year return period loss for Japanese Earthquake is $1.1 billion gross and $885 million net; the 100-year return period loss for European Windstorm is
$575 million gross and $503 million net; and the 100-year return period loss for Japanese Typhoon is $1.7 billion gross and $842 million net.   

ACTUAL
RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO VARY, PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS. THE OCCURRENCE OF ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Reserves and Exposures for additional information.   

Terrorism   

  We actively monitor terrorism risk and strive to control exposure to loss from terrorist attack by limiting the aggregate accumulation insurance that is underwritten in
defined target locations. We use modeling to provide projections of Probable Maximum Loss (PML) by target location based upon the actual exposures of our policyholders.   

We
also share our exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA). TRIPRA covers terrorist attacks in the United States only and excludes,
as specified by applicable law, certain commercial lines of business as well as A H, group life and personal lines. In 2012 and beginning January 1, 2013, our deductible under TRIPRA was
approximately $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, with a 15 percent coinsurance retention of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible for each period.   

  We
offer terrorism coverage in many other countries through various insurance products and participate in country terrorism pools when applicable. International terrorism exposure is managed through
active aggregation control and targeted reinsurance purchases for lines of business such as commercial property, political risk, aviation and A H.   

Reinsurance Recoverables     

  AIG's reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of:  

Paid losses recoverable   balances due from reinsurers for losses and loss expenses paid by our
subsidiaries and billed, but not yet collected.   
           Ceded loss reserves   ultimate ceded reserves for losses and loss expenses, including reserves for
claims reported but not yet paid and estimates for IBNR.   
           Ceded reserves for unearned premiums.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
168  

Table of Contents    

  At December 31, 2012, total reinsurance recoverable assets were $25.6 billion. These assets include general reinsurance paid losses recoverable of
$1.3 billion, ceded loss reserves of $19.2 billion including reserves for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, and ceded reserves for unearned premiums of $3.6 billion, as
well as life reinsurance recoverables of $1.5 billion. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses
over multiple years. These methods are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income. We believe that the amount recorded for ceded loss reserves at
December 31, 2012 reflect a reasonable estimate of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may, however, differ from the reserves currently ceded.   

  The
Reinsurance Credit Department (RCD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial strength and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RCD monitors
both the financial condition of reinsurers as well as the total reinsurance recoverable ceded to reinsurers, and set limits with regard to the amount and type or exposure we are willing to take with
reinsurers. As part of these assessments, we attempt to identify whether a reinsurer is appropriately licensed, assess its financial capacity and liquidity; and evaluate the local economic and
financial environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RCD reviews the nature of the risks ceded and the need for measures, including collateral to mitigate credit risk. For example, in our
treaty reinsurance contracts, we frequently include provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral or use other measures to reduce exposure when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, we
limit our unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the
use of credit triggers such as insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in regulatory capital, or relevant risk-based capital (RBC) ratios fall below certain levels. We also
set maximum limits for reinsurance recoverable exposure, which in some cases is the recoverable amount plus an estimate of the maximum potential exposure from unexpected events for a reinsurer. In
addition, credit executives within ERM review reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approve reinsurer credit limits above specified levels. Finally, even where we conclude that uncollateralized
credit risk is acceptable, we require collateral from active reinsurance counterparties where it is necessary for our subsidiaries to recognize the reinsurance recoverable assets for statutory
accounting purposes. At December 31, 2012, we held $8.6 billion of collateral, in the form of funds withheld, securities in reinsurance trust accounts and/or irrevocable letters of
credit, in support of reinsurance recoverable assets from unaffiliated reinsurers. We believe that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is
our business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurance contract.   

   The following table presents information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five percent of our total reinsurance recoverable assets:   

(a)     The
financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of February 6, 2013.   

  (b)     Total
reinsurance assets include both Property Casualty and Life and Retirement reinsurance recoverable.   

  (c)     Excludes
collateral held in excess of applicable treaty balances.   

  (d)     Includes
$1.6 billion recoverable under the 2011 transaction pursuant to which a large portion of AIG Property Casualty's net domestic asbestos liabilities were transferred to
NICO. Does not include reinsurance assets ceded to other reinsurers for which NICO has assumed the collection risk. See Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses  
Transfer of Domestic Asbestos Liabilities.   

  The estimation of reinsurance recoverables involves a significant amount of judgment, particularly for asbestos exposures, due to their long-tail
nature. We assess the collectability of its reinsurance recoverable balances through detailed reviews of the underlying nature of the reinsurance balance, including:  

paid and unpaid recoverable;   
           whether the balance is in dispute or a legal collection status;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
169  

Table of Contents   

whether the reinsurer is financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to
formal or informal regulatory restriction);   
           whether collateral and collateral arrangements exist; and  
           the credit quality of the underlying reinsurer.    

  We
record adjustments to reflect the results of the detailed review through an allowance for uncollectable reinsurance. At December 31, 2012, the allowance for estimated unrecoverable
reinsurance was $338 million. At December 31, 2012, we had no significant general reinsurance recoverables due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled. In the current
environment of weaker economic conditions and strained financial markets, certain reinsurers are reporting losses and could be subject to rating downgrades. Our reinsurance recoverable exposures are
primarily to the regulated subsidiaries of such companies which are subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements. The RCD, in conjunction with the credit executives within ERM, reviews these
developments, monitors compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and will seek to use other appropriate means to mitigate any material risks arising from these
developments. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on reinsurance.   

AIG Life and Retirement Key Insurance Risks

For AIG Life and Retirement, the primary risks are the following:  

Pricing risk      represents the potential exposure to
loss if actual policy experience emerges adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing. These assumptions include investment results, mortality, morbidity, surrenders, other
observed policyholder behavior and expenses;   

Investment risk      represents the exposure to loss if
the cash flows from the invested assets are less than required to meet the obligations of the expected policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on investments;    

Interest rate risk      represents the exposure to loss
due to the sensitivity of the liabilities and assets to changes in interest rates; and  

Equity market risk      represents the potential exposure
to higher claim costs for guaranteed benefits associated with variable annuities and the potential reduction in expected fee revenue.    

  AIG
Life and Retirement manages these risks through product design, exposure limitations and active management of the relationships between assets and liabilities. The emergence of significant adverse
experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit reserves which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for a particular period. For a further
discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Business and Operations.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to $15 million or less of coverage. In certain circumstances, this is
achieved by using yearly renewable term reinsurance. For the AIG Life and Retirement companies, the reinsurance programs provide risk mitigation per life for individuals and group and for catastrophic
risk events.   

United Guaranty Corporation Key Insurance Risks

For United Guaranty Corporation (UGC), risks emanate primarily from the following:  

Residential Housing Market risk      represents the
potential exposure to loss due to borrower default on a first-lien residential mortgage; the primary drivers of this risk are home price depreciation, changes in the unemployment rate,
changes in mortgage rates, and a borrower's willingness to pay.  
            Pricing risk      represents the potential exposure to
loss if actual policy experience emerges adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing. This may be related to adverse economic conditions, prepayment of policies, investment
results, and expenses;    

  UGC
manages the quality of the loans it insures through use of a proprietary risk quality index. UGC uses this index to determine an insurability threshold as well as to manage the risk distribution
of its new business. Along with traditional mortgage underwriting variables, UGC's risk-based pricing model uses rating factors such as geography and the quality of a lender's origination
process to establish premium rates.   

  UGC's
risk appetite statement establishes various concentration limits on the business UGC insures (for example, geography), and defines underwriting characteristics for which UGC will not insure
loans.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
170  

Table of Contents   

Other Operations

Global Capital Markets     

  GCM actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic losses, and in doing so, GCM must continually manage a variety of exposures including
credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risks. The senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for GCM's operations. Our senior management has
established various oversight committees to regularly monitor various financial market, operational and credit risks related to GCM's operations. The senior management of GCM reports the results of
its operations to and reviews future strategies with AIG's senior management.   

GCM Derivative Transactions     

  A counterparty may default on any obligation to us, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit and/or carrying
trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or decrease during the
life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this risk, GCM's credit department operates within the guidelines set by the credit function within
ERM. Transactions that fall outside these pre-established guidelines require the specific approval of the ERM. It is also AIG's policy to record credit valuation adjustments for potential
counterparty default when necessary.   

  In
addition, GCM utilizes various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives, margin agreements and subordination to reduce the
credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative transactions. GCM requires credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness
of the counterparties, and the transaction's size and maturity. Furthermore, GCM generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit of set-off and close-out netting
provisions. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, GCM can set off its receivables from a counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty
arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated
fair values.   

  The
fair value of GCM's interest rate, currency, credit, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts reported in Derivative assets, at fair
value, was approximately $3.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2011. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with
the respective master netting agreements.   

  GCM
evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating policies of
the ERM. In addition, GCM's credit approval process involves pre-set counterparty and country credit exposure limits subject to approval by the ERM and, for particularly credit-intensive
transactions, requires approval from the ERM.   

   The following table presents the fair value of GCM's derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit rating:   

See Critical Accounting Estimates below and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion related to derivative
transactions.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
171  

Table of Contents   

Critical Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that   often involve a significant degree of judgment.

The accounting policies that we believe are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, which are
critical accounting estimates, are related to the determination of:   

classification of ILFC as held for
sale;  

insurance
liabilities, including property and casualty and mortgage guaranty unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses and future policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts;  

income tax
assets and liabilities, including recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the predictability of future tax operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;  

recoverability
of assets including reinsurance assets;  

estimated
gross profits for investment-oriented products;  

impairment
charges, including other-than-temporary impairments of financial instruments and goodwill impairments;  

liabilities
for legal contingencies; and  

fair value
measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities.  

See
Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

  These
accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions
used, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.   

The major categories for which assumptions are developed and used to establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted below.   

Classification of ILFC as Held for Sale

We report a business as held for sale when management has approved or received approval to sell the business and is committed to a formal plan, the business is available for
immediate sale, the business is being actively marketed, the sale is anticipated to occur during the next 12 months, which may require significant judgment, and certain other specified criteria
are met. A business classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated
fair value, a loss is recognized.   

  On
December 9, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement with Jumbo Acquisition Limited for the sale of 80.1 percent of the common stock of ILFC for approximately $4.23 billion
in cash. Jumbo Acquisition Limited may elect to purchase an additional 9.9 percent of the common stock of ILFC for $522.5 million (the Option) by the later of March 15, 2013 and
ten days after approval of the ILFC Transaction and the Option by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The transaction is subject to required regulatory approvals and other
customary closing conditions. We determined ILFC met the criteria at December 31, 2012 for held for sale accounting and, consequently, we recorded a $4.4 billion after tax loss for the
year ended December 31, 2012, which is reported in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
172  

Table of Contents   

Recoverability of Net Deferred Tax Asset

The evaluation of the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a
conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the net deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can
be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed.   

We
take a number of factors into account in order to reliably estimate future taxable income, so that we can determine the extent of our ability to realize net operating losses (NOLs), foreign tax
credits (FTCs) and nonlife capital loss carryforwards. These factors include forecasts of future income for each of our businesses, actual and planned business and operational changes, which includes
assumptions about future macroeconomic and AIG-specific conditions and events. We also subject the forecasts to stresses of key assumptions and evaluate the effect on tax attribute
utilization. We also apply stresses to our assumptions about the effectiveness of relevant prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Our income forecasts, coupled with our tax planning strategies
and stressed scenarios, all resulted in sufficient taxable income to achieve realization of the tax attributes (other than life-insurance-business capital loss carryforwards) prior to
their expiration.   

  For
additional discussion of the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

U.S. Income Taxes on Earnings of Certain Foreign Subsidiaries

The U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to determining the amount of income taxes related to differences between the book carrying values and tax bases of subsidiaries
are complex. Determining the amount also requires significant judgment and reliance on reasonable assumptions and estimates.   

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses (AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty)

The estimate of Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses consists of several key judgments:  

the determination of the actuarial models used as the basis for these estimates;    
           the relative weights given to these models by class;   
           the underlying assumptions used in these models; and  
           the determination of the appropriate groupings of similar classes and, in some cases, the segmentation of dissimilar
claims within a class.    

  We
use numerous assumptions in determining the best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of business and accident year.
Because actual experience can differ from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in the development of loss reserves. This is particularly true for
long-tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty, asbestos, D O, and primary or excess workers' compensation.   

  All
of our methods to calculate net reserves include assumptions about estimated reinsurance recoveries and their collectability. Reinsurance collectability is evaluated independently of the reserving
process and appropriate allowances for uncollectible reinsurance are established.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
173  

Table of Contents   

In some of our estimation processes we rely on the claims department estimates of our case reserves as an input to our best estimate of the ultimate loss cost.   

Overview of Loss Reserving Process and Methods  

AIG Property Casualty loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. Short-tail classes of business consist principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes.
Long-tail casualty classes of business include excess and umbrella liability, D O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers' compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes.

Short-Tail Reserves     

For operations writing short-tail coverages,    such as property
coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for the outstanding
exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required for a class of property business might be expected to approximate
20 percent of the latest year's earned premiums. This level of reserve would generally be maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current quarter. The 20 percent factor
would be adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular class of business. For some classes, a loss
development factor method may be used.   

Long-Tail Reserves     

Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long-tail casualty classes of business    is a complex process and
 depends on a number of factors, including the class and volume of business, as well as estimates of the reinsurance recoverable. Experience in the more recent accident years shows limited statistical credibility in reported net losses on long-tail
 casualty classes of business. That is because a relatively low proportion of net incurred losses represent reported claims and expenses, and an even smaller percentage represent net losses paid. Therefore, IBNR constitutes a relatively high
 proportion of net losses.  

To estimate net losses for long-tail casualty classes of business, we use a variety of actuarial methods and
 assumptions.   

To estimate net losses for long-tail casualty classes of business,     we use a variety of actuarial methods and assumptions and other analytical techniques as described below. A
detailed reserve review is generally
performed at least once per year to allow for comprehensive actuarial evaluation and collaboration with claims, underwriting, business unit management, risk management and senior management.   

We generally make a number of actuarial assumptions in the review of reserves for each class of
business.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
174  

Table of Contents   

For longer-tail classes of business, we generally make actuarial assumptions with respect to the following:

Loss cost trend factors    which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratios for prior accident years.  

Expected loss ratios    for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2012 for the year-end 2012 loss reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to
 the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the loss trend and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low-frequency,
 high-severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years.  

Loss development factors    which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior
 accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years.  

We record quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of AIG Property Casualty's classes of business.     The overall change in our loss reserves is based on the sum of the changes for
all classes of business. For most long-tail classes of
business, the quarterly loss reserve changes are based on the estimated current loss ratio for each class of coverage less any amounts paid. Also, any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior
accident years deemed to be necessary based on the results of our latest reserve studies or large loss analysis, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve for the current quarter.   

Details of the Loss Reserving Process     

The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class of business is based on a variety of factors.     These include considerations such as: prior accident year and policy
 year loss ratios; rate changes; and changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of
business. Other considerations include actual and anticipated changes in external factors such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each class of
business is intended to represent our best estimate of the current loss ratio after reflecting all of the relevant factors. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss ratios are
reviewed to determine if the loss ratios remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in coverage,
reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in other factors that may affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio
for current business is changed to reflect the revised assumptions.   

We conduct a comprehensive loss reserve review at least annually for each AIG Property Casualty subsidiary and class of
business.    The reserve analysis for each class of business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most familiar with that class of business.
In this process, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also
required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial methods for each business class. Additionally, they must determine the segmentation of data that will enable the most suitable test of
reserve adequacy. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews an actuarial central estimate of the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these central estimates for each class of business
provides an overall actuarial central estimate of the loss reserve for that class.   

  In 2012,
the third party actuarial reviews covered the majority of reserves held for our US Commercial long-tail classes of business, the majority of our US Consumer classes of
business and included several material international Commercial and Consumer classes of business. In addition we consulted with third party environmental litigation and engineering specialists, third
party toxic tort claims professionals, third party clinical and public health specialists, third party workers' compensation claims adjusters and third party actuarial advisors to corroborate our
conclusions.   

  In 2011
we significantly expanded the scope of our 2010 third-party actuarial reviews to cover a larger number of U.S. and international classes of business from the more complex
reserves of long-tail classes of business. In 2010,   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
175  

Table of Contents   

third-party actuarial reserve reviews were generally limited to certain U.S. long-tail lines of business and were concentrated in the fourth quarter
of 2010. These detailed reviews are conducted for each class of business for each subsidiary, and consist of hundreds of individual analyses.   

In determining the actual carried reserves, we consider both the internal actuarial central estimate and numerous other
internal and external factors, including:   

an assessment of economic
conditions;  

changes in the
legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment;  

changes in
medical cost trends (inflation, intensity and utilization of medical services)  

underlying
policy pricing, terms and conditions including attachment points and policy limits;  

claims
handling processes and enhancements; and  

third-party
actuarial reviews that are periodically performed for key classes of business.  

Loss
reserve development can also be affected by commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements.   

Actuarial and Other Methods for Major Classes of Business  

In testing the reserves for each class of business,    our actuaries
determine the most appropriate actuarial methods. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated with the class of business, such as the frequency or
severity of the claims. Other factors considered include the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class, and the
applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. For example, we write
many unique subclasses of professional liability. For pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subclass individually. However, for purposes of estimating the
loss reserves for professional liability, we believe it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into larger groups to produce a greater degree of credibility in the claims experience. This
determination of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully considered for each class of business. The segmentation and actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected to
produce the most robust estimate of the loss reserves.   

The actuarial methods we use for most long-tail casualty classes of business include loss development methods,
expected loss ratio methods, including "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods described below, and frequency/severity models.    Loss development methods
utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident years. Loss development methods generally are most
appropriate for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the classes have similar development
characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into the same
class as excess casualty exposures. We generally use expected loss ratio methods in cases where the reported loss data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new
classes of business or for long-tail classes at early stages of loss development. Frequency/severity models may be used where sufficient frequency counts are available to apply such
approaches.   

Expected loss ratio
methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of business to determine the loss reserves.    For
example, an expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a class of business would generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million.
Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would result in the indicated loss reserve for this class. Under the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods, the expected loss ratio is applied only to
the expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a long-tail class of business for which only 10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the
accident year, the expected loss ratio would be applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added to determine
the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example above, the expected loss ratio
of 70 percent would be multiplied by   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
176  

Table of Contents   

  90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million resulting in an estimated unreported loss of
$6.3 million. Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the ultimate loss estimate under the "Bornhuetter
Ferguson" method would be $7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" method gives partial
credibility to the actual loss experience to date for the class of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience to date. In the example above,
loss development methods would typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of
the ultimate losses.   

  A
key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or
improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more
weight to the expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged to modify the expected loss ratio to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the
disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if the loss experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could
cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods
such as "Bornhuetter Ferguson" have the advantage of recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year.   

Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for
each claim for each accident year.    Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of
each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable.
Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. In certain
cases, a structural approach may also be used to predict the ultimate loss cost. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and
accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However,
for average severity to be predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the
next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such as personal auto.   

Structural drivers analytics seek to explain the underlying drivers of
frequency/severity.       A structural drivers analysis of frequency/severity is particularly useful for understanding the key
drivers of uncertainty in the ultimate loss cost. For example, for the excess workers' compensation class of business, we have attempted to corroborate our judgment by considering the impact on
severity of the future propensity for deterioration of an injured worker's medical condition, the impact of price inflation on the various categories of medical expense and cost of living adjustments
on indemnity benefits, the impact of injured worker mortality and claim specific settlement and loss mitigation strategies, etc., using the
following:  

Claim by claim reviews to determine the stability and likelihood of settling an injured worker's indemnity and medical
benefits   the claim file review was facilitated by a third party expert experienced in workers' compensation claims;   
           Analysis of the potential for future deterioration in medical condition unlikely to be picked up by a claim file review
and associated with potentially costly medical procedures (i.e., increases in both utilization and intensity of medical care) over the course of the injured worker's lifetime;    
           Analysis of the cost of medical price inflation for each category of medical spend (services and devices) and for cost of
living adjustments in line with statutory requirements;   
           Portfolio specific mortality level and mortality improvement assumptions based on a mortality study conducted for AIG's
primary and excess workers' compensation portfolios and AIG's opinion of future longevity trends for the open reported cases;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
177  

Table of Contents    

Ground-up consideration of the reinsurance recoveries expected for the class of business for reported claims
with extrapolation for unreported claims;  
           The effects of various runoff claims management strategies that have been developed by AIG's newly created
run-off unit.    

Overall, our loss reserve reviews for long-tail classes typically utilize a combination of both loss development
and expected loss ratio methods, supplemented by structural drivers analysis of frequency/severity where available.    Loss development methods are
generally given more weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight where the reported loss
experience is less credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio methods require sufficient information to determine the appropriate expected loss ratio. This information
generally includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss cost
trend or loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the next.   

The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and environmental claims on insurance policies written many years ago is
subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims.    This is due to inconsistent court decisions, as well as judicial interpretations and
legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies or have expanded theories of liability. In addition, reinsurance recoverable balances
relating to asbestos and environmental loss reserves are subject to greater uncertainty due to the underlying age of the claim, underlying legal issues surrounding the nature of the coverage, and
determination of proper policy period. For these reasons, these balances tend to be subject to increased levels of disputes and legal collection activity when actually billed. The insurance industry
as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures.   

We
continue to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste
dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies
written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion for pollution-related damage. An absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. The current
AIG Property Casualty Environmental policies that we specifically price and underwrite for environmental risks on a claims-made basis have been excluded from the analysis.   

The
majority of our exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. The litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts, with
litigation expenses included within the limits of the liability we incur. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a
case-by-case basis.   

Reserve Estimation for Asbestos and Environmental Claims     

  Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a subjective process. Reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be
estimated using conventional reserving techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos and environmental loss estimates
and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management.   

  Various
factors contribute to the complexity and difficulty in determining the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Significant factors that influence the asbestos and
environmental claims estimation process include court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized
as still evolving, and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues
such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the government's refusal to
release parties from liability. Future claims development also will be affected by the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and liability issues.   

  If
the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, resulting deficiencies could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations for an individual reporting period.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
178  

Table of Contents   

  With
respect to known environmental claims, we established over two decades ago a specialized environmental claims unit, which investigates and adjusts all such environmental claims. This unit
evaluates environmental claims utilizing a claim-by-claim approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy terms and exposures. Because each policyholder presents
different liability and coverage issues, we generally evaluate exposure on a policy-by-policy basis, considering a variety of factors such as known facts, current law,
jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques must be supplemented by subjective considerations, including management judgment. Each claim is
reviewed at least semi-annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information.   

  The
environmental claims unit also actively manages and pursues early resolution with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims.
We attempt to mitigate our known long-tail environmental exposures through a combination of proactive claim-resolution techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental
releases, compromise settlements, and, when appropriate, litigation.   

  Known
asbestos claims are managed in a similar manner. Over two decades ago we established a specialized toxic tort claims unit, which historically investigated and adjusted all such asbestos claims.
As part of the above mentioned NICO transaction, effective January 1, 2011, NICO assumed responsibility for claims handling related to the majority of AIG's domestic asbestos liabilities.   

The following is a discussion of actuarial methods applied by major class of business:     

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Excess Casualty   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess casualty classes.       Frequency/severity
methods are generally not used in isolation to determine ultimate loss costs as the vast majority of reported claims do not result in claim payment. (However, frequency/severity methods assist in the regular monitoring of the adequacy of carried
reserves to support incurred but not reported claims). In addition, the average severity varies significantly from accident year to accident year due to large losses which characterize this class of business, as well as changing proportions of claims
which do not result in a claim payment. In order to gain more stability in the projection, the claims amenable to loss development methods are analyzed in two layers: the layer capped at $10 million and the layer above $10 million. The
expected loss ratio for the layer above $10 million is derived from the expected relationship between the layers, reflecting the attachment point and limit by accident year.       In addition, we leverage case reserving based methodologies for complex claims/ latent exposures such as those involving toxic tort and other claims accumulations.  
      
   Expected loss ratio methods are generally used for at least the three latest accident years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss experience is generally reviewed separately for lead
umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile-related claims are generally reviewed separately from non-auto claims, due to the shorter-tail nature of the automobile-related
claims. Claims relating to certain latent exposures such as construction defects or exhaustion of underlying product aggregate limits are reviewed separately due to the unique emergence patterns of losses relating to these claims. The expected loss
ratios used for recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified.       During 2012, we also completed a third party review of certain insureds exposed to a specific class of toxic tort claims. That review considered the prior claims history for each insured account,
 AIG's exposed limits and the insured's role with the specific toxicant reviewed as well as a legal analysis of the exposures presented by these claims.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
179  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for D O and related management liability classes of business.    
  Frequency/severity methods are generally not used in isolation for these classes as the overall losses are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to accident
year and care is required in analyzing these trends by claim type. We also give weight to claim department ground-up projections of ultimate loss on a claim by claim basis as these may be more predictive of ultimate loss values especially for older
accident years.  
     
  Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two most recent accident years, whereas loss development methods are given more weight in more mature accident years. For the year-end 2012 loss reserve review,
claims projections for accident years 2011 and prior were used. These classes of business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low frequency and high severity.  

Workers' Compensation   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for workers' compensation. We segment the data by state and industry class to the extent that meaningful differences are
determined to exist.  
     
  Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers' compensation claims are generally characterized by high frequency, low severity, and relatively consistent
loss development from one accident year to the next. We historically have been a leading writer of workers' compensation, and thus have sufficient volume of claims experience to use development methods. We generally segregate California business from
other business in evaluating workers' compensation reserves. In 2012, we segmented out New York from the other states to reflect its different development pattern and changing percentage of the mix by state. We also revised our assumptions to reflect
changes in our claims management activities. Certain classes of workers' compensation, such as construction, are also evaluated separately. Additionally, we write a number of very large accounts which include workers' compensation coverage. These
accounts are generally priced by our actuaries, and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis may be used to record the initial estimated loss reserves for these accounts.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
180  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Excess Workers' Compensation   

We historically have used a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess workers' compensation. For the year-end 2012 loss reserve review, our actuaries supplemented the methods used
historically by applying a structural drivers approach to inform their judgment of the ultimate loss costs for open reported claims from accident years 2003 and prior (representing approximately 95% of all open reported claims) and used the refined
analysis to inform their judgment of the ultimate loss cost for claims that have not yet been reported using a frequency/severity approach for these accident years.  
     
  Excess workers' compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. The class is highly sensitive to small changes in assumptions   in the rate of medical
inflation or the longevity of injured workers, for example   which can have a significant effect on the ultimate reserve estimate. Claims estimates for this line also are highly sensitive to:                 the assumed future rate of inflation and other economic conditions in the United
States;                   changes in the legal,
regulatory, judicial and social environment;                   the expected impact of recently enacted health care reform on workers' compensation costs;  

underlying policy pricing,
terms and conditions;  

claims settlement trends that
can materially alter the mix and ultimate cost of claims;  

changes in claims reporting
and management practices of insureds and their third-party administrators;  

the cost of new and additional
treatment specialties, such as "pain management";  

the propensity for severely
injured workers' medical conditions to deteriorate in the future;  

changes in injured worker
longevity; and  

territorial experience
differences (across states and within regions in a state).  

Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent accident years. For the year-end 2012 loss reserve review, the structural drivers approach which was applied to open reported claims from
accident years 2003 and prior, was deemed to be most suitable for informing our judgment of the ultimate loss cost for injured workers whose medical conditions had largely stabilized (i.e., at least 9 to 10 years have elapsed since the date
of injury). The reserve for unreported claims is approximately 41 percent of the total estimated reserve requirement for accident years 2003 and prior. The reserve for accident years 2004 and subsequent was determined using a Bornhuetter
Ferguson expected loss ratio method and constitute approximately 13 percent of the total reserve requirements for this class of business.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
181  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

General Liability   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for primary general liability or products liability classes. We also supplement the standard actuarial techniques by using
evaluations of the ultimate losses on unusual claims or claim accumulations by external experts on those classes of claims. The segmentation of the data reflects state differences, industry classes, deductible/non-deductible programs and type of
claim.  
     
  For certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight for all but the most recent one or two accident years. For smaller or more volatile classes of business,
 loss development methods may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods are used for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss experience for primary general liability
business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. Additionally, certain sub-classes, such as construction, are generally reviewed separately from business in other subclasses. Due to
the fairly long-tail nature of general liability business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less credibility given to the reported losses and increased reliance on expected loss ratio methods for recent accident
years.  

Commercial Automobile Liability   

We generally use loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year for commercial automobile classes of business.  
     
  Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only in the most recent accident year.  

Healthcare   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for healthcare classes of business.      
Frequency/severity methods are sometimes used for pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the loss experience.  
    We also supplement the standard actuarial techniques by using evaluations of the ultimate losses on unusual claims by experts on those classes of claims.  
     
  The largest component of the healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals and other healthcare facilities. We test reserves for excess coverage separately from those for primary coverage. For primary
coverages, loss development methods are generally given the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident years, and are given some weight for all years other than the latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss methods
are generally given all the weight for the latest three accident years, and are also given considerable weight for accident years prior to the latest three years. For other classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between loss
development and expected loss ratio methods is used. The weights assigned to each method are those that are believed to result in the best combination of responsiveness and credibility.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
182  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Professional Liability   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for professional liability classes of business.      
Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of professional liability; however, for loss reserve adequacy testing, the need to ensure sufficient credibility generally results in segmentations that are
not sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods.       We also use claim department projections of the ultimate value of each reported claim to supplement and
inform the standard actuarial approaches.  
     
  Loss development methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for claims made classes and
classes written on occurrence policy forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of the data.  

Catastrophic Casualty   

We use expected loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty or financial lines coverage that attach in excess of very high attachment points;
thus the claims experience is marked by very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number of claims, loss development methods are not used.  
     
  The expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions used are based upon the results of prior accident years for this business as well as for similar classes of business written above lower attachment points. The
business can be written on a claims-made or occurrence basis. We use ground-up claim projections provided by our claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate reserve.  

Aviation   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long-tail in nature; however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a
combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves.       Frequency/severity methods are
not employed due to the high severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from year to year.  
     
  Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss reserves for the latest accident year.  

Personal Auto   

We generally use frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for domestic personal auto classes.  
     
  For many classes of business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and comparisons to
industry and other diagnostic metrics.  

Fidelity/Surety   

We generally use loss development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident year. For surety exposures, we generally use the same method as for short-tail classes (discussed below).  
     
  Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the more recent accident years. For the latest accident year they may be given 100 percent weight.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
183  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Mortgage Guaranty   

We test mortgage guaranty reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the mortgage guaranty business.  
     
  The reserve analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of several categories of delinquency based on actual historical experience, using primarily a frequency/severity loss development approach. Additional
reserve tests are also employed, such as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are reviewed separately for each line of business considering the loss development characteristics, volume of claim data available and
applicability of various actuarial methods to each line.  

Reserves for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses are established for reported mortgage loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been incurred but have not been reported by
loan servicers, based upon historical reporting trends. We establish reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon projected claim experience for each category of delinquency,
consistent in total with the overall reserve estimate.  

Mortgage Guaranty losses and loss adjustment expenses have been adversely affected by macroeconomic events, such as declining home prices and increasing unemployment. Because these macroeconomic events are subject to
adverse or favorable change, the determination of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses requires a high degree of judgment. Responding to these adverse macroeconomic influences, numerous government and lender loan modification programs
have been implemented to mitigate mortgage losses. The loan modification programs have produced additional cures of delinquent loans in 2012 that may not continue in 2013 as some modification programs are phased out or retired. In addition, these
loan modifications may re-default resulting in new losses for Mortgage Guaranty.  

Occurrences of fraudulent loans, underwriting violations, and other deviations from contractual terms, mostly related to the 2006 and 2007 blocks of business, have resulted in historically high levels of claim rescissions
and denials (collectively referred to as rescissions) during 2011. As a result, many lenders have increased their rescission appeals activity as well as the success rate on those appeals by focusing additional resources on the process. The increased
lender attention on tracking down missing loan documents along with the heightened focus on appeals of rescissions caused the estimated ultimate rescission rate (net of appeals) assumed in the loss reserves to be lower than the rescission level
projected in 2011. If this trend continues it may unfavorably affect future results. We believe we have provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans, consistent with industry practices.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
184  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Other Short-Tail Classes   

We generally use either loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for short-tail classes such as property coverages.  
     
  Where a factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR for a class of property
coverage might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest year's earned premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could affect the adequacy of the
IBNR factor being employed.  

International   

Business written by AIG Property Casualty internationally includes both long-tail and short-tail classes of business. For long-tail classes of business, the actuarial methods used are comparable to those described above.
However, the majority of business written by AIG Property Casualty internationally is short-tail, high frequency and low severity in nature. For this business, loss development methods are generally employed to test the loss reserves.  
     
  We maintain a database of detailed historical premium and loss transactions in original currency for business written by AIG Property Casualty internationally. This allows our actuaries to determine the current reserves
without any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. Our actuaries segment the international data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between homogeneity and credibility.  

Loss Adjustment Expenses   

We determine reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial or structural driver methods. The methods generally include development methods
comparable to those described for loss development methods. The development could be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both. Other methods include the utilization of
expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of business.  
     
  We generally determine reserves for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of business. We generally determine reserves for other
unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This determination is generally done for all classes of business combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a
percent of losses paid.  

Catastrophes   

We conduct special analyses in response to major catastrophes in order to estimate our gross and net loss and loss expense liability from those events.  
     
  These analyses may include a combination of approaches, including modeling estimates, ground-up claim analysis, loss evaluation reports from on-site field adjusters, and market share estimates.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
185  

Alternative Loss Cost Trend and Loss Development Factor Assumptions by Class of Business

For
classes of business other than the classes discussed below, there is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and loss development factor assumptions.   

The effect of these deviations is expected to be less material compared to the effect on the classes noted below

Loss cost trends:       The percentage deviations noted in the table below are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what
 we consider to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several years whereas actual loss cost trends exceeded the figures cited above for several other years. Loss trends
 may deviate by more than the amounts noted above and discussed below.              

Loss development factors:       The percentage deviations noted in the table below are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but
 rather what we consider to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Except for excess workers' compensation, the assumed loss development factors are a key assumption. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to
 project future loss development. Future loss development patterns may be different from those in the past, or may deviate by more than the amounts noted above and discussed below.  

AIG's
loss reserve analyses do not generally provide a range of loss reserve estimates. A large portion of the loss reserves from AIG Property Casualty business relates to longer-tail
casualty classes of business, such as excess casualty and D O, which are driven by severity rather than frequency of claims. Using the reserving methodologies described above, our actuaries determine
their actuarial central estimates of the loss reserves and advise management on their final recommendation for management's best estimate of the recorded reserves. Subject matter experts from
underwriting and claims play an important part in informing the actuarial assumptions and methods. The governance process over the establishment of loss reserves also ensures robust considerations of
the changes in the loss trends, terms and conditions, claims handling practices, and large loss impact when determining the methods, assumptions and the estimations. This multi-disciplinary process
engages underwriting, claims, risk management, business unit executives and senior management and involves several iterative levels of feedback and response during the regular reserving process.   

  The
sensitivity analysis below addresses each major class of business for which there is a possibility of a material deviation from our overall reserve position. The analysis uses what we believe is a
reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class. Actual reserve development may not be consistent with either the original or the adjusted loss trend or loss development factor
assumptions, and other assumptions made in the reserving process may materially affect reserve development for a particular class of business.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
186  

Class of Business     

Loss Cost Trend     

Loss Development Factor     

Excess Casualty   

The assumed loss cost trend was approximately five percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost
trends applicable to the year-end 2012 loss reserve review for excess casualty will range from 0 percent to positive 10 percent, or approximately 5 percent lower or higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2012
reserve review. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the excess casualty class of business due to the long-tail nature of the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with
respect to a number of accident years (the expected loss ratio years) to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends could be attributable to changes
in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting claims.  
     
  After evaluating the historical loss development factors from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately
3.3 percent below those actually utilized in the year-end 2012 reserve review to approximately 4.6 percent above those factors actually utilized. Excess casualty is a long-tail class of business and any deviation in loss development factors
might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years to be
significantly affected by changes in loss development factors that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other
social or economic conditions affecting claims.  

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business   

The assumed loss cost trend was approximately half of one percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, including the potential effect of recent claims
relating to the credit crisis, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2012 loss reserve review for these classes will range from negative 25 percent to positive 27 percent, or
approximately 25.5 percent lower or 26.5 percent higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2012 reserve review. Because the D O class of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one accident year to the
next, there is the possibility of an exceptionally high deviation.  
      
   The assumed loss development factors are also an important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty. Because these classes are written on a claims made basis, the loss reporting and development tail is
much shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims does create the potential for significant deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating the historical loss development
factors for these classes of business for accident years since the early 1990s, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 6.8 percent lower to 11 percent higher than those
factors actually utilized in the year-end 2012 loss reserve review for these classes.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
187  

Class of Business     

Loss Cost Trend     

Loss Development Factor     

Primary Workers' Compensation   

The loss cost trend assumption is not believed to be material with respect to our loss reserves. This is primarily because our actuaries are generally able to use loss development projections for all but the most
recent accident year's reserves, so there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers' compensation business.  
      
   Generally, our actual historical workers' compensation loss development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers' compensation is a long-tail
class of business, and our business reflects a very significant volume of losses, particularly in recent accident years. After evaluating the actual historical loss development since the 1980s for this business, in our judgment, it is reasonably
likely that actual loss development factors will fall within the range of approximately 3.1 percent below to 6.9 percent above those actually utilized in the year-end 2012 loss reserve review.  

Excess Workers' Compensation   

Loss costs were trended at six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the past ten years, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end
2012 loss reserve review for excess workers' compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend.  
      
   Excess workers' compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss development. After
evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior accident years since the 1980s as well as the development over the past several years of the ground up claim projections utilized to help select the loss development factors in the tail for
this class of business, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development for excess workers' compensation could increase the current reserves by up to approximately $1.3 billion or decrease them by approximately
$850 million.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
188  

The following sensitivity analysis table summarizes the effect on the loss reserve position of using certain alternative loss cost trend
(for accident years where we use expected loss ratio methods) or loss development factor assumptions rather than the assumptions actually used in determining our estimates in the year-end
loss reserve analyses in 2012.   

(a)     Loss
cost trend assumption does not have a material impact for this line of business.   

  (b)     Percentages
not applicable due to extremely long-tailed nature of workers' compensation.   

Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts (AIG Life and Retirement)

Periodically, we evaluate estimates used in establishing liabilities for future policy
benefits    for life and accident and health insurance contracts, which include liabilities for certain payout annuities. We also evaluate estimates
used in amortizing Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (DAC), Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) and Sales Inducement Assets (SIA) for these products. We evaluate these estimates against actual
experience and adjust them based on management judgment regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns.   

For long duration traditional business, a "lock-in" principle
applies.       The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with
changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. These assumptions include margins for adverse deviation in the event that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions.   

As we experience changes over time, we update the assumptions to reflect these observed changes. Because of the long term nature of many of our liabilities subject to the "lock-in" principle, small changes in certain
assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset returns have a large effect on the degree of reserve deficiency. If observed changes in actual experience or estimates
result in projected future losses under loss recognition testing, we adjust DAC through amortization expense, and may record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense. Loss recognition testing is performed at an
aggregate AIG Life and Retirement reporting segment level. Once loss recognition has been recorded for a block of business, the old assumption set is replaced (i.e., a DAC unlocking), and the assumption set used for the loss recognition would
then be subject to the lock-in principle. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

The key assumptions used in estimating future policy benefit reserves are:                    Investment returns:     which vary by year of issuance and products.                    Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates:     based upon actual experience modified to allow for variation in policy form, risk classification and distribution channel.       
            Premium rate increases    
(Long-term care)  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
189  

We also use these estimates to determine whether to adjust DAC and record additional liabilities when unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity
securities available for sale are recognized through accumulated other comprehensive income. The determination is made at each balance sheet date, as if the securities had been sold at their stated
aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. Significant unrealized appreciation on investments in a prolonged low interest rate environment may cause DAC to be adjusted and
additional future policy benefit liabilities to be recorded through a charge directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (ie. Shadow DAC). This is included, net of tax, with the change in net
unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments.   

Our future policy benefits include guaranteed minimum death benefits
(GMDB).       We determine the GMDB liability each period end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected
account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected fees. The estimates include assumptions about interest rates, mortality rates, lapse rates and a
randomly generated model of investment returns. In addition to GMDB, our future policy benefits include, to a lesser extent, guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB). We determine GMIB liability each
period end by estimating the expected value of the periodic income payments from annuities in excess of the projected account balance. We derive this estimate at the date the annuity converts to
regular payments, and we recognize the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. We periodically evaluate estimates used and adjust the additional liability
balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.   

We also issue certain variable annuity products that offer optional guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and
guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV).       These living benefits are embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from
the host contract and carried at fair value. The fair value estimates of the living benefit guarantees include assumptions such as equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility and
policyholder behavior. We also incorporate our own risk of non-performance in the valuation of the embedded policy derivatives. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for information on how AIG incorporates its own non-performance risk.   

  We
have a dynamic hedging program designed to manage economic risk exposure associated with changes in the fair value of GMWB and GMAV liabilities caused by changes in the equity markets, interest
rates and market implied volatilities. The program utilizes hedging instruments, including derivatives such as equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap contracts, and is designed so
that changes in value of the hedging instruments move in the opposite direction of changes in the GMWB and GMAV embedded derivative liabilities. We monitor the hedging positions on a daily basis in
relation to the change in valuation of GMWB and GMAV embedded derivative liabilities, and rebalance those positions as needed. Differences between the change in fair value of GMWB and GMAV embedded
derivative liabilities and the hedging instruments can be caused by extreme and unanticipated movements in the equity markets, interest rates and market volatility, policyholder behavior, statutory
capital considerations and constraints and the ability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off. None of the derivative instruments
described above are designated for hedge accounting.   

  Approximately
56 percent of our individual variable annuity account values contain either a GMWB rider or a GMAV rider as of December 31, 2012. Declines in the equity markets, increased
volatility and a sustained low interest rate environment increase our exposure to potential benefits under the GMWB and GMAV contracts, leading to an increase in the existing liability for those
benefits. Our exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder's account balance is below the guaranteed withdrawal or account value amount. As of
December 31, 2012, our exposure to the guaranteed withdrawal and account value amount under GMWB and GMAV was $0.9 billion and $10 million, respectively.   

  The
only way the GMWB contract holder can monetize the excess of the guaranteed amount over the account value of the contract is through a series of withdrawals that do not exceed a specific
percentage per year of the guaranteed amount. If, after the series of withdrawals, the account value is exhausted, the contract holder will receive a series of annuity payments equal to the remaining
guaranteed amount, and, for lifetime GWWB products, the annuity payments can continue beyond the guaranteed amount. The account value can also fluctuate with equity
market returns on a daily basis resulting in increases or decreases in the excess of the guaranteed amount over account value.   

The
net impact of the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities, as well as the change in the fair value of the derivative instruments is included in Net Realized Capital Gains
(Losses).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
190  

For
a further discussion of the risks of AIG's unhedged exposures, see Item 1A.   Risk Factors   Business and Operations.   

Estimated Gross Profits for Interest-Sensitive Products (AIG Life and Retirement)

Estimated gross profits (EGP) are subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any single period. EGP is composed of net investment income, net
realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains and losses. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of EGP used to amortize DAC may also
change.   

   The following table summarizes the sensitivity of changes in certain assumptions in the amortization of DAC/SIA, guaranteed benefits reserve and unearned revenue liability and
the related hypothetical impact on year-end 2012 balances. The effect of changes in the equity markets, volatility and interest rates primarily impacts individual variable annuities
(SunAmerica Retirement Markets) and group retirement products (VALIC). The effect of changes in mortality primarily impacts the universal life insurance business.   

(a)     Represents
the net impact of 1 percent increase or decrease in long-term equity returns for GMDB and GMIB reserves and negligible net impact of 1 percent
increase or decrease in the S P 500 index for living benefit reserves.   

  (b)     Represents
the net impact of 1 percentage point increase or decrease in implied volatility.   

(c)     Represents
the net impact of a 10 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Does not represent interest rate spread compression.   

The analysis of DAC, guaranteed benefits reserve and unearned revenue liability is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions
described above. We estimate each of the above factors individually, without the effect of any correlation among the key assumptions. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single
assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results.   

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on Available For Sale Securities

At each balance sheet date, we evaluate our available for sale securities holdings with unrealized losses.   

See
the discussion in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by security type, that we use to determine the amount
of other-than-temporary impairment on fixed maturity and equity securities.   

Goodwill Impairment

For a discussion of goodwill impairment, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
191  

Liability for Legal Contingencies

We estimate and record a liability for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent such losses are probable and can be
estimated. Determining a reasonable estimate of the amount of such losses requires significant management judgment. In many cases, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred
or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the matter is close to resolution. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in
cases in which claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages, we often cannot predict the outcome or estimate the eventual loss or range of reasonably possible losses related to such matters.   

See
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information about the measurement of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
and how our accounting policy incorporates credit risk in fair value measurements.   

The following table presents the fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities by source of value determination:   

(a)     Includes
$28.7 billion for which the primary source is broker quotes.   

  (b)     Includes
available for sale and trading securities.   

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities

Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three
"levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

The following table presents the amount of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3:   

Level 3 fair value measurements are based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant input that is unobservable. We consider unobservable
inputs to be those for which market data is not available and that are developed using the best information available about the assumptions that market participants would use when valuing the asset or
liability. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment.   

We
classify fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities as Level 3 when they require significant unobservable inputs in their valuation, including contractual terms, prices and
rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates, default rates, mortality rates and correlations of such inputs.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
192  

Table of Contents    

  The following paragraphs describe the methods we use to measure fair value on a recurring basis for certain classes of assets and liabilities classified in
Level 3. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the valuation methodologies for other assets classified in Level 3, including certain fixed maturity
securities and certain other invested assets, as well as discussion of transfers of Level 3 assets and liabilities.   

Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio

The entities included in GCM wrote credit protection on the super senior risk layer of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), multi-sector CDOs and diversified portfolios
of corporate debt, and prime residential mortgages through 2006. In these transactions, AIG is at risk of credit performance on the super senior risk layer related to such assets. To a lesser extent,
those entities also wrote protection on tranches below the super senior risk layer, primarily related to regulatory capital relief transactions.   

  See
Notes 6 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the Regulatory Capital, Multi-Sector CDO, Corporate Debt/Collateralized Debt Obligation (CLO) and other
portfolios.   

  AIG
utilizes sensitivity analyses that estimate the effects of using alternative pricing and other key inputs on our calculation of the unrealized market valuation loss related to the super senior
credit default swap portfolio. While we believe that the ranges used in these analyses are reasonable, we are unable to predict which of the scenarios is most likely to occur. As recent experience
demonstrates, actual results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios, and there can be no assurance that the unrealized market valuation loss related to the
super senior credit default swap portfolio will be consistent with any of the sensitivity analyses. On average, prices for CDOs increased during 2012. Further, it is difficult to extrapolate future
experience based on current market conditions.   

  For
the purposes of estimating sensitivities for the super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, the change in valuation derived using the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model is
used to estimate the change in the fair value of the derivative liability. Of the total $3.9 billion net notional amount of CDS written on multi-sector CDOs outstanding at December 31,
2012, a BET value is available for $2.6 billion net notional amount. No BET value is determined for $1.3 billion of CDS written on European multi-sector CDOs as prices on the underlying
securities held by the CDOs are not provided by collateral managers; instead these CDS are valued using counterparty prices. Therefore, sensitivities disclosed below apply only to the net notional
amount of $2.6 billion.   

  The
most significant assumption used in the BET model is the estimated price of the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual price of the securities within the collateral pools
differs from the price used in estimating the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for material variation in the fair value
estimate. Any declines in the value of the underlying collateral securities held by a CDO will similarly affect the value of the super senior CDO securities. While the models attempt to predict
changes in the prices of underlying collateral securities held within a CDO, the changes are subject to actual market conditions which have proved to be highly volatile. We cannot predict reasonably
likely changes in the prices of the underlying collateral securities held within a CDO at this time.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
193  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents key inputs used in the BET model, and the potential increase (decrease) to the fair value of the derivative liability by ABS category at
December 31, 2012 corresponding to changes in these key inputs:   

(a)     The
diversity score is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible.   

  (b)     The
discount curve is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible. Furthermore, for this input it is not possible to
disclose a weighted average input as a discount curve consists of a series of data points.   

These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that the actual
levels of the key inputs will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by us for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from the use of other
changes in these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
194  

Table of Contents    

GLOSSARY     

   Accident year     The annual calendar accounting period in which loss events
occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.   

Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted     the combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year
development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting.   

   Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted     the loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year
development, net of premium adjustments and the impact of reserve discount. Catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG Property Casualty in excess of
$10 million each.   

   Acquisition ratio     acquisition costs divided by net premiums earned. Acquisition costs are those costs incurred to acquire new and renewal
insurance contracts and also include the amortization of VOBA. Acquisition costs vary with sales and include, but are not limited to, commissions, premium taxes, direct marketing costs, certain costs
of personnel engaged in sales support activities such as underwriting, and the change in deferred acquisition costs. Acquisition costs that are incremental and directly related to successful sales
efforts are deferred and recognized over the coverage periods of related insurance contracts. Acquisition costs that are not incremental and directly related to successful sales efforts are recognized
as incurred.   

   Admitted insurer     A company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.   

   AIG   After-tax operating income (loss)     is derived by excluding the following items from net income (loss):
income (loss) from discontinued operations, net loss (gain) on sale of divested businesses, income from divested businesses, legacy FIN 48 and other tax adjustments, legal reserves
(settlements) related to "legacy crisis matters," deferred income tax valuation allowance (releases) charges, amortization of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York prepaid commitment fee asset, changes
in fair value of AIG Life and Retirement fixed income securities designated to hedge living benefit liabilities, change in benefit reserves and deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), value of
business acquired (VOBA), and sales inducement assets (SIA) related to net realized capital (gains) losses, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net realized capital (gains) losses,
non-qualifying derivative hedging activities, excluding net realized capital (gains) losses and bargain purchase gain. "Legacy crisis matters" include favorable and unfavorable settlements
related to events leading up to and resulting from our September 2008 liquidity crisis. It also includes legal fees incurred by AIG as the plaintiff in connection with such legal matters.   

   AIG Life and Retirement   Operating income (loss)     Operating income (loss) is derived by excluding the following items
from net income (loss): legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters, changes in fair values of fixed maturity securities designated to hedge living benefit liabilities, net realized capital
(gains) losses, and changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA, and SIA related to net realized capital (gains) losses.   

AIG Life and Retirement   Premiums, deposits and other considerations     includes life insurance premiums and deposits on
annuity contracts and mutual funds.   

   AIG Property Casualty   Net premiums written     represent the sales of an insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums
assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net premiums earned are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are a measure of performance for a sales
period while Net premiums earned are a measure of performance for a coverage period. From the period in which the premiums are written until the period in which they are earned, the amount is
presented as Unearned premium reserves in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

   AIG Property Casualty   Operating income (loss)     In 2012, AIG Property Casualty revised its non-GAAP income
measure from underwriting income (loss) to operating income (loss), which includes both underwriting income (loss) and net investment income, but not net realized capital (gains) losses or other
(income) expense, legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters and bargain purchase gain. Underwriting income (loss) is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and claims adjustment
expense and underwriting expenses, which consist of the acquisition costs and general operating expenses.   

Assume, assumed reinsurance, assuming company     An insurance company that accepts all or part of a ceding company's insurance or reinsurance
on a risk or exposure is referred to as the assuming company.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
195  

Table of Contents   

   Basel I, Basel II and Basel III     set of capital and liquidity standards for international financial institution established by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision.   

   BET      Binomial Expansion Technique     A model that generates expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and
derives a credit rating for those tranches.   

   Book Value Per Share Excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (loss) (AOCI)     is used to show the amount of our net worth on a
per-share basis. Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI is derived by dividing Total AIG shareholders' equity, excluding AOCI, by Total common shares outstanding.   

   Case reserves     Claim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported claim.   

   Casualty insurance     Insurance that is primarily associated with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the
insured, and the legal liability imposed on the insured as a result.   

   Cede, ceded reinsurance, ceding company     An insurance company that reinsures its risk with another, is referred to as the ceding company.   

Combined ratio     Sum of the loss ratio and the acquisition and general operating expense ratios.   

   CSA      Credit Support Annex     A legal document that provides for collateral postings at various ratings and
threshold levels.   

   DAC      Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs     Deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the
successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business.   

Expense ratio     Sum of acquisition costs and general operating expenses, divided by net premiums earned.   

   First-Lien     Priority over all other liens or claims on a property in the event of default on a mortgage.   

   General operating expense ratio     general operating expenses divided by net premiums earned. General operating expenses are those costs that
are generally attributed to the support infrastructure of the organization and include but are not limited to personnel costs, projects and bad debt expenses. General operating expenses exclude claims
adjustment expenses, acquisition expenses, and investment expenses.   

   GIC/GIA      Guaranteed Investment Contract/Guaranteed Investment Agreement     A contract whereby the seller
provides a guaranteed repayment of principal and a fixed or floating interest rate for a predetermined period of time.   

   IBNR      Incurred But Not Reported     Estimates of claims that have been incurred but not reported to us.   

   IFS      Insurer Financial Strength ratings     IFS ratings measure the ability of an insurance company to meet
its obligations to contract holders and policyholders.   

   LAE      Loss Adjustment Expenses     The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the
portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs.   

   Long-Tail Reserves     Reserves for claims that may be reported or settled several years after the coverage period has expired for
these classes of businesses. Long-tail casualty classes of business include excess and umbrella liability, D O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers' compensation, general
liability, products liability and related classes.   

   Loss Ratio     Claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. Claims adjustment expenses are directly
attributed to settling and paying claims of insureds and include, but are not limited to, legal fees, adjuster's fees, and claims department personnel costs.   

   Loss reserve development     The increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the
re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims.   

Loss reserves     Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. The estimated ultimate cost of settling claims relating to insured
events that have occurred on or before the balance sheet date, whether or not reported to the insurer at that date.   

   LTV      Loan-to-Value Ratio     Principal amount of loan amount divided by appraised
value of collateral securing the loan.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
196  

Table of Contents   

   Net premiums written     Represent the sales of an insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net
premiums earned are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are a measure of performance for a sales period while Net premiums earned are a measure of
performance for a coverage period. From the period in which the premiums are written until the period in which they are earned, the amount is presented as Unearned premium reserves in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.   

   Noncontrolling interest     The portion of equity ownership in a consolidated subsidiary not attributable to the controlling parent company.   

   Other Operations   Operating income (loss):     income (loss) excluding certain legal reserves (settlements) related to
legacy crisis matters, loss on extinguishment of debt, amortization of prepaid commitment fee asset, Net realized capital (gains) losses, net (gains) losses on sale of divested businesses and
properties, and income from divested businesses.   

   Overturns     The reversal of a rescinded mortgage guarantee policy.   

   Policy fees     An amount added to a policy premium, or deducted from a policy cash value or contract holder account, to reflect the cost of
issuing a policy, establishing the required records, sending premium notices and other related expenses.   

   Prior year development     Increase or decrease in estimates of losses and loss expenses for prior years that is included in earnings.   

RBC      Risk-Based Capital     A formula designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's
statutory surplus compared to the risks inherent in its business.   

   Reinstatement premium     Additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of
reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties.   

   Reinsurance     The practice whereby one insurer, the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to indemnify
another insurer, the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.   

Rescission     Denial of claims and termination of coverage on loans related to fraudulent or undocumented claims, underwriting
guideline violations and other deviations from contractual terms.   

   Reserve deficiency     When actual reported reserves are lower than the expected reserves. This is also referred to as unfavorable loss
development.   

   Reserve redundancy     When actual reported reserves exceed expected reserves. This is also referred to as favorable loss development.   

   Retained Interest     Category within AIG's Other operations that includes the fair value gains or losses, prior to their sale, of the AIA
ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial public offering and the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities that were received as consideration from the sale of American Life Insurance
Company (ALICO) and the fair value gains or losses, prior to the FRBNY liquidation of ML III assets, on the retained interest in ML III.   

   Second-lien     Subordinate in ranking to the first-lien holder on a property in the event of default on a mortgage.   

   Severe losses     Individual non-catastrophe first party losses greater than $10 million, net of related reinsurance.   

Short-Tail Reserves     Reserves for claims that are generally reported and paid within a relatively short period of time during
and following the policy coverage period. Short-tail classes of business consist principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes.   

   SIA      Sales Inducement Asset     Represents amounts that are credited to policyholder account balances
related to the enhanced crediting rates that a seller offers on certain of its annuity products.   

   SIFI      Systemically Important Financial Institutions     Financial institutions are deemed systemically
important (that is, the failure of the financial institution could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States) by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) based on a
three-stage analytical process.   

   Solvency II     Legislation in the European Union which reforms the insurance industry's solvency framework, including minimum capital
and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
197  

Table of Contents   

  standards.
The Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC), was adopted on November 25, 2009 and is expected to become effective in January 2014.   

   SSDMF      Social Security Death Master File     A database of deceased individuals, most of whom were issued a
social security number during their lifetimes, maintained by the U.S. Social Security Administration.   

   Surrender charge     A charge levied against an investor for the early withdrawal of funds from a life insurance or annuity contract, or for
the cancellation of the agreement.   

   Unearned premium reserve     Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect unearned premiums which are usually refundable to
policyholders if an insurance or reinsurance contract is canceled prior to expiration of the contract term.   

   VaR      Value-at-Risk     A summary statistical measure that uses the estimated
volatility and correlation of market factors to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined period of time with a specified level of statistical confidence.   

   VOBA      Value of Business Acquired     Present value of projected future gross profits from
in-force policies from acquired businesses.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
198  

Table of Contents   

ACRONYMS     

A H     Accident and Health Insurance          ABS     Asset-Backed Security          CDO     Collateralized Debt Obligation          CDS     Credit Default Swap          CLO     Collateralized Loan Obligations      
   CMA     Capital Maintenance Agreement          CMBS     Commercial
Mortgage Backed Securities          FASB     Financial Accounting Standards Board          FRBNY     Federal Reserve Bank of New York          GAAP     Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America          GMAV     Guaranteed Minimum Account Value Benefits          GMDB     Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits          GMIB     Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits  
     
           GMWB     Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefits          IFRS     International Financial Reporting Standards      
   ISDA     International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.          NAIC     National Association of Insurance Commissioners          NM     Not Meaningful          OTC     Over-the-Counter          OTTI     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment          RMBS     Residential Mortgage Backed
Securities          S P     Standard   Poor's Financial Services LLC          SEC     Securities and Exchange Commission          TARP     Troubled Asset Relief Program of the Department of the Treasury          VIE     Variable Interest Entity  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
199  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A  / QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK

The information required by this item is set forth in the Enterprise Risk Management section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
200  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8  / FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
201  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
202  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of American International Group, Inc.:     

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of American International Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (AIG) at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedules listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also
in our opinion, AIG maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). AIG's management is responsible for these financial statements
and financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A in the 2012 Form 10-K. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
financial statements, on the financial statement schedules, and on AIG's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, as of January 1, 2012, AIG retrospectively adopted a new accounting standard that amends the accounting for costs
incurred by insurance companies that can be capitalized in connection with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts.   

  A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

  Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP     

  New York, New York 
February 21, 2013   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
203  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.     

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET     

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of revisions to prior year balances in connection with a change
in accounting principle.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
204  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of revisions to prior year balances in connection
with a change in accounting principle.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
205  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of revisions to prior year balances in connection
with a change in accounting principle.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
206  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY   

(a)      Excludes
gains of $222 million, $552 million and $73 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests and net
income attributable to noncontrolling nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of $0, $74 million and $1.8 billion in 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  (b)      Excludes
$4 million, $(2) million and $5 million attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.   

  (c)      See
Notes 18 and 25 to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of revisions to prior year balances in connection
with a change in accounting principle.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
207  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of revisions to
prior-year balances in connection with a change in accounting principle. In addition, changes were made to the presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to align
presentation of changes in fair value of derivatives with changes in the administration of our derivatives portfolio.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
208  

Table of Contents    

Supplementary Disclosure of Consolidated Cash Flow Information   

*         2011
includes payment of FRBNY credit facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion, before the facility was terminated on January 14, 2011 in connection with the
Recapitalization.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
209  

Table of Contents    

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

American International Group, Inc. is a leading international insurance organization serving customers in more than 130 countries. AIG companies serve commercial,
institutional and individual
customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of life insurance and retirement services in the
United States. AIG Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms
"AIG," "we," "us" or "our" mean American International Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and the term "AIG Parent" means American International Group, Inc. and not to any of
its consolidated subsidiaries.   

  The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AIG, our controlled subsidiaries (generally through a greater than 50 percent ownership of voting rights of a voting interest
entity), and variable interest entities (VIEs) in which we are the primary beneficiary. Equity investments in corporate entities that we do not consolidate, but in which we hold 20 percent to
50 percent of the voting rights and investments in partnership and partnership-like entities for which we have more than minor influence over operating and financial policies, are
accounted for under the equity method unless we have elected the fair value option.   

  Certain
of our foreign subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements report on different annual fiscal period bases, in most cases ending November 30. The effect on our
consolidated financial condition and results of operations of all material events occurring at these subsidiaries between such fiscal year end and December 31 for all periods presented has been
recorded.   

  The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). All material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated.   

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. We
consider the accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions to be those relating to items considered by management in the determination
of:  

classification of International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC) as held for sale;    
           insurance liabilities, including property and casualty and mortgage guaranty unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses
and future policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts;   
           income tax assets and liabilities, including recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the predictability of future
tax operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;   
           recoverability of assets including reinsurance assets;   
           estimated gross profits for investment-oriented products;   
           impairment charges, including other-than-temporary impairments of financial instruments and
goodwill impairments;   
           liabilities for legal contingencies; and  
           fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities.    

  These
accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions
used, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.   

Prior Period Reclassifications and Segment Changes

Prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Significant items include:  

Segment changes discussed in Note 3 herein.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
210  

Table of Contents   

Revisions attributable to discontinued operations presented in Note 4 herein.    
           Reclassified approximately $1.3 billion of income taxes from Accumulated other comprehensive income to Additional
paid in capital as of January 1, 2010 to correct the presentation of components of Shareholders' Equity. These income taxes related to the creation in 2009 of special purpose vehicles that held
our interests in AIA Group Ltd. (AIA) and American Life Insurance Company (ALICO). There was no effect on Total AIG shareholders' equity or on Total equity as a result of this reclassification.    
           Changes were made to the presentation within the Consolidated Statement of Operations to align the presentation of changes
in the fair value of derivatives with changes in the administration of AIG's derivatives portfolio. Specifically, amounts attributable to derivative activity where AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG
Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP) executed transactions with third parties on behalf of AIG subsidiaries have been reclassified from Other income to Net
realized capital gains (losses).    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
211  

Table of Contents   

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(a)  Revenues and expenses:   

Premiums:       Premiums for short duration
contracts are recorded as written on the inception date of the policy. Premiums are earned primarily on a pro rata basis over the term of the related coverage. Sales of extended services contracts are
reflected as premiums and earned on a pro rata basis over the term of the related coverage. The reserve for unearned premiums includes the portion of premiums written relating to the unexpired terms
of coverage.
Reinsurance premiums under a reinsurance contract are typically earned over the same period as the underlying policies, or risks, covered by the contracts. As a result, the earning pattern of a
reinsurance contract may extend up to 24 months, reflecting the inception dates of the underlying policies throughout a year.   

  Reinsurance
premiums ceded are recognized as a reduction in revenues over the period the reinsurance coverage is provided in proportion to the risks to which the premiums relate.   

  Premiums
for long duration insurance products and life contingent annuities are recognized as revenues when due. Estimates for premiums due but not yet collected are accrued.   

Policy fees:       Policy fees represent fees
recognized from universal life and investment-type products consisting of policy charges for the cost of insurance, policy administration charges, amortization of unearned revenue reserves
and surrender charges.   

Net investment income:       For a discussion of
our policies on net investment income, see Note 7 herein.   

Net realized capital gains (losses):       For a
discussion of our policies on net realized capital gains (losses), see Note 7 herein.   

Other income:       Other income includes
unrealized gains and losses on derivatives, including unrealized market valuation gains and losses associated with the Global Capital Markets (GCM) super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio, as
well as income from the Direct Investment book (DIB).   

  Other
income from the operations of the DIB and our Other Operations category consists of the following:  

Change in fair value relating to financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected.    
           Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes
in the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.   
           Dividend income from common and preferred stock and distributions from other investments.    
           Changes in the fair value of trading securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, futures, hybrid financial
instruments, securities purchased under agreements to resell, and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for which the fair value option was elected.   
           Realized capital gains and losses from the sales of available for sale securities and investments in private equity funds
and hedge funds and other investments.   
           Income earned on real estate based investments and related losses from property level impairments and financing costs.    
           Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions.   
           Reductions to the cost basis of securities available for sale for other-than-temporary
impairments.   
           Earnings from private equity funds and hedge fund investments accounted for under the equity
method.  
           Gains and losses recognized in earnings on derivatives for the effective portion and their related hedged items.    

Policyholder benefits and claims
incurred:       Incurred claims and claims adjustment expense for short duration insurance contracts consist of the estimated
ultimate cost of settling claims incurred within the reporting period, including incurred but not reported claims, plus changes in estimates of current and prior period losses resulting from the
continuous review process, which are charged to income as incurred. Benefits for long duration insurance   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
212  

Table of Contents   

  contracts
consist of benefits paid and changes in future policy benefits liabilities. Benefits for universal life and investment-type products primarily consist of benefit payments made in
excess of policy account balances except for certain contracts for which the fair value option was elected, for which benefits represent the entire change in fair value (including derivative gains and
losses on related economic hedges).   

Interest credited to policyholder account
balances:       Represents interest on account-value-based policyholder deposits consisting of amounts credited on
non-equity-indexed account values, accretion to the host contract for equity indexed products, and net amortization of sales inducements.   

Amortization of deferred acquisition
costs:       For a discussion of our accounting policies on amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, see
Note 10 herein.   

(b)  Held-for-sale and discontinued
operations:       For a discussion of our accounting policies on reporting a business as held for sale or as discontinued operations, see
Note 4 herein.   

(c)  Investments:   

Fixed maturity and
equity securities:       For a discussion of our accounting policies on classification, measurement and
other-than-temporary impairment of fixed maturity and equity securities, see Note 7 herein.   

Mortgage and other loans receivable  
net:       For discussion of our policies on classification, measurement and the allowance for credit losses on mortgages and
other loans receivable, see Note 8 herein.   

Other invested assets:       For a discussion of
our accounting policies on classification, measurement and other-than-temporary impairment of other invested assets, see Note 7 herein.   

Short-term
investments:       Short-term investments consist of interest-bearing cash equivalents, time deposits, securities
purchased under agreements to resell, and investments, such as commercial paper, with original maturities within one year from the date of purchase.   

  For
a discussion of our accounting policies on securities purchased under agreements to resell, see Note 7 herein.   

(d)  Cash:       Cash represents cash on hand and
non-interest bearing demand deposits.   

(e)  Premiums and other receivables  
net:       Premiums and other receivables includes premium balances receivable, amounts due from agents and brokers and insureds, trade
receivables for the DIB and GCM and other receivables. Trade receivables for GCM include cash collateral posted to derivative counterparties that are not eligible to be netted against derivative
liabilities. The allowance for doubtful accounts on premiums and other receivables was $619 million and $484 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

(f)  Reinsurance assets  
net:       For a discussion about our accounting policies on reinsurance assets   net, see Note 9 herein.   

(g)  Deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC):       For
discussion of our accounting policies on deferred policy acquisition costs, see Note 10 herein.   

(h)  Derivative assets and derivative liabilities, at fair
value:       For discussion of our accounting policies on derivative assets and derivative liabilities, at fair value, see Note 12
herein.   

(i)  Other assets:       Other assets consists of sales
inducement assets, prepaid expenses, deposits, other deferred charges, real estate, other fixed assets, capitalized software costs, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, and restricted
cash.   

  We
offer sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales inducements
provided to the contractholder are recognized as part of the liability for policyholders' contract deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Such amounts are deferred and amortized over the life of
the contract using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC (see Note 10 herein). To qualify for such accounting treatment, the bonus interest must be explicitly identified in
the contract at inception. We must also demonstrate that such amounts are incremental to amounts we credit on similar contracts without bonus interest, and are higher than the contract's expected
ongoing crediting rates for periods after the bonus period. The deferred bonus interest and other deferred sales inducement assets totaled $517 million and $803 million at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The amortization expense associated   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
213  

Table of Contents   

  with
these assets is reported within Interest Credited to Policyholder Account Balances in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Such amortization expense totaled $162 million,
$239 million and $146 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  The
cost of buildings and furniture and equipment is depreciated principally on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (maximum of 40 years for buildings and
10 years for furniture and equipment). Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to income as incurred; expenditures for improvements are capitalized and depreciated. We periodically
assess the carrying value of our real estate for purposes of determining any asset impairment. Capitalized software costs, which represent costs directly related to obtaining, developing or upgrading
internal use software, are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over a period generally not exceeding five years. Real estate, fixed assets and other
long-lived assets are assessed for impairment when impairment indicators exist.   

(j)  Goodwill:       Goodwill represents the future
economic benefits arising from assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently
if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. All of our goodwill was associated with and allocated to the AIG Property Casualty Commercial and Consumer segments at December 31,
2012.   

  The
impairment assessment involves first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether events or circumstances exist that lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair
value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of the events or circumstances, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting
unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which a quantitative assessment for potential impairment is performed. If potential
impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured (if any) and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level.   

  If
we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit and compare the estimated fair
value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting unit's fair value may be based on one or a combination of approaches including
market-based earnings multiples of the unit's peer companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered for sale, third-party
indications of fair value, if available. We consider one or more of these estimates when determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the impairment test.   

  If
the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill associated
with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of the goodwill. The
implied fair value of the goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts that would be assigned to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities in a
hypothetical business combination. An impairment charge is recognized in earnings to the extent of the excess. AIG Property Casualty manages its assets on an aggregate basis and does not allocate its
assets, other than goodwill, between its operating segments. Therefore, the carrying value of the reporting units was determined by allocating the carrying value of AIG Property Casualty to those
units based upon an internal capital allocation model.   

  In
connection with the announcement of the ILFC sale, discussed in Note 4, and management's determination that the reporting unit met the held-for-sale criteria,
management tested the remaining goodwill of the reporting unit for impairment. Based on the results of the goodwill impairment test, we determined that all of the goodwill allocated to the reporting
unit should be impaired and, accordingly, recognized a goodwill impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2012.   

At
December 31, 2012, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. Based on the results of the goodwill impairment test, we concluded that the remaining goodwill was not impaired.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
214  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the changes in goodwill by reportable segment:   

(a)     Includes
foreign exchange translation and purchase price adjustments.   

(k)  Separate accounts:       Separate accounts
represent funds for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders who bear the investment risk. Each account has specific investment objectives and the
assets are carried at fair value. The assets of each account are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise from any of our other businesses. The liabilities for these accounts are
equal to the account assets.   

(l)  Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
expense:       For discussion of our accounting policies on liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, see Note 13
herein.   

(m)  Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and policyholder contract
deposits:       For discussion of our accounting policies on future policy benefits and life and accident and health insurance contracts and
policyholder contract deposits, see Note 13 herein. See Note 6 herein for additional fair value information.   

(n)  Other policyholder funds:       Other policyholder
funds are reported at cost and include any policyholder funds on deposit that encompass premium deposits and similar items.   

(o)  Income taxes:       For a discussion of our
accounting policies on income taxes, see Note 24 herein.   

(p)  Other liabilities:       Other liabilities consist
of other funds on deposit, other payables, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased. We have entered into certain insurance and
reinsurance contracts, primarily in our AIG Property Casualty segment, that do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be accounted for as insurance or reinsurance. Accordingly, the premiums received
on such contracts, after deduction for certain related expenses, are recorded as deposits within Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Net proceeds of these deposits are invested and
generate Net investment income. As amounts are paid, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit liability is reduced. Also included in Other liabilities are trade payables for the DIB and
GCM, which include option premiums received and payables to counterparties that relate to unrealized gains and losses on futures, forwards, and options and balances due to clearing brokers and
exchanges. Trade payables for GCM also include cash collateral received from derivative counterparties that is not contractually nettable against derivative assets.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
215  

Table of Contents   

  Securities
and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased represent sales of securities and spot commodities not owned at the time of sale. The obligations arising from such transactions are recorded
on a trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Fair values of securities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices. Fair values of spot commodities sold but not yet
purchased are based on current market prices of reference spot futures contracts traded on exchanges.   

  For
further discussion of secured financing arrangements, see Note 7 herein.   

(q)  Long-term debt:       For a discussion
of our accounting policies on long-term debt, see Note 15 herein.   

(r)  Contingent liabilities:       For a discussion of
our accounting policies on contingent liabilities, see Note 16 herein.   

(s)  Foreign currency:       Financial statement
accounts expressed in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars. Functional currency assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars generally using rates of exchange prevailing at
the balance sheet date of each respective subsidiary and the related translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related
taxes, in Total AIG shareholders' equity. Functional currencies are generally the currencies of the local operating environment. Financial statement accounts expressed in currencies other than the
functional currency of a consolidated entity are translated into that entity's functional currency. Income statement accounts expressed in functional currencies are translated using average exchange
rates during the period. The adjustments resulting from translation of financial statements of foreign entities operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in income. Exchange gains and
losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are recorded in income.   

(t)  Noncontrolling interests:       For discussion of
our accounting policies on noncontrolling interests, see Note 18 herein.   

(u)  Earnings (loss) per share:       For a discussion
of our accounting policies on earnings (loss) per share, see Note 19 herein   

Future Application of Accounting Standards

Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment

In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard that allows a company the option to first assess qualitatively whether it is more
likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. A company is not required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative
impairment test unless the company determines it is more likely than not the asset is impaired.   

  The
standard is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. While early adoption was permitted, we adopted the standard on
its required effective date of January 1, 2013. We do not expect adoption of the standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities

In February 2013 the FASB issued guidance that clarifies the scope of transactions subject to disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities. The guidance applies to
derivatives, repurchase agreements and reverse purchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are offset either in accordance with specific criteria contained
in FASB Accounting Standards Codification or subject to a master netting arrangement or similar agreement.   

  The
standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and will be applied retrospectively to all comparative periods presented. We do not expect
adoption of the standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
216  

Table of Contents   

Presentation of Comprehensive Income

In February 2013 the FASB issued guidance on the presentation requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. We will be required to
disclose the effect of significant items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items of net income or provide a cross-reference to other disclosures
currently required under U.S. GAAP for relevant items.   

  The
standard is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. We do not expect adoption of the standard to have a material effect on our consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2012

We adopted the following accounting standards on January 1, 2012   

Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts   

  In October 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that amends the accounting for costs incurred by insurance companies that can be capitalized in connection with
acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The standard clarifies how to determine whether the costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify as DAC.
We adopted the standard retrospectively on January 1, 2012.   

  Deferred
policy acquisition costs represent those costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. We defer incremental costs that
result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition or renewal of an insurance contract. Such costs generally include agent or broker commissions and bonuses, premium taxes, and medical and
inspection fees that would not have been incurred if the insurance contract had not been acquired or renewed. Each cost is analyzed to assess whether it is fully deferrable. We partially defer costs,
including certain commissions, when we do not believe the entire cost is directly related to the acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts.   

  We
also defer a portion of employee total compensation and payroll-related fringe benefits directly related to time spent performing specific acquisition or renewal activities, including costs
associated with the time spent on underwriting, policy issuance and processing, and sales force contract selling. The amounts deferred are those that resulted in successful policy acquisition or
renewal for each distribution channel and/or cost center from which the cost originates.   

  Advertising
costs related to the issuance of insurance contracts that meet the direct-advertising criteria are deferred and amortized as part of DAC.   

  The
method we use to amortize DAC for either short- or long-duration insurance contracts did not change as a result of the adoption of the standard.   

  The
adoption of the standard resulted in a reduction to beginning of period retained earnings for the earliest period presented and a decrease in the amount of capitalized costs in connection with the
acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts. Accordingly, we revised our historical financial statements and accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for the changes in DAC and
associated changes in acquisition expenses and income taxes for affected entities and segments, including divested entities presented in continuing and discontinued operations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
217  

Table of Contents   

  The
following table presents amounts previously reported as of December 31, 2011, to reflect the effect of the change due to the retrospective adoption of the standard, and the adjusted amounts
that are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

The following tables present amounts previously reported for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 to reflect the effect of
the change due to the retrospective adoption of the standard, and the adjusted amounts that are reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.   

(a)     Includes
$140 million in Total net realized capital gains attributable to the effect of the reclassification of certain derivative activity discussed in Note 1 herein.
Also includes the effect of the reclassification of ILFC as discontinued operations.   

  (b)     Includes
an adjustment to the deferred tax valuation allowance of $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011.   

  (c)     Represents
the effect on the gain on sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison which were sold in first quarter of 2011.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
218  

Table of Contents    

(a)     Includes
$783 million in Total net realized capital gains attributable to the effect of the reclassification of certain derivative activity discussed in Note 1 herein.
Also includes the effect of the reclassification of ILFC as discontinued operations.   

  (b)     Represents
the effect on the gain on sale of AIA ordinary shares, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2010.   

  (c)     Includes
the tax impact to the AIA gain adjustment of $1.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.   

  (d)     Includes
an adjustment to the after-tax gain on the sale of ALICO of $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.   

Adoption of the standard did not affect the previously reported totals for net cash flows provided by (used in) operating, investing, or financing activities,
but did affect the following components of net cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
219  

Table of Contents   

(a)     Includes
the effect of the reclassification of ILFC as discontinued operations.   

For short-duration insurance contracts, starting in 2012, we elected to include anticipated investment income in our determination of whether the deferred
policy acquisition costs are recoverable. We believe the inclusion of anticipated investment income in the recoverability analysis is a preferable accounting policy because it includes in the
recoverability analysis the fact that there is a timing difference between when premiums are collected and in turn invested and when losses and related expenses are paid. This is considered a change
in accounting principle that required retrospective application to all periods presented. Because we historically have not recorded any premium deficiency on our short-duration insurance contracts
even without the inclusion of anticipated investment income, there were no changes to the historical financial statements for the change in accounting principle.   

Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements     

  In April 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the criteria used to determine effective control for repurchase agreements and
other similar arrangements such as securities lending transactions. The standard modifies the criteria for determining when these transactions would be accounted for as secured borrowings
(i.e., financings) instead of sales of the securities.   

  The
standard removes from the assessment of effective control the requirement that the transferor have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even
in the event of default by the transferee. The removal of this requirement makes the level of collateral received by the transferor in a repurchase agreement or similar arrangement irrelevant in
determining whether the transaction should be accounted for as a sale. As a consequence, more repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions and similar arrangements will be accounted for as
secured borrowings.   

  The
guidance in the standard was required to be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after January 1, 2012. There are no repurchase
agreements that continue to be accounted for as sales as of December 31, 2012.   

Common Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure Requirements in GAAP and IFRS     

  In May 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amended certain aspects of the fair value measurement guidance in GAAP, primarily to achieve
the FASB's objective of a converged definition of fair value and substantially converged measurement and disclosure guidance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The measurement
and disclosure requirements under GAAP and IFRS are now generally consistent, with certain exceptions including the accounting for day one gains and losses, measuring the fair value of alternative
investments using net asset value and certain disclosure requirements.   

  The
standard's fair value measurement and disclosure guidance applies to all companies that measure assets, liabilities, or instruments classified in shareholders' equity at fair value or provide fair
value disclosures for items not recorded at fair value. The guidance clarifies existing guidance on the application of fair value measurements, changes certain principles or requirements for measuring
fair value, and requires significant additional disclosures for   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
220  

Table of Contents   

  Level 3
valuation inputs. The new disclosure requirements were applied prospectively. The standard became effective beginning on January 1, 2012. The standard did not have any effect on
our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 6 for additional information related to fair value measurements.   

Presentation of Comprehensive Income     

  In June 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires the presentation of comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement
of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components, followed
consecutively by a second statement that presents total other comprehensive income and its components. The standard became effective beginning January 1, 2012 with retrospective application
required. The standard did not have any effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Testing Goodwill for Impairment     

  In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the approach to testing goodwill for impairment. The standard simplifies how
entities test goodwill for impairment by permitting an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative, two-step goodwill impairment test. The standard became effective for annual and interim
goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of the standard did not have any effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.   

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2011

In January 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires fair value disclosures about significant transfers between Level 1 and 2 measurement categories
and separate presentation of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements within the rollforward of Level 3 activity. Also, this fair value guidance clarifies the disclosure requirements about
the level of disaggregation and valuation techniques and inputs. This guidance became effective for us beginning on January 1, 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales,
issuances, and settlements within the rollforward of Level 3 activity, which became effective for us beginning on January 1, 2011. See Note 6 for additional information related to
fair value measurements.   

  In
April 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that clarifies that an insurance company should not combine any investments held in separate account interests with its interest in the same
investment held in its general account when assessing the investment for consolidation. Separate accounts represent funds for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to
the policyholders who bear the investment risk. The standard also provides guidance on how an insurer should consolidate an investment fund when the insurer concludes that consolidation of an
investment is required and the insurer's interest is through its general account in addition to any separate accounts.   

  In
April 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the guidance for a creditor's evaluation of whether a restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring and requires additional
disclosures about a creditor's troubled
debt restructuring activities. The standard clarifies the two criteria used to determine whether a modification or restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring: (i) whether the creditor has
granted a concession and (ii) whether the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties.   

  The
adoption of these standards did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2010

In June 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard addressing transfers of financial assets that removes the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity (QSPE) from the
FASB Accounting Standards Codification and removes the exception that exempted transferors from applying the consolidation rules to QSPEs.   

  In
March 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the accounting for embedded credit derivative features in structured securities that redistribute credit risk in the form of
subordination of one financial instrument to another. The standard clarifies how to determine whether embedded credit derivative features, including those in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs),
credit-linked notes (CLNs), synthetic CDOs and CLNs and other synthetic   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
221  

Table of Contents   

  securities
(e.g., commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities issued by securitization entities that wrote credit derivatives), are considered to be embedded derivatives that should
be analyzed for potential bifurcation and separate accounting or, alternatively, for fair value accounting in connection with the application of the fair value option to the entire hybrid instrument.   

  The
adoption of these standards did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
222  

Table of Contents   

3. SEGMENT INFORMATION

Commencing in the third quarter of 2012, the Chartis segment was renamed AIG Property Casualty and the SunAmerica segment was renamed AIG Life and Retirement, although
certain existing brands will continue to be used.   

  We
report the results of our operations through two reportable segments: AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement. We evaluate performance based on pre-tax income (loss),
excluding results from discontinued operations, because we believe this provides more meaningful information on how our operations are performing. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2012, we also
presented Aircraft Leasing as a reportable segment, which included the results of ILFC. As a result of the proposed transaction discussed in Note 4, Aircraft Leasing is no longer presented as a
reportable segment and the operations of ILFC are presented as discontinued operations in all periods, and associated assets and liabilities have been classified as
held-for-sale at December 31, 2012.   

AIG Property Casualty          The AIG Property
Casualty segment is presented as two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance in addition to an AIG Property Casualty Other category.   

  Our
property and casualty operations are conducted through multiple-line companies writing substantially all commercial and consumer lines both domestically and abroad. AIG Property
Casualty offers its products through a diverse, multi-channel distribution network that includes agents, wholesalers, global and local brokers, and direct-to-consumer
platforms. Beginning in the third quarter of 2010, AIG Property Casualty includes the results of Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company Limited (Fuji), which writes primarily consumer lines in
Japan. See Note 5 herein.   

  During
2012, to align financial reporting with the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the AIG Property Casualty businesses to assess performance and make decisions about
resources to be allocated, certain products previously reported in Commercial Insurance were reclassified to Consumer Insurance. Also, certain environmental liability businesses were moved from
Commercial Insurance to run-off operations included in the AIG Property Casualty Other category. Accordingly, all periods have been restated from previously reported segment information to
reflect this change. These revisions did not affect the total AIG Property Casualty reportable segment results previously reported.   

AIG Life and Retirement          The AIG Life and
Retirement segment is presented as two operating segments   Life Insurance, which focuses on mortality and morbidity based protection products, and Retirement Services, which
focuses on investment, retirement savings and income solutions.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement offers a comprehensive suite of products and services to individuals and groups, including term life insurance, universal life insurance, accident and health (A H) insurance,
fixed and variable deferred annuities, fixed payout annuities, mutual funds and financial planning. AIG Life and Retirement offers its products and services through a diverse, multi-channel
distribution network that includes banks, national, regional and independent broker-dealers, affiliated financial advisors, independent marketing organizations, independent and career insurance
agents, structured settlement brokers, benefit consultants and direct-to-consumer platforms.   

Other Operations          Our Other operations include
results from:  

Mortgage Guaranty operations;   
           Global Capital Markets operations;   
           Direct Investment book results;   
           Retained Interests, which represents the fair value gains or losses, prior to their sale, on the AIA Group Limited. (AIA)
ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial public offering the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities that were received as consideration from the sale of American Life Insurance Company
(ALICO), and the fair value gains or losses, prior to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) liquidation of Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) assets, on the retained interest in ML III;    
           Corporate   Other operations (after allocations to our business segments); and    
           Divested businesses that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
223  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents AIG's continuing operations by reportable segment:     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
224  

Table of Contents   

(a)     Included
in Total revenues presented above.   

  (b)     Interest
expense for Other operations in 2010 includes amortization of prepaid commitment fee asset related to the FRBNY Credit Facility of $3.5 billion.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
225  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents AIG's year-end identifiable assets and capital expenditures by reportable
segment:   

(a)     AIG
Property Casualty manages its assets on an aggregate basis and does not allocate its assets, other than goodwill, between its operating segments.   

  (b)     2012
includes Aircraft Leasing assets classified as assets held-for-sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty operations by operating segment:   

The following table presents AIG Life and Retirement operations by operating segment:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
226  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents AIG's consolidated operations and long-lived assets by major geographic
area:   

(a)     Revenues
are generally reported according to the geographic location of the reporting unit.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
227  

Table of Contents   

4. DIVESTED BUSINESSES, HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS

Divested Businesses

AIA Initial Public Offering and Subsequent Sales

On October 29, 2010, we completed an initial public offering (IPO) of 8.08 billion ordinary shares of AIA for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately
$20.5 billion. Upon completion of the IPO, we owned 33 percent of the outstanding AIA ordinary shares. Accordingly, we deconsolidated AIA and recorded a pre-tax gain of
$18.1 billion in 2010. During 2012, we sold our remaining AIA ordinary shares for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $14.5 billion. As a result of these sales, we no longer held
an interest in AIA as of December 31, 2012. Prior to the disposition, we accounted for our investment in AIA under the fair value option with gains and losses recorded in Net investment income.
At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our retained interest in AIA was approximately $12.4 billion, and was included in Other invested assets.   

   The following table presents certain information relating to our sales of AIA ordinary shares:   

Held-For-Sale Classification

We report a business as held for sale when management has approved or received approval to sell the business and is committed to a formal plan, the business is available for
immediate sale, the business is being actively marketed, the sale is anticipated to occur during the next 12 months and certain other specified criteria are met. A business classified as held
for sale is recorded at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value, a loss is recognized.
Depreciation is not recorded on assets of a business after it is classified as held for sale. Assets and liabilities related to a business classified as held for sale are segregated in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet in the period in which the business is classified as held for sale.   

  At
December 31, 2012, held-for-sale assets and liabilities consisted of ILFC.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
228  

Table of Contents   

   The following table summarizes the components of assets and liabilities held-for-sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31,
2012:   

Discontinued Operations

We report the results of operations of a business as discontinued operations if the business is classified as held for sale, the operations and cash flows of the business
have been or will be eliminated from our ongoing operations as a result of a disposal transaction and we will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the business after
the disposal transaction. The results of discontinued operations are reported in Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for current and prior periods commencing in the
period in which the business meets the criteria of a discontinued operation, and include any gain or loss recognized on closing or adjustment of the carrying amount to fair value less cost to sell.   

The
results of operations for the following businesses are presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.   

International Lease Finance Corporation Sale

On December 9, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement with Jumbo Acquisition Limited for the sale of 80.1 percent of the common stock of ILFC for
approximately $4.2 billion in cash. Jumbo Acquisition Limited may elect to purchase an additional 9.9 percent of the common stock of ILFC for $522.5 million (the Option) by the
later of March 15, 2013 and ten days after approval of the ILFC Transaction and the Option by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. We will retain a 19.9 percent
ownership interest in ILFC, or a 10.0 percent ownership interest in ILFC, if the Option is exercised by Jumbo Acquisition Limited, in each case subject to dilution for management issuances
(which, over time, would reduce our ownership interest by approximately one percentage point). The transaction is subject to required regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We
determined ILFC met the criteria at December 31, 2012 for held for sale and discontinued operations accounting and, consequently, we recorded a $4.4 billion after tax loss for the year
ended December 31, 2012, which is reported in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. At the closing of the transaction, AIG will return
$1.1 billion to ILFC in connection with the termination of intercompany arrangements between AIG and ILFC.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
229  

Table of Contents   

Nan Shan Sale

On January 12, 2011, we entered into an agreement to sell our 97.57 percent interest in Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) to a
Taiwan-based consortium. The transaction was consummated on August 18, 2011 for net proceeds of $2.15 billion in cash. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $1.0 billion for
the year ended December 31, 2011 largely offsetting Nan Shan operating results for the period, which is reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. The net proceeds from the transaction were used to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's preferred interests (AIA SPV Preferred Interests) in
the special purpose vehicle holding the proceeds of the AIA initial public offering (the AIA SPV).   

AIG Star and AIG Edison Sale

On September 30, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with Prudential Financial, Inc. for the sale of our Japan-based insurance subsidiaries, AIG Star
and AIG Edison, for total consideration of $4.8 billion, including the assumption of certain outstanding debt totaling $0.6 billion owed by AIG Star and AIG Edison. The transaction
closed on February 1, 2011 and we recognized a pre-tax gain of $3.5 billion on the sale that is reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations. In connection with the sale, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2010.   

AGF Sale

On August 10, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell an 80 percent economic interest (84 percent voting interest) in AGF for
$125 million. The AGF sale closed on November 30, 2010. Our voting ownership interest in AGF was reduced to approximately 16 percent, and we do not otherwise have significant
continuing involvement with or significant continuing cash flows from AGF. We are carrying our retained investment in AGF of approximately $30 million as a cost method investment in Other
invested assets. As a result of this transaction, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $1.7 billion in 2010. The components of the $1.7 billion charge consisted of the difference
between (i) the sum of the fair value of the agreed consideration and our retained 20 percent economic interest and (ii) the net book value of the assets.   

ALICO Sale

On March 7, 2010, AIG and the special purpose vehicle holding the proceeds of the sale of ALICO (ALICO SPV) entered into a definitive agreement with MetLife for the
sale of ALICO by the ALICO SPV to MetLife, and the sale of Delaware American Life Insurance Company by AIG to MetLife, for consideration then valued at approximately $15.5 billion, consisting
of $6.8 billion in cash and the remainder in equity securities of MetLife, subject to closing adjustments. The ALICO sale closed on November 1, 2010. We do not have any significant
continuing involvement with or significant continuing cash flows from ALICO. The fair value of the consideration at closing was approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2010, a total
of $6.5 billion was included in common and preferred stock trading.   

  On
the closing date, as consideration for the ALICO sale, the ALICO SPV received net cash consideration of $7.2 billion (which included an upward price adjustment of approximately
$400 million pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement), 78,239,712 shares of MetLife common stock, 6,857,000 shares of newly issued MetLife participating preferred stock
convertible into 68,570,000 shares of MetLife common stock upon the approval of MetLife shareholders and 40,000,000 equity units of MetLife with an aggregate stated value of $3.2 billion. AIG
recorded a pre-tax gain of $7.9 billion on the transaction in 2010.   

  As
part of the Recapitalization, we used approximately $6.1 billion of the cash proceeds from the ALICO sale to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests.   

  ALICO,
Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison previously were components of the Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services reportable segment and AGF previously was a component of the Financial
Services reportable segment. Results from discontinued operations for 2011 and 2010 include the results of Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison through the date of disposition. Results from discontinued
operations for 2010 also include the results of ALICO and AGF, which were sold during 2010. The results also include adjustments for guarantees and indemnifications related to these sold businesses.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
230  

Table of Contents   

  See
Note 16 herein for a discussion of guarantees and indemnifications associated with sales of businesses.   

  Certain
other sales completed during 2011 and 2010 were not classified as discontinued operations because we continued to generate significant direct revenue-producing or cost-generating
cash flows from the businesses or because associated assets, liabilities and results of operations were not material, individually or in the aggregate, to our consolidated financial position or
results of operations.   

   The following table summarizes income (loss) from discontinued operations:   

*        In
2010, includes goodwill impairment charges of $3.3 billion related to the sale of ALICO and $1.3 billion related to the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison. In 2012,
includes goodwill impairment charges of $23 million related to the ILFC Transaction. See Note 2   Goodwill herein for further discussion.   

Interest Expense Allocation

Interest expense allocated to discontinued operations gives effect to the provisions of the Recapitalization discussed in Note 25 for all periods presented. For this
reason, an interest allocation to discontinued operations related to a portion of the ALICO and all the AGF proceeds was required.   

The
interest expense allocated to discontinued operations was based on the anticipated net proceeds that would be applied toward the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility from the sales of ALICO and
AGF multiplied by the daily interest rate on the FRBNY Credit Facility for each respective period. The periodic amortization of the prepaid commitment fee allocated to discontinued operations was
determined based on the ratio of funds committed to repay the FRBNY Credit Facility to the total amount of credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

  Prior
to the Recapitalization, the terms of the FRBNY Credit Facility contractually required net proceeds from dispositions, after taxes and transaction expenses, to the extent such proceeds did not
represent capital of AIG's insurance subsidiaries required for regulatory or ratings purposes, to be applied toward the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility as mandatory prepayments unless otherwise
agreed with the FRBNY. Mandatory prepayments reduced the amount available to be borrowed under the FRBNY Credit Facility by the amount of the prepayment. In conjunction with anticipated prepayments,
AIG allocated interest expense, including periodic amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset, to Income (loss) from discontinued operations. As a result of the revised terms for repayment of
the FRBNY Credit Facility, interest expense that was previously allocated to discontinued operations in connection with the sales of AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan was reclassified to continuing
operations for all periods presented.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
231  

Table of Contents   

5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

On March 31, 2010, through an AIG Property Casualty subsidiary, we purchased additional voting shares in Fuji, a publicly traded Japanese insurance company with
property/casualty insurance operations and a life insurance subsidiary. The acquisition of the additional voting shares for $145 million increased AIG Property Casualty' total voting ownership
interest in Fuji from 41.7 percent to 54.8 percent, which resulted in AIG Property Casualty obtaining control of Fuji. In connection with the acquisition, we recognized a bargain
purchase gain of $332 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. The bargain purchase gain was primarily attributable to the depressed
market value of Fuji's common stock, which we believe was the result of macroeconomic, capital market and regulatory factors in Japan coupled with Fuji's financial condition and results of operations.
The acquisition was consistent with AIG Property Casualty's desire to increase its share in the substantial Japanese insurance market and to achieve cost savings from synergies.   

  In
March 2011, AIG Property Casualty completed the acquisition of approximately 305 million shares of Fuji tendered in response to a public offer at an offer price of 146 Yen per share ($1.76
per share) for a purchase price of $538 million. In August 2011, AIG Property Casualty acquired the remaining outstanding voting shares of Fuji. As a result of these actions, AIG Property
Casualty now owns 100 percent of Fuji.   

  The
2011 purchases were accounted for as equity transactions because we previously consolidated Fuji due to our controlling interest. Accordingly, the difference between the fair value of the total
consideration paid of $560 million and the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest acquired of $489 million was recognized as a reduction of our equity in Fuji. There was no gain
or loss recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
232  

Table of Contents   

6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis

We carry certain of our financial instruments at fair value. We define the fair value of a financial instrument as the amount that would be received from the sale of an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We are responsible for the determination of the value of the investments carried at
fair value and the supporting methodologies and assumptions.   

  The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally inversely correlates with the level of observable valuation inputs. We maximize the use of observable inputs
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in
measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments for which no quoted prices are available have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing
techniques that require more judgment. Pricing observability is affected by a number of
factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction, liquidity and
general market conditions.   

Fair Value Hierarchy

Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are measured and classified in accordance with a fair value hierarchy consisting of three
"levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair values as discussed below:   

Level 1:     Fair value
measurements that are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that we have the ability to access for identical assets or liabilities. Market price data generally is obtained from exchange or
dealer markets. We do not adjust the quoted price for such instruments.     

Level 2:     Fair value
measurements based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted
prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are
observable for the asset or liability, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals.     

Level 3:     Fair value
measurements based on valuation techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable. Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified
in Level 3. The circumstances for using these measurements include those in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. Therefore, we must make certain
assumptions as to the inputs a hypothetical market participant would use to value that asset or liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the
fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is
significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.    

  The
following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments carried at fair value. These methodologies are applied to assets and liabilities across the levels noted above, and
it is the observability of the inputs used that determines the appropriate level in the fair value hierarchy for the respective asset or liability.   

Valuation Methodologies of Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value

Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements

Our Own Credit Risk.     Fair value
measurements for certain liabilities incorporate our own credit risk by determining the explicit cost for each counterparty to protect against its net credit exposure to us at the balance sheet date
by reference to observable AIG CDS or cash bond spreads. A derivative counterparty's net credit exposure to us is determined based on master netting agreements, when applicable, which take into
consideration all derivative positions with us, as well as collateral we post with the counterparty at the balance sheet date. We calculate the effect of these credit spread changes using discounted
cash flow techniques that incorporate current market interest rates.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
233  

Table of Contents   

Counterparty Credit Risk.     Fair
value measurements for freestanding derivatives incorporate counterparty credit by determining the explicit cost for us to protect against our net credit exposure to each counterparty at the balance
sheet date by reference to observable counterparty CDS spreads, when available. When not available, other directly or indirectly observable credit spreads will be used to derive the best estimates of
the counterparty spreads. Our net credit exposure to a counterparty is determined based on master netting agreements, which take into consideration all derivative positions with the counterparty, as
well as collateral posted by the counterparty at the balance sheet date.    

  Fair
values for fixed maturity securities based on observable market prices for identical or similar instruments implicitly incorporate counterparty credit risk. Fair values for fixed maturity
securities based on internal models incorporate counterparty credit risk by using discount rates that take into consideration cash issuance spreads for similar instruments or other observable
information.   

  The
cost of credit protection is determined under a discounted present value approach considering the market levels for single name CDS spreads for each specific counterparty, the mid market value of
the net exposure (reflecting the amount of protection required) and the weighted average life of the net exposure. CDS spreads are provided to us by an independent third party. We utilize an interest
rate based on the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) curve to derive our discount rates.   

  While
this approach does not explicitly consider all potential future behavior of the derivative transactions or potential future changes in valuation inputs, we believe this approach provides a
reasonable estimate of the fair value of the assets and liabilities, including consideration of the impact of non-performance risk.   

Fixed Maturity Securities   Trading and Available for Sale

Whenever available, we obtain quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure fixed maturity securities at fair value in our
trading and available for sale portfolios. Market price data is generally obtained from dealer markets.   

  We
employ independent third-party valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret market information to derive fair value estimates for individual investments, based upon market-accepted
methodologies and assumptions. The methodologies used by these independent third-party valuation services are reviewed and understood by management, through periodic discussion with and information
provided by the valuation services. In addition, as discussed further below, control processes are applied to the fair values received from third-party valuation services to ensure the accuracy of
these values.   

  Valuation
service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of widely accepted valuation methodologies,
which may utilize matrix pricing,
financial models, accompanying model inputs and various assumptions, provide a single fair value measurement for individual securities. The inputs used by the valuation service providers include, but
are not limited to, market prices from completed transactions for identical securities and transactions for comparable securities, benchmark yields, interest rate yield curves, credit spreads,
currency rates, quoted prices for similar securities and other market-observable information, as applicable. If fair value is determined using financial models, these models generally take into
account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued, including its term, interest rate, credit rating,
industry sector, and when applicable, collateral quality and other security or issuer-specific information. When market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the extent to which
judgment is applied in determining fair value is greatly increased.   

  We
have control processes designed to ensure that the fair values received from third party valuation services are accurately recorded, that their data inputs and valuation techniques are appropriate
and consistently applied and that the assumptions used appear reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value. We assess the reasonableness of individual security values
received from valuation service providers through various analytical techniques, and have procedures to escalate related questions internally and to the third party valuation services for resolution.
To assess the degree of pricing consensus among various valuation services for specific asset types, we have conducted comparisons of prices received from available sources. We have used these
comparisons to establish a hierarchy for the fair values received from third party valuation services to be used for particular security classes. We also validate prices for selected securities
through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investing transactions.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
234  

Table of Contents    

  When our third-party valuation service providers are unable to obtain sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate the fair value for a
particular security, fair value is determined either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a price quote, which is generally non-binding, or by
employing widely accepted valuation models. Broker prices may be based on an income approach, which converts expected future cash flows to a single present value amount, with specific consideration of
inputs relevant to particular security types. For structured securities, such inputs may include ratings, collateral types, geographic concentrations, underlying loan vintages, loan delinquencies, and
weighted average coupons and maturities. When the volume or level of market activity for a security is limited, certain inputs used to determine fair value may not be observable in the market. Broker
prices may also be based on a market approach that considers recent transactions involving identical or similar securities. Fair values provided by brokers are subject to similar control processes to
those noted above for fair values from third party valuation services, including management reviews. For those corporate debt instruments (for example, private placements) that are not traded in
active markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on available
market evidence. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on discounted cash flow models using discount rates based on credit spreads, yields or price levels
of comparable securities, adjusted for illiquidity and structure. Fair values determined internally are also subject to management review to ensure that valuation models and related inputs are
reasonable.   

  The
methodology above is relevant for all fixed maturity securities including residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS), CDOs, other asset-backed
securities (ABS) and fixed maturity securities issued by government sponsored entities and corporate entities.   

Equity Securities Traded in Active Markets   Trading and Available for Sale

Whenever available, we obtain quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair value marketable equity securities in our
trading and available for sale portfolios or in Other invested assets. Market price data is generally obtained from exchange or dealer markets.   

Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable

We estimate the fair value of mortgage and other loans receivable that are measured at fair value by using dealer quotations, discounted cash flow analyses and/or internal
valuation models. The determination of fair value considers inputs such as interest rate, maturity, the borrower's creditworthiness, collateral, subordination, guarantees, past-due status,
yield curves, credit curves, prepayment rates, market pricing for comparable loans and other relevant factors.   

Other Invested Assets

We initially estimate the fair value of investments in certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships by reference to the transaction price.
Subsequently, we generally obtain the fair value of these investments from net asset value information provided by the general partner or manager of the investments, the financial statements of which
are generally audited annually. We consider observable market data and perform certain control procedures to validate the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement. The
fair values of other investments carried at fair value, such as direct private equity holdings, are initially determined based on transaction price and are subsequently estimated based on available
evidence such as market transactions in similar instruments and other financing transactions of the issuer, with adjustments made to reflect illiquidity as appropriate.   

Short-term Investments

For short-term investments that are measured at fair value, the carrying values of these assets approximate fair values because of the relatively short period of
time between origination and expected realization, and their limited exposure to credit risk. Securities purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements) are generally treated as
collateralized receivables. We report certain receivables arising from securities purchased under agreements to resell as Short-term investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We use
market-observable   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
235  

Table of Contents   

  interest
rates for receivables measured at fair value. This methodology considers such factors as the coupon rate and yield curves.   

Separate Account Assets

Separate account assets are composed primarily of registered and unregistered open-end mutual funds that generally trade daily and are measured at fair value in
the manner discussed above for equity securities traded in active markets.   

Freestanding Derivatives

Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or traded over-the-counter (OTC). We generally value exchange-traded derivatives such as
futures and options using quoted prices in active markets for identical derivatives at the balance sheet date.   

  OTC
derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or
dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends on the
contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in the instrument, as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. We generally use similar models to value similar instruments.
Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such
inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other
means, and model selection does not involve significant management judgment.   

  For
certain OTC derivatives that trade in less liquid markets, where we generally do not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market
transactions, the transaction price may provide the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so the model value at
inception equals the transaction price. We will update valuation inputs in these models only when corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions, third party pricing services and/or
broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such
adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management's best estimate is used.   

Embedded Policy Derivatives

Certain variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts contain embedded policy derivatives that we bifurcate from the host contracts and account for
separately at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. We have concluded these contracts contain (i) written option guarantees on minimum accumulation value, (ii) a
series of written options that guarantee withdrawals from the highest anniversary value within a specific period or for life, or (iii) equity-indexed written options that meet the criteria of
derivatives that must be bifurcated.   

  The
fair value of embedded policy derivatives contained in certain variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts is measured based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related
to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. These cash flow estimates primarily include benefits and related fees assessed, when applicable, and incorporate expectations about
policyholder behavior. Estimates of future policyholder behavior are subjective and based primarily on our historical experience.   

  With
respect to embedded policy derivatives in our variable annuity contracts, because of the dynamic and complex nature of the expected cash flows, risk neutral valuations are used. Estimating the
underlying cash flows for these products involves judgments regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market index returns to funds, fund performance, discount
rates and policyholder behavior. With respect to embedded policy derivatives in our equity-indexed annuity and life contracts, option pricing models are used to estimate fair value, taking into
account assumptions for future equity index growth rates, volatility of the equity index, future interest   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
236  

Table of Contents   

  rates,
and determinations on adjusting the participation rate and the cap on equity-indexed credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions. These methodologies
incorporate an explicit risk margin to take into consideration market participant estimates of projected cash flows and policyholder behavior.   

  We
also incorporate our own risk of non-performance in the valuation of the embedded policy derivatives associated with variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts.
Historically, the expected cash flows were discounted using the interest rate swap curve (swap curve), which is commonly viewed as being consistent with the credit spreads for highly-rated financial
institutions (S P AA-rated or above). A swap curve shows the fixed-rate leg of a non-complex swap against the floating rate (for example, LIBOR) leg of a related
tenor. The swap curve was adjusted, as necessary, for anomalies between the swap curve and the U.S. Treasury yield curve. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we revised the non-performance
risk adjustment to reflect a market participant's view of AIG Life and Retirement's claims paying ability. As a result, in 2010, we incorporated an additional spread to the swap curve used to value
embedded policy derivatives, thereby reducing the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities by $336 million, which was partially offset by $173 million of DAC amortization.   

Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio

We value CDS transactions written on the super senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or loans using internal valuation models, third-party price
estimates and market indices. The principal market was determined to be the market in which super senior credit default swaps of this type and size would be transacted, or have been transacted, with
the greatest volume or level of activity. We have determined that the principal market participants, therefore, would consist of other large financial institutions who participate in sophisticated
over-the-counter derivatives markets. The specific valuation methodologies vary based on the nature of the referenced obligations and availability of market prices.   

  The
valuation of the super senior credit derivatives is challenging given the limitation on the availability of market observable information due to the lack of trading and price transparency in
certain structured finance markets. These market conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for financial reporting purposes.
Further, disparities in the valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing volatile markets have increased the likelihood
that the various parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly different estimates as to their fair values.   

  Our
valuation methodologies for the super senior credit default swap portfolio have evolved over time in response to market conditions and the availability of market observable information. We have
sought to calibrate the methodologies to available market information and to review the assumptions of the methodologies on a regular basis.   

Regulatory capital portfolio:       In the case of
credit default swaps written to facilitate regulatory capital relief, we estimate the fair value of these derivatives by considering observable market transactions. The transactions with the most
observability are the early terminations of these transactions by counterparties. We continue to reassess the expected maturity of the portfolio. There has been no requirement to make any payments as
part of terminations of super senior regulatory capital CDSs initiated by counterparties. In assessing the fair value of the regulatory capital CDS transactions, we also consider other market data, to
the extent relevant and available.   

Multi-sector CDO portfolios:       We use a
modified version of the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model to value our credit default swap portfolio written on super senior tranches of multi-sector CDOs of ABS. The BET model was developed in
1996 by a major rating agency to generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a credit rating for those tranches, and remains widely used.   

  We
have adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. We modified the BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for the underlying
securities and not from rating agency assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price estimates for the securities comprising the portfolio of a CDO as an input and converts those
estimates to credit spreads over current LIBOR-based interest rates. These credit spreads are used to determine implied probabilities of default and expected losses   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
237  

Table of Contents   

  on
the underlying securities. This data is then aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of the super senior tranche of the CDO.   

  Prices
for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent available. CDO collateral managers provided market prices for
59 percent of the underlying securities used in the valuation at December 31, 2012. When a price for an individual security is not provided by a CDO collateral manager, we derive the
price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used principally to value debt securities without relying
exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the security to other benchmark quoted securities. Substantially all of the CDO collateral
managers who provided prices used dealer prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some cases supplemented by third-party pricing services.   

  The
BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. We employ a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying the effect on the valuation of the CDO
of the unique aspects of the CDO's structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital structure. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to determine whether an
underlying security defaults in a given simulation scenario and, if it
does, the security's implied random default time and expected loss. This information is used to project cash flow streams and to determine the expected losses of the portfolio.   

  In
addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps using our internal model, we also consider the price estimates for the
super senior CDO securities provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to validate the results of the model and to determine the best available estimate of fair value.
In determining the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps, we use a consistent process that considers all available pricing data points and eliminates the
use of outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a reasonable range an averaging technique is applied.   

Corporate debt/Collateralized loan obligation (CLO)
portfolios:       In the case of credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment-grade corporate debt, we use a
mathematical model that produces results that are closely aligned with prices received from third parties. This methodology uses the current market credit spreads of the names in the portfolios along
with the base correlations implied by the current market prices of comparable tranches of the relevant market traded credit indices as inputs.   

  We
estimate the fair value of our obligations resulting from credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par value less the current market value of the referenced obligation.
Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining third-party quotations on the underlying super senior tranches referenced under the credit default swap contract.   

Policyholder Contract Deposits

Policyholder contract deposits accounted for at fair value are measured using an earnings approach by taking into consideration the following
factors:  

Current policyholder account values and related surrender charges;   
           The present value of estimated future cash inflows (policy fees) and outflows (benefits and maintenance expenses)
associated with the product using risk neutral valuations, incorporating expectations about policyholder behavior, market returns and other factors; and    
           A risk margin that market participants would require for a market return and the uncertainty inherent in the model inputs.    

  The
change in fair value of these policyholder contract deposits is recorded as Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
238  

Table of Contents   

Long-Term Debt

The fair value of non-structured liabilities is generally determined by using market prices from exchange or dealer markets, when available, or discounting
expected cash flows using the appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. We determine the fair value of structured liabilities and hybrid financial instruments (where performance is linked
to structured interest rates, inflation or currency risks) using the appropriate derivative valuation methodology (described above) given the nature of the embedded risk profile. In addition,
adjustments are made to the valuations of both non-structured and structured liabilities to reflect our own creditworthiness based on the methodology described under the caption
"Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements   Our Own Credit Risk" above.   

  Borrowings
under obligations of Guaranteed Investment Agreements (GIAs), which are guaranteed by us, are recorded at fair value using discounted cash flow calculations based on interest rates
currently being offered for similar contracts and our current market observable implicit credit spread rates with maturities consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued. Obligations
may be called at various times prior to maturity at the option of the counterparty. Interest rates on these borrowings are primarily fixed, vary by maturity and range up to 9.8 percent.   

Other Liabilities

Other liabilities measured at fair value include certain securities sold under agreements to repurchase and certain securities and spot commodities sold but not yet
purchased. Liabilities arising from securities sold under agreements to repurchase are generally treated as collateralized borrowings. We estimate the fair value of liabilities arising under these
agreements by using market-observable interest rates. This methodology considers such factors as the coupon rate, yield curves and other relevant factors. Fair values for securities sold but not yet
purchased are based on current market prices. Fair values of spot commodities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices of reference spot futures contracts traded on exchanges.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
239  

Table of Contents   

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The following table presents information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and indicates the level of the fair
value measurement based on the observability of the inputs used:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
240  

Table of Contents   

(a)     Represents
netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement.   

  (b)     Represents
cash collateral posted and received. Securities collateral posted for derivative transactions that is reflected in Fixed maturity securities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, and collateral received, not reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, were $1.9 billion and $299 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012 and $1.8 billion and
$100 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011.   

  (c)     Level 1
Other invested assets included $12.4 billion at December 31, 2011 of AIA ordinary shares publicly traded on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.   

  (d)     Level 3
Credit contracts included the fair value derivative liability on the super senior credit default swap portfolio of $2.0 billion and $3.2 billion at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  (e)     Includes
Guaranteed Investment Agreements (GIAs), notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
241  

Table of Contents   

Transfers of Level 1 and Level 2 Assets and Liabilities

Our policy is to record transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent
with the date of the determination of fair value. Assets are transferred out of Level 1 when they are no longer transacted with sufficient frequency and volume in an active market. Conversely,
assets are transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 when transaction volume and frequency are indicative of an active market. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we transferred
$464 million of securities issued by Non-U.S. government entities from Level 1 to Level 2, as they are no longer considered actively traded. For similar reasons,
during the year ended December 31, 2012, we transferred $888 million of securities issued by the U.S. government and government-sponsored entities from Level 1 to Level 2.
We had no material transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 during the year ended December 31, 2012.   

Changes in Level 3 Recurring Fair Value Measurements

The following tables present changes during December 31, 2012 and 2011 in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis, and the realized and unrealized
gains (losses) related to the Level 3 assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2012 and 2011:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
242  

Table of Contents    

(a)     Total
Level 3 derivative exposures have been netted in these tables for presentation purposes only.   

  (b)     Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

Net realized and unrealized gains and losses related to Level 3 items shown above are reported in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations as follows:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
243  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the gross components of purchases, sales, issues and settlements, net, shown above:   

(a)     There
were no issuances during year ended December 31, 2012.   

  (b)     Includes
$7.1 billion of securities purchased through the FRBNY's auction of ML III assets.   

  (c)     Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified in Level 3 in the tables above. As a result, the
unrealized gains (losses) on instruments held at December 31, 2012 and 2011 may include changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable (e.g., changes in market interest
rates) and unobservable inputs (e.g., changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
244  

Table of Contents   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities

We record transfers of assets and liabilities into or out of Level 3 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent with the date of the
determination of fair value. As a result, the Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in income or other comprehensive income and as shown in the table above excludes $143 million
of net losses related to assets and liabilities transferred into Level 3 during 2012, and includes $92 million of net gains related to assets and liabilities transferred out of
Level 3 during 2012.   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets     

  During the year ended December 31, 2012, transfers into Level 3 assets included certain RMBS, CMBS, CDO/ABS, private placement
corporate debt and certain private equity funds and hedge funds. Transfers of certain RMBS and certain CDO/ABS into Level 3 assets were related to decreased observations of market transactions
and price information for those securities. The transfers of investments in certain other RMBS and CMBS into Level 3 assets were due to a decrease in market transparency, downward credit
migration and an overall increase in price disparity for certain individual security types. Transfers of private placement corporate debt and certain other ABS into Level 3 assets were
primarily the result of limited market pricing information that required us to determine fair value for these securities based on inputs that are adjusted to better reflect our own assumptions
regarding the characteristics of a specific security or associated market liquidity. Certain private equity fund and hedge fund investments were also transferred into Level 3 due to these
investments being carried at fair value and no longer being accounted for using the equity method of accounting, consistent with the changes to our ownership and the lack of ability to exercise more
than minor influence over the respective investments. Other hedge fund investments were transferred into Level 3 as a result of limited market activity due to fund-imposed
redemption restrictions.   

  Assets
are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that significant inputs can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market
activity for the asset, a specific event, one or more significant input(s) becoming observable or a long-term interest rate significant to a valuation becoming short-term and
thus observable. In addition, transfers out of Level 3 assets also occur when investments are no longer carried at fair value as the result of a change in the applicable accounting methodology,
given changes in the nature and extent of our ownership interest. During the year ended December 31, 2012, transfers out of Level 3 assets primarily related to certain RMBS, CMBS, ABS,
investments in private
placement corporate debt and private equity funds and hedge funds. Transfers of certain RMBS out of Level 3 assets were based on consideration of the market liquidity as well as related
transparency of pricing and associated observable inputs for these investments. Transfers of investments in certain CMBS out of Level 3 were due to an increase in market transparency, positive
credit migration and an overall improvement in price comparability for certain individual security types. Transfers of ABS and private placement corporate debt out of Level 3 assets were
primarily the result of using observable pricing information that reflects the fair value of those securities without the need for adjustment based on our own assumptions regarding the characteristics
of a specific security or the current liquidity in the market. The removal of fund-imposed redemption restrictions, as well as certain fund investments becoming subject to the equity
method of accounting based on our level of influence over the respective investments, resulted in the transfer of certain hedge fund and private equity fund investments out of Level 3.   

Transfers of Level 3 Liabilities     

  Because we present carrying values of our derivative positions on a net basis in the table above, transfers into Level 3 liabilities for the
year ended December 31, 2012 primarily related to certain derivative assets transferred out of Level 3 because of the presence of observable inputs on certain forward commitments and
options. During the year ended December 31, 2012, certain notes payable were transferred out of Level 3 liabilities because input parameters for the pricing of these liabilities became
more observable as a result of market movements and portfolio aging. There were no significant transfers of derivative liabilities out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

  We
use various hedging techniques to manage risks associated with certain positions, including those classified within Level 3. Such techniques may include the purchase or sale of financial
instruments that are classified within Level 1 and/or Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains (losses) for assets and liabilities classified within Level 3
presented in the table above do not reflect the related realized or unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that are classified within Level 1 and/or Level 2.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
245  

Table of Contents   

Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements

The table below presents information about the significant unobservable inputs used for recurring fair value measurements for certain Level 3
instruments, and includes only those instruments for which information about the inputs is reasonably available to us, such as data from pricing vendors and from internal valuation models. Because
input information with respect to certain Level 3 instruments may not be reasonably available to us, balances shown below may not equal total amounts reported for such Level 3 assets and
liabilities:   

(a)     The
unobservable inputs and ranges for the constant prepayment rate, loss severity and constant default rate relate to each of the individual underlying mortgage loans that comprise
the entire portfolio of securities in the RMBS and CDO securitization vehicles and not necessarily to the securitization vehicle bonds (tranches) purchased by us. The ranges of these inputs do not
directly correlate to changes in the fair values of the tranches purchased by us because there are other factors relevant to the specific tranches owned by us including, but not limited to, purchase
price, position in the waterfall, senior versus subordinated position and attachment points.   

  (b)     Represents
discount rates, estimates and assumptions that we believe would be used by market participants when valuing these assets and liabilities.   

  (c)     Information
received from independent third-party valuation service providers.   

  (d)     Yield
was the only input available for $6.6 billion of total fair value at December 31, 2012.   

The ranges of reported inputs for Corporate debt, RMBS, CDO/ABS, and CMBS valued using a discounted cash flow technique consist of plus/minus one standard
deviation in either direction from the value-weighted average. The preceding table does not give effect to our risk management practices that might offset risks inherent in these investments.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
246  

Table of Contents    

Sensitivity to Changes in Unobservable Inputs

We
consider unobservable inputs to be those for which market data is not available and that are developed using the best information available to us about the assumptions that market participants
would use when pricing the asset or liability. Relevant inputs vary depending on the nature of the instrument being measured at fair value. The following is a general description of sensitivities of
significant unobservable inputs along with interrelationships between and among the significant unobservable inputs and their impact on the fair value measurements. The effect of a change in a
particular assumption in the sensitivity analysis below is considered independently of changes in any other assumptions. In practice, simultaneous changes in assumptions may not always have a linear
effect on the inputs discussed below. Interrelationships may also exist between observable and unobservable inputs. Such relationships have not been included in the discussion below. For each of the
individual relationships described below, the inverse relationship would also generally apply.   

Corporate Debt

Corporate debt securities included in Level 3 are primarily private placement issuances that are not traded in active markets or that are subject to transfer
restrictions. Fair value measurements consider illiquidity and non-transferability. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on discounted cash
flow models using discount rates based on credit spreads, yields or price levels of publicly-traded debt of the issuer or other comparable securities, considering illiquidity and structure. The
significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of corporate debt is the yield. The yield is affected by the market movements in credit spreads and U.S. Treasury yields. In addition,
the migration in credit quality of a given security generally has a corresponding effect on the fair value measurement of the securities. For example, a downward migration of credit quality would
increase spreads. Holding U.S. Treasury rates constant, an increase in corporate credit spreads would decrease the fair value of corporate debt.   

RMBS and Certain CDO/ABS

The significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurements of RMBS and certain CDO/ABS valued by third-party valuation service providers are constant prepayment
rates (CPR), constant default rates (CDR), loss severity, and yield. A change in the assumptions used for the probability of default will generally be accompanied by a corresponding change in the
assumption used for the loss severity and an inverse change in the assumption used for prepayment rates. In general, increases in yield, CPR, CDR, and loss severity, in isolation, would result in a
decrease in the fair value measurement. Changes in fair value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the directional change of each input
is not usually linear.   

CMBS

The significant unobservable input used in fair value measurements for CMBS is the yield. Prepayment assumptions for each mortgage pool are factored into the yield. CMBS
generally feature a lower degree of prepayment risk than RMBS because commercial mortgages generally contain a penalty for prepayment. In general, increases in the yield would decrease the fair value
of CMBS.   

CDO/ABS   Direct Investment book

The significant unobservable inputs used for certain CDO/ABS securities valued using the BET are recovery rates, diversity score, and the weighted average life of the
portfolio. An increase in recovery rates and diversity score will have a directionally similar corresponding impact on the fair value of the portfolio. An increase in the weighted average life will
decrease the fair value.   

Policyholder contract deposits

The significant unobservable inputs used for embedded derivatives in policyholder contract deposits measured at fair value, mainly guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits
(GMWB) for variable annuity products, are equity volatility, mortality rates, lapse rates and utilization rates. Mortality, lapse and utilization rates may vary significantly depending   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
247  

Table of Contents   

  upon
age groups and duration. In general, increases in volatility and utilization rates will increase the fair value, while increases in lapse rates and mortality rates will decrease the fair value of
the liability associated with the GMWB.   

Derivative liabilities   credit contracts

The significant unobservable inputs used for Derivatives liabilities   credit contracts are recovery rates, diversity scores, and the weighted average
life of the portfolio. AIG non-performance risk is also considered in the measurement of the liability.   

An
increase in recovery rates and diversity score will decrease the fair value of the liability. An increase in the weighted average life will have a directionally similar corresponding effect on the
fair value measurement of the liability.   

Investments in Certain Entities Carried at Fair Value Using Net Asset Value per Share

The following table includes information related to our investments in certain other invested assets, including private equity funds, hedge funds and
other alternative investments that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent). For these investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we use the net asset value per
share as a practical expedient to measure fair value.   

December 31, 2012   

December 31, 2011  

(in millions)

Investment Category Includes   
     
  Fair Value Using 
Net Asset Value 
Per Share 
(or its equivalent)   
     
  Unfunded 
Commitments   
     
  Fair Value Using 
Net Asset Value 
Per Share 
(or its equivalent)   
     
  Unfunded 
Commitments   

Investment Category   

Private equity funds:   

Leveraged buyout  
     
   Debt and/or equity investments made as part of a transaction in which assets of mature companies are acquired from the current shareholders, typically with the use of financial leverage  

$   
   2,549   

$   
   659   
     
  $  
  3,185  
     
   $  
  945  

Non-U.S.  
     
       Investments that focus primarily on Asian and European based buyouts, expansion capital, special situations,
turnarounds, venture capital, mezzanine and distressed opportunities strategies  

179   

25   

165  

57  

Venture capital  
     
       Early-stage, high-potential, growth companies expected to generate a return through an eventual realization event,
 such as an initial public offering or sale of the company  

163   

16   

316  

39  

Distressed  
     
       Securities of companies that are already in default, under bankruptcy protection, or troubled  

87   

21   

182  

42  

Other  
     
       Real estate, energy, multi-strategy, mezzanine, and industry-focused strategies  

255   

152   

252  

98  

Total private equity funds  

3,233   

873   

4,100  

1,181  

Hedge funds:   

Event-driven  
     
   Securities of companies undergoing material structural changes, including mergers, acquisitions and other reorganizations  

747   

2   

774  

2  

Long-short  
     
       Securities that the manager believes are undervalued, with corresponding short positions to hedge market
risk  

1,091   

927  

Macro  
     
       Investments that take long and short positions in financial instruments based on a top-down view of certain
economic and capital market conditions  

238   

173  

Distressed  
     
       Securities of companies that are already in default, under bankruptcy protection or troubled  

316   

272  

10  

Other  
     
       Non-U.S. companies, futures and commodities, relative value, and multi-strategy and industry-focused
strategies  

416   

627  

Total hedge funds  

2,808   

2   

2,773  

12  

Total  

$   
   6,041   

$   
   875   
     
  $  
  6,873  
     
   $  
  1,193  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
248  

Table of Contents   

  Private equity fund investments included above are not redeemable, as distributions from the funds will be received when underlying investments of the funds are
liquidated. Private equity funds are generally expected to have 10-year lives at their inception, but these lives may be extended at the fund manager's discretion, typically in one or
two-year increments. At December 31, 2012, assuming average original expected lives of 10 years for the funds, 41 percent of the total fair value using net asset value
or its equivalent above would have expected remaining lives of less than three years, 56 percent between three and seven years and 3 percent between seven and 10 years.   

At
December 31, 2012, hedge fund investments included above are redeemable monthly (15 percent), quarterly (34 percent), semi-annually (28 percent) and annually
(23 percent), with redemption notices ranging from one day to 180 days. More than 69 percent of these hedge fund investments require redemption notices of less than
90 days. Investments representing approximately 74 percent of the value of the hedge fund investments cannot be redeemed, either in whole or in part, because the investments include
various restrictions. The majority of these restrictions have pre-defined end dates and are generally expected to be lifted by the end of 2015. The restrictions that do not have stated end
dates were primarily put in place prior to 2009. The partial restrictions relate to certain hedge funds that hold at least one investment that the fund manager deems to be illiquid.   

Fair Value Option

Under the fair value option, we may elect to measure at fair value financial assets and financial liabilities that are not otherwise required to be carried at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value for designated items are reported in earnings. We elect the fair value option for certain hybrid securities given the complexity of bifurcating the economic components
associated with the embedded derivatives. Refer to Note 12 for additional information related to embedded derivatives.   

  Additionally,
beginning in the third quarter of 2012 we elected the fair value option for investments in certain private equity funds, hedge funds and other alternative investments when such
investments are eligible for this election. We believe this measurement basis is consistent with the applicable accounting guidance used by the respective investment company funds themselves. Refer to
Note 7 herein for additional information.   

   The following table presents the gains or losses recorded related to the eligible instruments for which we elected the fair value option:   

(a)     Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

  (b)     Excludes
discontinued operation gains or losses on instruments that were required to be carried at fair value. For instruments required to be carried at fair value, we recognized
gains of $586 million, $1.3 billion and $4.9 billion for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, that were primarily due to changes in the fair value of derivatives,
trading securities and certain other invested assets for which the fair value option was not elected.   

  Interest income and dividend income on assets elected under the fair value option are recognized and included in Net Investment Income in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations with the exception of DIB-related activity, which is included in Other income. Interest on liabilities for which we elected the fair value option is recognized in
interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 7 herein for additional information about our policies for recognition, measurement, and disclosure of interest and
dividend income and interest expense.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
249  

Table of Contents    

  During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recognized losses of $641 million, gains of $420 million and losses of $779 million, respectively,
attributable to the observable effect of changes in credit spreads on our own liabilities for which the fair value option was elected. We calculate the effect of these credit spread changes using
discounted cash flow techniques that incorporate current market interest rates, our observable credit spreads on these liabilities and other factors that mitigate the risk of nonperformance such as
cash collateral posted.   

   The following table presents the difference between fair values and the aggregate contractual principal amounts of mortgage and other loans receivable and long-term
borrowings for which the fair value option was elected:   

*         Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

There were no mortgage or other loans receivable for which the fair value option was elected that were 90 days or more past due or in
non-accrual status at December 31, 2012 and 2011.   

Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis

We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally quarterly, annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. These assets include cost and equity-method investments, life settlement contracts, collateral securing foreclosed loans and real estate and other
fixed assets, goodwill and other intangible assets. See Note 7 herein for additional information about how we test various asset classes for impairment.   

The following table presents assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at the time of impairment and the related impairment charges recorded during the
periods presented:   

(a)     See
Note 4 for a discussion on the ILFC Transaction.   

  (b)     Fair
value of Aircraft includes aircraft impairment charges.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
250  

Table of Contents   

Fair Value Information about Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value

Information regarding the estimation of fair value for financial instruments not carried at fair value (excluding insurance contracts and lease contracts) is discussed
below:   

Mortgage and other loans
receivable:     Fair values of loans on real estate and other loans receivable were estimated for disclosure
purposes using discounted cash flow calculations based upon discount rates that we believe market participants would use in determining the price that they would pay for such assets. For certain
loans, our current incremental lending rates for similar types of loans is used as the discount rate, as we believe that this rate approximates the rates that market participants would use. The fair
values of policy loans are generally estimated based on unpaid principal amount as of each reporting date or, in some cases, based on the present value of the loans using a discounted cash flow model.
No consideration is given to credit risk as policy loans are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the policies.     

Other Invested Assets:     The
majority of Other invested assets that are not measured at fair value represent investments in life settlement contracts. The fair value of life settlement contracts included in Other invested assets
is determined on a discounted cash flow basis, incorporating current life expectancy assumptions.     

Cash and short-term
investments:     The carrying values of these assets approximate fair values because of the relatively short
period of time between origination and expected realization, and their limited exposure to credit risk.     

Policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type
contracts:     Fair values for policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type
contracts not accounted for at fair value were estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based upon interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with
those remaining for the contracts being valued. Where no similar contracts are being offered, the discount rate is the appropriate tenor swap rate (if available) or current risk-free
interest rate consistent with the currency in which the cash flows are denominated.     

Long-term debt:     Fair
values of these obligations were determined by reference to quoted market prices, where available and appropriate, or discounted cash flow calculations based upon our current market-observable
implicit-credit-spread rates for similar types of borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt being valued.    

The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of our financial instruments not measured at fair value and indicates the level of the estimated fair
value measurement based on the observability of the inputs used:   

* Excludes Long-term debt of ILFC reclassed to Liabilities held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
251  

Table of Contents   

7. INVESTMENTS

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities

Bonds held to maturity are carried at amortized cost when we have the ability and positive intent to hold these securities until maturity. When we do not have the ability or
positive intent to hold bonds until maturity, these securities are classified as available for sale or as trading and are carried at fair value. None of our fixed maturity securities met the criteria
for held to maturity classification at December 31, 2012 or 2011.   

  Fixed
maturity and equity securities classified as available for sale or as trading are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses from available for sale investments in fixed maturity and
equity securities are reported as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income taxes, in Total AIG shareholders' equity.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading are reflected in Net investment income (for insurance subsidiaries)
or Other income (for DIB). Investments in fixed maturity and equity securities are recorded on a trade-date basis.   

Premiums
and discounts arising from the purchase of bonds classified as available for sale are treated as yield adjustments over their estimated holding periods, until maturity, or call date, if
applicable. For investments in certain RMBS, CMBS and CDO/ABS, (collectively, structured securities), recognized yields are updated based on current information regarding the timing and amount of
expected undiscounted future cash flows. For high credit quality structured securities, effective yields are recalculated based on actual payments received and updated prepayment expectations, and the
amortized cost is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since acquisition with a corresponding charge or credit to net investment income. For
structured securities that are not high credit quality, effective yields are recalculated and adjusted prospectively based on changes in expected undiscounted future cash flows. For purchased credit
impaired (PCI) securities, at acquisition, the difference between the undiscounted expected future cash flows and the recorded investment in the securities represents the initial accretable yield,
which is to be accreted into net investment income over the securities' remaining lives on a level-yield basis. Subsequently, effective yields recognized on PCI securities are recalculated and
adjusted prospectively to reflect changes in the contractual benchmark interest rates on variable rate securities and any significant increases in undiscounted expected future cash flows arising due
to reasons other than interest rate changes.   

  Trading
securities include the investment portfolio of the DIB. Trading securities for the DIB are held to meet short-term investment objectives and to economically hedge other securities.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
252  

Table of Contents   

Securities Available for Sale

The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of our available for sale securities:   

(a)     Represents
the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Amount includes unrealized gains and
losses on impaired securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date.   

  (b)     At
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, bonds available for sale held by us that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $29.6 billion and
$24.2 billion, respectively.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
253  

Table of Contents    

Securities Available for Sale in a Loss Position

The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses on our available for sale securities, aggregated by major investment
category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:   

At December 31, 2012, we held 3,637 and 198 individual fixed maturity and equity securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position, of
which 1,385 individual fixed maturity securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for longer than 12 months. We did not recognize the unrealized losses in earnings on these fixed
maturity securities at December 31, 2012, because we neither intend to sell the securities nor do we believe that it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell these securities
before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Furthermore, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. In performing this evaluation, we considered the recovery periods
for securities in previous periods of broad market declines. For fixed maturity securities with significant declines, we performed fundamental credit analysis on a
security-by-security basis, which included consideration of credit enhancements, expected defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry analyst reports and
forecasts and other available market data.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
254  

Table of Contents   

Contractual Maturities of Securities Available for Sale

The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale by contractual
maturity:   

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations with or without call or
prepayment penalties.   

   The following table presents the gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales or redemptions of our available for sale securities:   

For the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate fair value of available for sale securities sold was $40.3 billion,
$44.0 billion and $56.0 billion, which resulted in net realized capital gains of $3.1 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively.   

Trading Securities

The following table presents the fair value of our trading securities:   

* Includes $0.9 billion of U.S. Government agency backed ABS.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
255  

Table of Contents    

Maiden Lane III

The FRBNY completed the liquidation of ML III assets during the third quarter of 2012 and substantially all of the sales proceeds have been distributed in accordance with
the priority of payments of the
transaction. In 2012, we received total payments of approximately $8.5 billion, which included contractual and additional distributions and our original $5.0 billion equity interest in
ML III.   

  In
2012, we purchased $7.1 billion of securities through the FRBNY's auction of ML III assets.   

Other Invested Assets

The following table summarizes the carrying values of other invested assets:   

(a)     Includes
hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships.   

  (b)     Net
of accumulated depreciation of $469 million and $428 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  (c)     Consist
primarily of AIG Life and Retirement investments in aircraft equipment held in trusts.   

Other Invested Assets Carried at Fair Value

Certain hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships for which we have elected the fair value option are reported at
fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Net investment income with the exception of DIB investments, for which such changes are reported in Other income. Other investments in hedge funds,
private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships in which our insurance operations do not hold aggregate interests sufficient to exercise more than minor
influence over the respective partnerships are reported at fair value with changes in fair value recognized as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These investments are
subject to other-than-temporary impairment evaluation (see below for discussion on evaluating equity investments for other-than-temporary impairment).
The gross unrealized loss recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income on such investments was $68 million and $269 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, the
majority of which pertains to investments in private equity funds and hedge funds that have been in continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months.   

Other Invested Assets   Equity Method Investments

We account for hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships using the equity method of accounting unless our interest
is so minor that we may have virtually no influence over partnership operating and financial policies. Under the equity method of accounting, our carrying value generally is our share of the net asset
value of the funds or the partnerships, and changes in our share of the net asset values are recorded in Net investment income with the exception of DIB investments, for which such changes are
reported in Other income. In applying the equity method of accounting, we consistently use the most recently available financial information provided by the general partner or manager of each of these
investments, which is one to three months prior to the end of our reporting period. The financial statements of these investees are generally audited annually.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
256  

Table of Contents   

  Direct
private equity investments entered into for strategic purposes and not solely for capital appreciation or for income generation are also accounted for under the equity method. Dividends
received from our other strategic investments were $8 million, $17 million and $25 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The
undistributed earnings of other strategic investments in which our ownership interest is less than 50 percent were $51 million, $9 million and $8 million at
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.   

  On
October 29, 2010, we completed an IPO of 8.08 billion ordinary shares of AIA for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $20.5 billion. Upon completion of the IPO, we owned
33 percent of AIA's outstanding shares. Accordingly, we deconsolidated AIA and recorded a pre-tax gain of $16.3 billion in 2010. On March 7, 2012, we sold
approximately 1.72 billion ordinary shares of AIA for gross proceeds of approximately $6.0 billion. On September 11, 2012, we sold approximately 600 million ordinary shares
of AIA for gross proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion. On December 20, 2012, we sold approximately 1.65 billion ordinary shares of AIA for gross proceeds of approximately
$6.5 billion. As a result of these sales, we retained no interest in AIA as of December 31, 2012. We accounted for our investment in AIA under the fair value option with gains and losses
recorded in Net investment income. We recorded fair value option gains from our investment in AIA of $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011,
and a fair value option loss of $0.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our 33 percent retained interest in AIA was
approximately $12.4 billion, and was included in Other invested assets.   

   The following table presents the carrying value and ownership percentage of AIA and all other equity method investments:   

Summarized Financial Information of AIA

The following is summarized financial information of AIA:     

Substantially all of AIA's assets consist of financial investments and deferred acquisition and origination costs and substantially all of its liabilities
consist of insurance- and investment-contract-related liabilities.   

  Summarized
financial information for AIA was as of and for the year ended 2011. AIA was consolidated through October 28, 2010. As a result, comparable amounts for 2010 are not being presented.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
257  

Table of Contents   

Summarized Financial Information of Other Equity Method Investees

The following is the aggregated summarized financial information of our other equity method investees, including those for which the fair value
option has been elected:   

Summarized financial information for these equity method investees may be presented on a lag, due to the unavailability of information for the investees at the
respective balance sheet date, and is included for the periods in which we held an equity method ownership interest. Summarized financial information for investees of entities that have been divested
or are held-for-sale is not included in the table above.   

Other Investments

Also included in Other invested assets are real estate held for investment and aircraft asset investments held by non-Aircraft Leasing subsidiaries. These
investments are reported at cost, less depreciation and subject to impairment review, as discussed below.   

Investments in Life Settlement Contracts

Life settlement contracts are accounted for under the investment method. Under the investment method, we recognize our initial investment in life settlement contracts at the
transaction price plus all initial direct external costs. Continuing costs to keep the policy in force, primarily life insurance premiums, increase the carrying value of the investment. We recognize
income on individual life settlement contracts when the insured dies, at an amount equal to the excess of the contract proceeds over the carrying amount of the contract at that time. Contracts are
reviewed for indications that the expected future proceeds from the contract would not be sufficient to recover our estimated future carrying amount of the contract, which is the current carrying
amount for the contract plus anticipated undiscounted future premiums and other capitalizable future costs. Any such contracts identified are written down to their estimated fair value.   

  During
2012, 2011 and 2010, income recognized on life settlement contracts was $253 million, $320 million and $213 million, respectively, and is included in Net investment income
in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Our life settlement contracts reported above are monitored for impairment on a contract-by-contract basis quarterly. Impairment
charges on life settlement contracts included in net realized capital gains (losses) totaled $309 million, $312 million and $74 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010 respectively.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
258  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents further information regarding life settlement contracts:     

At December 31, 2012, the anticipated life insurance premiums required to keep the life settlement contracts in force, payable in the next
12 months ending December 31, 2013 and the four succeeding years ending December 31, 2017 are $546 million, $555 million, $562 million, $554 million
and $555 million, respectively.   

Net Investment Income

Net investment income represents income primarily from the following sources in our insurance operations and AIG Parent:  

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes
in the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.   
           Dividend income from common and preferred stock and distributions from other investments.    
           Realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments in trading securities accounted for at fair value and
investments for which the fair value option has been elected.   
           Earnings from private equity funds and hedge fund investments accounted for under the equity method.    
           The difference between the carrying amount of a life settlement contract and the life insurance proceeds of the underlying
life insurance policy recorded in income upon the death of the insured.   
           Changes in the fair values of our interests in ML II, AIA and MetLife securities prior to sale and change in the fair
value of our interests in ML III prior to the FRBNY liquidation of ML III assets.    

   The following table presents the components of Net investment income:     

* Includes hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
259  

Table of Contents   

Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses

Net realized capital gains and losses are determined by specific identification. The net realized capital gains and losses are generated primarily from the following
sources:  

Sales of fixed maturity securities and equity securities (except trading securities accounted for at fair value and
investments for which the fair value option has been elected), real estate, investments in private equity funds and hedge funds and other types of investments.    
           Reductions to the cost basis of fixed maturity securities and equity securities (except trading securities accounted for
at fair value and investments for which the fair value option has been elected) and other invested assets for other-than-temporary impairments.   
           Changes in fair value of derivatives except for (1) those instruments at AIGFP that are not intermediated on behalf
of other AIG subsidiaries and (2) those instruments that are designated as hedging instruments when the change in the fair value of the hedged item is not reported in Net realized capital gains
(losses Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions.    

The following table presents the components of Net realized capital gains (losses) and the increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation of our available for sale
securities:   

* Excludes net unrealized gains attributable to businesses held for sale.   

Evaluating Investments for Other-Than-Temporary Impairments

Fixed Maturity Securities     

  If we intend to sell a fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is
written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. When assessing our intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required
to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition our
investment portfolio, sales of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to take advantage of favorable pricing.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
260  

Table of Contents   

  For
all other fixed maturity securities for which a credit impairment has occurred, the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding charge to earnings. The
estimated recovery value is the present value of cash flows expected to be collected, as determined by management. The difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not related to a credit
impairment is recognized in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity securities on which other-than-temporary credit impairments were taken (a separate
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)).   

  When
estimating future cash flows for a structured fixed maturity security (e.g., RMBS, CMBS, CDO, ABS) management considers historical performance of underlying assets and available market
information as well as bond-specific structural considerations, such as credit enhancement and priority of payment structure of the security. In addition, the process of estimating future
cash flows includes, but is not limited to, the following critical inputs, which vary by asset class:  

Current delinquency rates;   
           Expected default rates and the timing of such defaults;   
           Loss severity and the timing of any recovery; and   
           Expected prepayment speeds.    

  For
corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities determined to be credit impaired, management considers the fair value as the recovery value when available information does not
indicate that another value is more relevant or reliable. When management identifies information that supports a recovery value other than the fair value, the determination of a recovery value
considers scenarios specific to the issuer and the security, and may be based upon estimates of outcomes of corporate restructurings, political and macroeconomic factors, stability and financial
strength of the issuer, the value of any secondary sources of repayment and the disposition of assets.   

  We
consider severe price declines in our assessment of potential credit impairments. We may also modify our modeled outputs for certain securities when we determine that price declines are indicative
of factors not comprehended by the cash flow models.   

  In
periods subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign exchange related, we
prospectively accrete into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding period of the security.   

Credit Impairments     

   The following table presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings for
available for sale fixed maturity securities held by us, and includes structured, corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities:   

* Represents accretion recognized due to changes in cash flows expected to be collected over the remaining expected term
of the credit impaired securities as well as the accretion due to the passage of time.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
261  

Table of Contents   

Equity Securities     

  We evaluate our available for sale equity securities, equity method and cost method investments for impairment by considering such securities as
candidates for other-than-temporary impairment if they meet any of the following criteria:  

the security has traded at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to cost for an extended period of time (nine
consecutive months or longer);   
           a discrete credit event has occurred resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation;
(ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for court-supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer
proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than the par value of their claims;
or   
           we have concluded that it may not realize a full recovery on its investment, regardless of the occurrence of one of the
foregoing events.    

  The
determination that an equity security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer,
its near-term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline in which we could not
reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary (severity losses).   

Other Invested Assets     

  Our investments in private equity funds and hedge funds are evaluated for impairment similar to the evaluation of equity securities for impairments
as discussed above. Such evaluation considers market conditions, events and volatility that may impact the recoverability of the underlying investments within these private equity funds and hedge
funds and is based on the nature of the underlying investments and specific inherent risks. Such risks may evolve based on the nature of the underlying investments.   

  Our
investments in life settlement contracts are monitored for impairment based on the underlying life insurance policies, with cash flows reported periodically. An investment in a life settlement
contract is considered impaired if the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the expected proceeds from the insurance policy are less than the carrying amount of the investment plus anticipated
continuing costs. If an impairment loss is recognized, the investment is written down to fair value. During 2011, we implemented an enhanced process in which updated medical information on individual
insured lives is requested on a routine basis. In cases where updated information indicates that an individual's health has improved, an impairment loss may arise as a result of revised estimates of
net cash flows from the related contract. We also revised the valuation table used to estimate future net cash flows. This had the general effect of decreasing the projected net cash flows on a number
of contracts. These changes resulted in an increase in the number of life settlement contracts identified as potentially impaired.   

  Our
investments in aircraft assets and real estate are periodically evaluated for recoverability whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may be impaired. When
impairment indicators are present, we compare expected investment cash flows to carrying value. When the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value, the investments are written down to fair
value with a corresponding charge to earnings.   

Purchased Credit Impaired (PCI) Securities

In 2011, we began purchasing certain RMBS securities that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their issuance. We determined, based on our expectations as
to the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be received, that it was probable at acquisition that we would not collect all contractually required payments for these PCI securities, including
both principal and interest after considering the
effects of prepayments. At acquisition, the timing and amount of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be received on each PCI security was determined based on our best estimate using key
assumptions, such as interest rates, default rates and prepayment speeds. At acquisition, the difference between the undiscounted expected future cash flows of the PCI securities and the recorded
investment in the securities represents the initial accretable yield, which is to be accreted into net investment income over their remaining lives on a level-yield basis. Additionally, the difference
between the contractually required payments on the PCI securities and the undiscounted expected future cash flows represents the non-accretable difference at acquisition. Over time, based
on actual payments received and changes in estimates of undiscounted expected future cash flows, the accretable yield and the non-accretable difference can change, as discussed further
below.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
262  

Table of Contents    

  On a quarterly basis, the undiscounted expected future cash flows associated with PCI securities are re-evaluated based on updates to key
assumptions. Declines in undiscounted expected future cash flows due to further credit deterioration as well as changes in the expected timing of the cash flows can result in the recognition of an
other-than-temporary impairment charge, as PCI securities are subject to our policy for evaluating investments for other-than-temporary impairment.
Changes to undiscounted expected future cash flows due solely to the changes in the contractual benchmark interest rates on variable rate PCI securities will change the accretable yield prospectively.
Significant increases in undiscounted expected future cash flows for reasons other than interest rate changes are recognized prospectively as adjustments to the accretable yield.   

The following tables present information on our PCI securities, which are included in bonds available for sale:   

(in millions)    

At Date of Acquisition   

Contractually required payments (principal and interest)  
     
  $  
  18,708  

Cash flows expected to be collected *   

14,626  

Recorded investment in acquired securities  

9,379  

*         Represents
undiscounted expected cash flows, including both principal and interest.   

The following table presents activity for the accretable yield on PCI securities:   

Pledged Investments

Secured Financing and Similar Arrangements

We enter into financing transactions whereby certain securities are transferred to financial institutions in exchange for cash or other liquid collateral. Securities
transferred by us under these financing transactions may be sold or repledged by the counterparties. As collateral for the securities transferred by us, counterparties transfer assets to us, such as
cash or high quality fixed maturity securities. Collateral levels are monitored daily and are generally maintained at an agreed-upon percentage of the fair value of the transferred
securities during the life of the transactions. Where we receive fixed maturity securities as collateral, we do not have the right to sell or repledge this collateral unless an event of default occurs
by the counterparties. At the termination of the transactions, we and our counterparties are obligated to return the collateral provided and the securities transferred, respectively. We treat these
transactions as secured financing arrangements.   

  Secured
financing transactions also include securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase agreements), in which we transfer securities in exchange for cash, with an agreement by us to
repurchase the same or substantially similar securities. In the majority of these repurchase agreements, the securities transferred by us may be sold or repledged by the counterparties. Repurchase
agreements entered into by the DIB are carried at fair   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
263  

Table of Contents   

  value
based on market-observable interest rates. All other repurchase agreements are recorded at their contracted repurchase amounts plus accrued interest.   

  Under
the secured financing transactions described above, securities available for sale with a fair value of $8.2 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2012 and
December 31, 2011, respectively, and trading securities with a fair value of $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively,
were pledged to counterparties.   

  Prior
to January 1, 2012, in the case of repurchase agreements where we did not obtain collateral sufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing identical replacement securities
during the term of the contract (generally
less than 90 percent of the security value), we accounted for the transaction as a sale of the security and reported the obligation to repurchase the security as a derivative contract. The fair
value of securities transferred under repurchase agreements accounted for as sales was $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011. Effective January 1, 2012, the level of collateral
received by the transferor in a repurchase agreement or similar arrangement is no longer relevant in determining whether the transaction should be accounted for as a sale. There were no repurchase
agreements accounted for as sales as of December 31, 2012.   

  We
also enter into agreements in which securities are purchased by us under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements), which are accounted for as secured financing transactions and reported
as short-term investments or other assets, depending on their terms. These agreements are recorded at their contracted resale amounts plus accrued interest, other than those that are
accounted for at fair value. Such agreements entered into by the DIB are carried at fair value based on market observable interest rates. In all reverse repurchase transactions, we take possession of
or obtain a security interest in the related securities, and we have the right to sell or repledge this collateral received. The fair value of securities collateral pledged to us was
$11.0 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, of which $33 million and $122 million was repledged by us.   

Insurance   Statutory and Other Deposits

Total carrying values of cash and securities deposited by our insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities or other insurance-related arrangements,
including certain annuity-related obligations and certain reinsurance agreements, were $8.9 billion and $9.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Other Pledges

Certain of our subsidiaries are members of Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) and such membership requires the members to own stock in these FHLBs. These subsidiaries owned an
aggregate of $84 million and $77 million of stock in FHLBs at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. To the extent an AIG subsidiary borrows from the FHLB,
its ownership interest in the stock of FHLBs will be pledged to the FHLB. In addition, our subsidiaries have pledged securities available for sale with a fair value of $341 million at
December 31, 2012, associated with advances from the FHLBs.   

  Certain
GIAs have provisions that require collateral to be posted or payments to be made by us upon a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings. The actual amount of collateral required to
be posted to the counterparties in the event of such downgrades, and the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depend on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding
affected transactions and other factors prevailing at and after the time of the downgrade. The fair value of securities pledged as collateral with respect to these obligations approximated
$4.4 billion and $5.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. This collateral primarily consists of securities of the U.S. government and
government sponsored entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
264  

Table of Contents   

8. LENDING ACTIVITIES

Mortgage and other loans receivable include commercial mortgages, life insurance policy loans, commercial loans, other loans and notes receivable. Commercial mortgages,
commercial loans, and other loans and notes receivable are carried at unpaid principal balances less credit allowances and plus or minus adjustments for the accretion or amortization of discount or
premium. Interest income on such loans is accrued as earned.   

  Direct
costs of originating commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and other loans and notes receivable, net of nonrefundable points and fees, are deferred and included in the carrying amount of the
related receivables. The amount deferred is amortized to income as an adjustment to earnings using the interest method.   

  Life
insurance policy loans are carried at unpaid principal amount. There is no allowance for policy loans because these loans serve to reduce the death benefit paid when the death claim is made and
the balances are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the policy.   

   The following table presents the composition of Mortgages and other loans receivable:   

* Commercial mortgages primarily represent loans for office, retail and industrial properties, with exposures in
California and New York representing the largest geographic concentrations (22 percent and 15 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2012). Over 99 percent and
98 percent of the commercial mortgages were current as to payments of principal and interest at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

The following table presents the credit quality indicators for commercial mortgage loans:   

(a)     Loans
that have been modified in troubled debt restructurings and are performing according to their restructured terms. See discussion of troubled debt restructurings below.   

  (b)     Does
not reflect valuation allowances.   

Methodology Used to Estimate the Allowance for Credit Losses

Mortgage and other loans receivable are considered impaired when collection of all amounts due under contractual terms is not probable. For commercial mortgage loans in
particular, the impairment is measured based on the fair value of underlying collateral, which is determined based on the present value of expected net future cash flows of the collateral, less
estimated costs to sell. For other loans, the impairment may be measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or based on the
loan's observable market price, where available. An allowance is typically established for the difference between the impaired value of the loan and its current carrying amount. Additional allowance
amounts are established for incurred but not   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
265  

Table of Contents   

  specifically
identified impairments, based on the analysis of internal risk ratings and current loan values. Internal risk ratings are assigned based on the consideration of risk factors including
past due status, debt service coverage, loan-to-value ratio or the ratio of the loan balance to the estimated value of the property, property occupancy, profile of the borrower
and of the major property tenants, economic trends in the market where the property is located, and condition of the property. These factors and the resulting risk ratings also provide a basis for
determining the level of monitoring performed at both the individual loan and the portfolio level. When all or a portion of a commercial mortgage loan is deemed uncollectible, the uncollectible
portion of the carrying value of the loan is charged off against the allowance. Interest income on impaired loans is recognized as cash is received.   

  A
significant majority of commercial mortgage loans in the portfolio are non-recourse loans and, accordingly, the only guarantees are for specific items that are exceptions to the
non-recourse provisions. It is therefore extremely rare for us to have cause to enforce the provisions of a guarantee on a commercial real estate or mortgage loan.   

The following table presents a rollforward of the changes in the allowance for losses on Mortgage and other loans receivable:   

(a)     Of
the total, $47 million and $65 million relates to individually assessed credit losses on $286 million and $476 million of commercial mortgage loans as
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  (b)     Included
in Other loans were finance receivables, which were reported net of unearned finance charges, for both investment purposes and held for sale.   

Troubled Debt Restructurings

We modify loans to optimize their returns and improve their collectability, among other things. When such a modification is undertaken with a borrower that is experiencing
financial difficulty and the modification involves us granting a concession to the troubled debtor, the modification is deemed to be a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). We assess whether a borrower
is experiencing financial difficulty based on a variety of factors, including the borrower's current default on any of its outstanding debt, the probability of a default on any of
its debt in the foreseeable future without the modification, the insufficiency of the borrower's forecasted cash flows to service any of its outstanding debt (including both principal and interest),
and the borrower's inability to access alternative third-party financing at an interest rate that would be reflective of current market conditions for a non-troubled debtor. Concessions
granted may include extended maturity dates, interest rate changes, principal forgiveness, payment deferrals and easing of loan covenants.   

  As
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we held no significant loans that had been modified in a TDR during those respective years.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
266  

Table of Contents    

9. REINSURANCE

In the ordinary course of business, our insurance companies may use both treaty and facultative reinsurance to minimize their net loss exposure to any single catastrophic
loss event or to an accumulation of losses from a number of smaller events or to provide greater diversification of our businesses. In addition, our general insurance subsidiaries assume reinsurance
from other insurance companies. We determine the portion of the incurred but not reported (IBNR) loss that will be recoverable under our reinsurance contracts by reference to the terms of the
reinsurance protection purchased. This determination is necessarily based on the estimate of IBNR and accordingly, is subject to the same uncertainties as the estimate of IBNR. Reinsurance assets
include the balances due from reinsurance and insurance companies under the terms of our reinsurance agreements for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future
policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid. Amounts related to paid and unpaid losses and benefits and loss expenses with respect to these
reinsurance agreements are substantially collateralized. We remain liable to the extent that our reinsurers do not meet their obligation under the reinsurance contracts, and as such, we regularly
evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentration of our credit risk. The allowance for doubtful accounts on reinsurance assets was $338 million and
$365 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

   The following table provides supplemental information for loss and benefit reserves, gross and net of ceded reinsurance:   

(a)     In
2012 and 2011, the Net of Reinsurance amount reflects the cession under the June 17, 2011 transaction with National Indemnity Company (NICO) of $1.6 billion and
$1.7 billion, respectively.   

  (b)     Represents
gross reinsurance assets, excluding allowances and reinsurance recoverable on paid losses.   

Short-Duration Reinsurance

Short-duration reinsurance is effected under reinsurance treaties and by negotiation on individual risks. Certain of these reinsurance arrangements consist of excess of loss
contracts that protect us against losses above stipulated amounts. Ceded premiums are considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a reduction of premiums earned over the contract
period in proportion to the protection received. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on short-duration contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the claims liabilities associated with the
reinsurance and presented as a component of Reinsurance assets. Assumed reinsurance premiums are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the reinsurance contracts and the
portion of premiums relating to the unexpired terms of coverage is included in the reserve for unearned premiums. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met for
reinsurance accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements are not met, the contract is accounted for as a deposit, resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit
asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of both underwriting and timing risk, and a
reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. Similar risk transfer criteria are used to determine whether directly written insurance contracts should be accounted for as
insurance or as a deposit.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
267  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents short-duration insurance premiums written and earned:     

*         Includes
results of Mortgage Guaranty.   

For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, reinsurance recoveries, which reduced loss and loss expenses incurred, amounted to
$4.5 billion, $6.1 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively.   

Long-Duration Reinsurance

Long-duration reinsurance is effected principally under yearly renewable term treaties. The premiums with respect to these treaties are earned over the contract
period in proportion to the protection provided. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on long-duration contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the assumptions used for the
underlying policy benefits and are presented as a component of Reinsurance assets.   

   The following table presents premiums for our long-duration insurance and retirement services operations:   

*         Primarily
represents results of AIA, which was deconsolidated during 2010.   

Long-duration reinsurance recoveries, which reduced death and other benefits, approximated $758 million, $611 million and
$810 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   

   The following table presents long-duration insurance in force ceded to other insurance companies:   

*         Excludes
amounts related to held-for-sale entities.   

Long-duration insurance assumed in force represented 0.1 percent of gross long-duration insurance in force at December 31,
2012, 0.07 percent at December 31, 2011 and 0.1 percent at December 31, 2010, and premiums assumed by AIG Life and Retirement represented 0.5 percent,
0.5 percent and 0.3 percent of gross premiums for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement operations utilize internal and third-party reinsurance relationships to manage insurance risks and to facilitate capital management strategies. As a result of these
reinsurance arrangements AIG Life and Retirement is able to minimize the use of letters of credit and utilize capital more efficiently. Pools of highly-rated third-party reinsurers are utilized to
manage net amounts at risk in excess of retention limits. AIG Life and Retirement's domestic long-duration insurance companies also cede excess, non-economic reserves carried
on a   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
268  

Table of Contents   

  statutory-basis
on certain term and universal life insurance policies and certain fixed annuities to onshore and offshore affiliates.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement generally obtains letters of credit to obtain statutory recognition of its intercompany reinsurance transactions, particularly with respect to redundant statutory reserves
requirements on term insurance and universal life with secondary guarantees (XXX and AXXX reserves). For this purpose, AIG Life and Retirement has a $585 million syndicated letter of credit
facility outstanding at December 31, 2012, all of which relates to long-duration intercompany reinsurance transactions. AIG Life and Retirement has also obtained approximately
$215 million of letters of credit on a bilateral basis all of which relates to long-duration intercompany reinsurance transactions. All of these approximately $800 million of
letters of credit are due to mature on December 31, 2015.   

Reinsurance Security

Our third-party reinsurance arrangements do not relieve us from our direct obligation to our insureds. Thus, a credit exposure exists with respect to both short-duration and
long-duration reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. We hold substantial collateral as security under
related reinsurance agreements in the form of funds, securities, and/or letters of credit. A provision has been recorded for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
269  

Table of Contents    

10. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

Deferred policy acquisition costs represent those costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal of existing insurance
contracts. We defer incremental costs that result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition or renewal of an insurance contract. Such deferred policy acquisition costs generally include
agent or broker commissions and bonuses, premium taxes, and medical and inspection fees that would not have been incurred if the insurance contract had not been acquired or renewed. Each cost is
analyzed to assess whether it is fully deferrable. We partially defer costs, including certain commissions, when we do not believe that the entire cost is directly related to the acquisition or
renewal of insurance contracts.   

  We
also defer a portion of employee total compensation and payroll-related fringe benefits directly related to time spent performing specific acquisition or renewal activities, including costs
associated with the time spent on underwriting, policy issuance and processing, and sales force contract selling. The amounts deferred are derived based on successful efforts for each distribution
channel and/or cost center from which the cost originates.   

  Advertising
costs related to the issuance of insurance contracts that meet the direct-advertising criteria are deferred and amortized as part of DAC.   

Short-duration insurance contracts:       Policy
acquisition costs are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums written are earned, generally 12 months. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which the
insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Investment income is
anticipated in assessing the recoverability of DAC. We assess the recoverability of DAC on an annual basis or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. This assessment
is performed by comparing recorded net unearned premiums and anticipated investment income on in-force business to the sum of expected claims, claims adjustment expenses, unamortized DAC
and maintenance costs. If the sum of these costs exceeds the amount of recorded net unearned premiums and anticipated investment income, the excess is recognized as an offset against the asset
established for DAC. This offset is referred to as a premium deficiency charge. Increases in expected claims and claims adjustment expenses can have a significant impact on the likelihood and amount
of a premium deficiency charge.   

Long-duration insurance
contracts:       Policy acquisition costs for participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products
are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, over the premium paying period. Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life, and investment-type
products (investment-oriented products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts.
Estimated gross profits are composed of net investment income, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains and losses.   

  We
use a "reversion to the mean" methodology, which allows us to maintain our long-term assumptions, while also giving consideration to the effect of deviations from these assumptions
occurring in the current period. A DAC unlocking is performed when management determines that key assumptions (e.g. market return, surrender rates, etc.) should be modified. The DAC asset is
recalculated using the new assumptions. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry; however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment and vary
within the industry. If estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC is recalculated using the new assumptions. Any resulting adjustment is included in income as an adjustment to DAC. DAC is
grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the current and projected future
profitability of the underlying insurance contracts.   

  The
DAC for investment-oriented products is also adjusted for changes in estimated gross profits that result from changes in the net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
available for sale. Because fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale are carried at aggregate fair value, an adjustment is made to DAC equal to the change in DAC amortization that would
have been recorded if such securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. For long-duration traditional business, if such
reinvestment would not be sufficient to recover DAC and meet policyholder obligations an adjustment to DAC and additional future policy benefits for those products is recorded using current best
estimates that incorporate a review of assumptions regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
270  

Table of Contents   

  The
change in these adjustments, net of tax, is included with the change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments that is credited or charged directly to Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) (Shadow DAC).   

  Value
of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of acquisition and is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet with DAC. This value is based on the present value of future
pre-tax profits discounted at yields applicable at the time of purchase. For participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products, VOBA is amortized over the
life of the business similar to that for DAC based on the assumptions at purchase. For universal life, and investment-oriented products, VOBA is amortized in relation to the estimated gross profits to
date for each period.   

  For
contracts accounted for at fair value, policy acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and not deferred or amortized.   

  For
discussion related to changes in deferred acquisition costs in 2012 due to the adoption of a new accounting standard that addresses the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing
insurance contracts. See Note 2 herein.   

   The following table presents a rollforward of DAC:   

(a)     Includes
$(619) million, $(1.4) billion, and $(758) million for AIG Life and Retirement at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $(34) million for
Divested businesses at 2011 related to the effect of net unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities. For the year ended December 31, 2010, there were no net unrealized gains
and losses on available for sale securities associated with divested businesses.   

  (b)     For
2010, includes AIA which was deconsolidated and ALICO which was sold in 2010.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
271  

Table of Contents   

  Included in the above table is the VOBA, an intangible asset recorded during purchase accounting, which is amortized in a manner similar to DAC. Amortization of
VOBA was $53 million, $34 million and $90 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, while the unamortized balance was $339 million, $430 million and
$488 million at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The percentage of the unamortized balance of VOBA at December 31, 2012 expected to be amortized in 2013 through
2017 by year is: 8.3 percent, 7.3 percent, 6.9 percent, 6.0 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively, with 65.0 percent being amortized after five years. These
projections are based on current estimates for investment, persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions. The DAC amortization
charged to income includes the increase or decrease of amortization related to Net realized capital gains (losses), primarily in the retirement services business of AIG Life and Retirement. In 2012,
2011 and 2010, amortization expense (increased) decreased by $119 million, $274 million and $114 million, respectively.   

  As
we operate in various global markets, the estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC, VOBA and SIA are subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any single period. The
combination of market returns and interest rates may lead to acceleration of amortization in some products and regions and simultaneous deceleration of amortization in other products and regions.   

  DAC,
VOBA and SIA for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented and retirement services products are reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business.
This review involves significant management judgment. If actual future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, AIG's DAC, VOBA and SIA may be subject to an impairment charge and AIG's
results of operations could be significantly affected in future periods.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
272  

Table of Contents   

11. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

A variable interest entity (VIE) is a legal entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support
or is structured such that equity investors lack the ability to make significant decisions relating to the entity's operations through voting rights and do not substantively participate in the gains
and losses of the entity. Consolidation of a VIE by its primary beneficiary is not based on majority voting interest, but is based on other criteria discussed below.   

  While
we enter into various arrangements with VIEs in the normal course of business, our involvement with VIEs is primarily via our insurance companies as a passive investor in debt securities (rated
and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. In all instances, we consolidate the VIE when we determine we are the primary beneficiary. This analysis includes a review of the VIE's capital
structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature of the VIE's operations and purpose, nature of the VIE's interests issued and our involvement with the entity. When assessing the need to
consolidate a VIE, we evaluate the design of the VIE as well as the related risks the entity was designed to expose the variable interest holders to.   

For
VIEs with attributes consistent with that of an investment company or a money market fund, the primary beneficiary is the party or group of related parties that absorbs a majority of the expected
losses of the VIE, receives the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.   

  For
all other variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affect the entity's
economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE. While also considering these factors, the
consolidation conclusion depends on the breadth of our decision-making ability and our ability to influence activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE.   

Exposure to Loss

Our total off-balance sheet exposure associated with VIEs, primarily consisting of financial guarantees and commitments to real estate and investment funds, was
$0.2 billion and $0.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

   The following table presents our total assets, total liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure associated with our variable interests in consolidated
VIEs:   

(a)     The
assets of each VIE can be used only to settle specific obligations of that VIE.   

  (b)     Decrease
primarily due to the retirement of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests held by the Department of the Treasury. As a result, the AIA SPV no longer qualified as a VIE. Assets
include $567 million of cash held in escrow pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement between AIG and MetLife. See Note 16 herein for further discussion of the escrow
arrangement.   

  (c)     At
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, off-balance sheet exposure with respect to real estate and investments funds was $48.7 million and
$85.7 million, respectively.   

We calculate our maximum exposure to loss to be (i) the amount invested in the debt or equity of the VIE, (ii) the notional amount of VIE assets
or liabilities where we have also provided credit protection to the VIE with the VIE as the referenced obligation, and (iii) other commitments and guarantees to the VIE. Interest holders in
VIEs sponsored by us generally have recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to us, except in limited circumstances when we have provided a guarantee to the
VIE's interest holders.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
273  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents total assets of unconsolidated VIEs in which we hold a variable interest, as well as our maximum exposure to loss associated with these
VIEs:   

Balance Sheet Classification

Our interests in the assets and liabilities of consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs were classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as
follows:   

*         Decrease
from prior year was due to the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility from the AIA and ALICO SPVs pursuant to the Recapitalization.   

Real Estate and Investment Funds

AIG, through AIG Global Real Estate, is an investor in various real estate investments, some of which are VIEs. These investments are typically with unaffiliated third-party
developers via a partnership or limited liability company structure. The VIE's activities consist of the development or redevelopment of commercial and residential real estate. Our involvement varies
from being a passive equity investor or finance provider to actively managing the activities of the VIE.   

Our
insurance operations participate as passive investors in the equity issued primarily by third-party-managed hedge and private equity funds. Our insurance operations typically are not involved in
the design or establishment of VIEs, nor do they actively participate in the management of VIEs.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
274  

Table of Contents   

Securitization Vehicles

During 2012, we created VIEs that hold investments, primarily in investment-grade debt securities, and issued beneficial interests in these investments. The majority of
these beneficial interests are owned by AIG entities and we maintain the power to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impacts their economic performance and bear the obligation
to absorb losses or receive benefits from the entities that could potentially be significant to the entities. Accordingly, we consolidate these entities and those beneficial interests issued to
third-parties are reported as Long-term debt.   

Structured Investment Vehicle

Through the DIB, we sponsor Nightingale Finance Ltd, a structured investment vehicle (SIV), which meets the definition of a VIE. Nightingale Finance Ltd.
invests in variable rate, investment-grade debt securities, the majority of which are ABS. We have no equity interest in the SIV, but we maintain the power to direct the activities of the SIV that
most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and bear the obligation to absorb economic losses that could potentially be significant to the SIV. We are the primary beneficiary and
consolidate the assets of the SIV, which totaled over $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2012. Related liabilities were not significant.   

Affordable Housing Partnerships

SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, Inc. (SAAHP) organizes and invests in limited partnerships that develop and operate affordable housing qualifying for federal
tax credits, in addition to a few market rate properties across the United States. The general partners in the operating partnerships are almost exclusively unaffiliated third-party developers. We do
not consolidate an operating partnership if the general partner is an unaffiliated person. Through approximately 1,000 partnerships, SAAHP has investments in developments with approximately 130,000
apartment units nationwide, and as of December 31, 2012, has syndicated approximately $7.7 billion in partnership equity to other investors who will receive, among other benefits, tax
credits under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. The pre-tax income of SAAHP is reported, along with other AIG Life and Retirement partnership income, as a component of the AIG
Life and Retirement segment.   

Maiden Lane Interests

In 2008, certain of our wholly-owned life insurance companies sold all of their undivided interests in a pool of $39.3 billion face amount of RMBS to ML II, whose
sole member is the FRBNY. AIG has a significant variable economic interest in ML II, which is a VIE.   

  In
2008, AIG entered into an agreement with the FRBNY, ML III and The Bank of New York Mellon, which established arrangements, through ML III, to fund the purchase of multi-sector CDOs underlying or
related to CDS written by AIGFP. Concurrently, AIGFP's counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to terminate those CDS transactions relating to the multi-sector CDOs purchased from them. AIG had
a significant variable interest in ML III, which was a VIE. In 2012, we received final distributions from ML II and ML III.   

Other Asset Accounts

Aircraft Trusts

We have created two VIEs for the purpose of acquiring, owning, leasing, maintaining, operating and selling aircraft. Our subsidiaries hold beneficial interests, including
all the equity interests in these entities. These beneficial interests include passive investments by our insurance operations in non-voting preferred equity interests and in the majority
of the debt issued by these entities. We maintain the power to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the entities' economic performance, and bear the obligation to absorb
economic losses or receive economic benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. As a result, we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary and we fully consolidate the assets
and liabilities of these entities, which totaled $1.2 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively at December 31, 2012. The debt of these entities is not an obligation of, or
guaranteed by, us or any of our subsidiaries. Under a servicing agreement, ILFC acts as servicer for the aircraft owned by these entities.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
275  

Table of Contents    

Commercial Loans Vehicles

We sponsor one VIE that has issued a variable funding note backed by a commercial loan collateralized by individual life insurance assets. As of December 31, 2012,
total consolidated assets and
liabilities for this entity were $412 million and $188 million, respectively; our maximum exposure, representing the carrying value of the consumer loan, was $389 million.   

Commercial Paper Conduit

AIGFP is the primary beneficiary of Curzon Funding LLC, an asset-backed commercial paper conduit, the assets of which serve as collateral for the conduit's
obligations.   

RMBS, CMBS, Other ABS and CDOS

Through our insurance company subsidiaries, we are a passive investor in RMBS, CMBS, other ABS and CDOs primarily issued by domestic special-purpose entities. We generally
do not sponsor or transfer assets to, or act as the servicer to these asset-backed structures, and were not involved in the design of these entities.   

Through
our DIB, we also invest in CDOs and similar structures, which can be cash-based or synthetic and are managed by third parties. The role of DIB is generally limited to that of a
passive investor in structures we do not manage.   

  Our
maximum exposure in these types of structures is limited to our investment in securities issued by these entities. Based on the nature of our investments and our passive involvement in these types
of structures, we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of these entities. We have not included these entities in the above tables; however, the fair values of our investments in
these structures are reported in Notes 6 and 7 herein.   

Variable Interest Entities of Business Held for Sale

Financing Vehicles

ILFC has created wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purpose of purchasing aircraft and obtaining financing secured by such aircraft. A portion of the secured debt has been
guaranteed by the European
Export Credit Agencies and the Export-Import Bank of the United States. These entities meet the definition of a VIE because they do not have sufficient equity to operate without ILFC's subordinated
financial support in the form of intercompany notes which serve as equity. ILFC fully consolidates the entities, controls all the activities of the entities and guarantees the activities of the
entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table as they are wholly-owned and there are no other variable interests other than those of ILFC and the lenders. See Note 15 herein
for further information.   

Leasing Entities

ILFC has created wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purpose of facilitating aircraft leases with airlines. The entities meet the definition of a VIE because they do not have
sufficient equity to operate without ILFC's subordinated financial support in the form of intercompany notes which serve as equity. ILFC fully consolidates the entities, controls all the activities of
the entities and fully guarantees the activities of the entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table as they are wholly owned and there are no other variable interests in the
entities other than those of ILFC.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
276  

Table of Contents   

12. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING

We use derivatives and other financial instruments as part of our financial risk management programs and as part of our investment operations. Interest rate, currency,
equity and commodity swaps, credit contracts (including the super senior credit default swap portfolio), swaptions, options and forward transactions are accounted for as derivatives recorded on a
trade-date basis, and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in income, when appropriate. In certain instances, a contract's transaction price is the best
indication of initial fair value. Aggregate asset or liability positions are netted on the Consolidated Balance Sheet only to the extent permitted by qualifying master netting arrangements in place
with each respective counterparty. Cash collateral posted with counterparties in conjunction with transactions supported by qualifying master netting arrangements is reported as a reduction of the
corresponding net derivative liability, while cash collateral received in conjunction with transactions supported by qualifying master netting arrangements is reported as a reduction of the
corresponding net derivative asset.   

  Derivatives,
with the exception of bifurcated embedded derivatives, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Derivative assets, at fair value and Derivative liabilities, at fair value. A
bifurcated embedded derivative is measured at fair value and accounted for in the same manner as a free standing derivative contract. The corresponding host contract is accounted for according to the
accounting guidance applicable for that instrument. A bifurcated embedded derivative is generally presented with the host contract in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 6 herein for
additional information on embedded policy derivatives.   

   The following table presents the notional amounts and fair values of our derivative instruments:   

(a)     Fair
value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral.   

  (b)     Includes
cross currency swaps.   

  (c)     Notional
amount of derivative liabilities and fair values of derivative liabilities include $23 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012 and
$18.3 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively at December 31, 2011 related to bifurcated embedded derivatives. A bifurcated embedded derivative is generally presented with the host
contract in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

  (d)     Consist
primarily of contracts with multiple underlying exposures.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
277  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet:   

(a)     Represents
derivatives used to hedge the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with insurance as well as embedded derivatives included in insurance contracts. Liabilities
include bifurcated embedded derivatives, which are recorded in Policyholder contract deposits.   

  (b)     Represents
netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement.   

  (c)     Represents
cash collateral posted and received that is eligible for netting.   

Collateral

We engage in derivative transactions directly with unaffiliated third parties in most cases under International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA)
agreements. Many of the ISDA agreements also include Credit Support Annex (CSA) provisions, which generally provide for collateral postings at various ratings and threshold levels. We attempt to
reduce our risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable collateral to be obtained from a counterparty on an upfront or contingent basis. We minimize the risk that
counterparties to transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral value and generally requiring additional collateral to
be posted upon the occurrence of certain events or circumstances. In addition, a significant portion of the derivative transactions have provisions that require collateral to be posted upon a
downgrade of our long-term debt ratings or give the counterparty the right to terminate the transaction. In the case of some of the derivative transactions, as an alternative to posting
collateral and subject to certain conditions, we may assign the transaction to an obligor with higher debt ratings or arrange for a substitute guarantee of our obligations by an obligor with higher
debt ratings or take other similar action. The actual amount of collateral required to be posted to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be
required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at and after the time of the downgrade.   

  Collateral
posted by us to third parties for derivative transactions was $4.5 billion and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. This
collateral can generally be repledged or resold by the counterparties. Collateral obtained by us from third parties for derivative transactions was $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion at
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. We generally can repledge or resell this collateral.   

Hedge Accounting

We designated certain derivatives entered into by GCM with third parties as fair value hedges of available-for-sale investment securities held by our
insurance subsidiaries. The fair value hedges include foreign currency forwards   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
278  

Table of Contents   

  designated
as hedges of the change in fair value of foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. We previously
designated certain interest rate swaps entered into by GCM with third parties as cash flow hedges of certain floating rate debt issued by ILFC, specifically to hedge the changes in cash flows on
floating rate debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. We de-designated such cash flow hedges in December 2012 subsequent to the announcement of the ILFC Transaction.   

  We
use foreign currency denominated debt and cross-currency swaps as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with our
non-U.S. dollar functional currency foreign subsidiaries. We assess the hedge effectiveness and measure the amount of ineffectiveness for these hedge relationships based on changes in spot
exchange rates. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 we recognized gains (losses) of $(74) million, $(13) million and $28 million, respectively, included in Foreign
currency translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive income related to the net investment hedge relationships.   

  A
qualitative methodology is utilized to assess hedge effectiveness for net investment hedges, while regression analysis is employed for all other hedges.   

The following table presents the effect of our derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statement of Operations:   

Years Ended December 31,      (in millions)    

2012    

2011   

Interest rate contracts: (a)   

Loss recognized in earnings on derivatives  

$   

$  
  (3  
  )  

Gain recognized in earnings on hedged items (b)   

124   

152  

Foreign exchange contracts: (a)   

Loss recognized in earnings on derivatives  

(2   

)   
     
   (1  
  )  

Gain recognized in earnings on hedged items  

2   

1  

(a)     Gains
and losses recognized in earnings for the ineffective portion and amounts excluded from effectiveness testing, if any, are recorded in Net realized capital gains (losses).   

  (b)     Includes
$124 million and $149 million, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing the amortization of debt basis adjustment
recorded in Other income and Net realized capital gains (losses) following the discontinuation of hedge accounting.   

The following table presents the effect of our derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations:   

(a)     Hedge
accounting was discontinued in December 2012 subsequent to the announcement of the ILFC Transaction. Gains and losses recognized in earnings are recorded in Income (loss) from
discontinued operations. Previously the effective portion of the change in fair value of a derivative qualifying as a cash flow hedge was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income until
earnings were affected by the variability of cash flows in the hedged item. Gains and losses reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income were previously recorded in Other income. Gains or
losses recognized in earnings on derivatives for the ineffective portion were previously recorded in Net realized capital gains (losses).   

  (b)     Includes
$19 million for the year ended December 2012, representing the reclassification from Accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings following the discontinuation
of cash flow hedges of ILFC debt.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
279  

Table of Contents   

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments

The following table presents the effect of our derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations:   

(a)     Includes
cross currency swaps.   

  (b)     Includes
embedded derivative losses of $166 million and $397 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Global Capital Markets Derivatives

GCM enters into derivative transactions to mitigate market risk in its exposures (interest rates, currencies, commodities, credit and equities) arising from its
transactions. At December 31, 2012, GCM has entered into credit derivative transactions with respect to $67 million of securities to economically hedge its credit risk. In most cases,
GCM has not hedged its exposures related to the credit default swaps it had written.   

  GCM
follows a policy of minimizing interest rate, currency, commodity, and equity risks associated with investment securities by entering into offsetting positions, thereby offsetting a significant
portion of the unrealized appreciation and depreciation.   

Super Senior Credit Default Swaps

Credit default swap transactions were entered into with the intention of earning revenue on credit exposure. In the majority of these transactions, we sold credit protection
on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. Generally, such credit protection was provided on a "second loss" basis, meaning we would incur
credit losses only after a shortfall of principal and/or interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected loans and debt securities, exceeded a specified threshold amount or level of
"first losses."   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
280  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents the net notional amount, fair value of derivative liability and unrealized market valuation gain of the
super senior credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions, by asset class:   

(a)     Net
notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches. The decrease in the total net notional amount from December 31, 2011 to
December 31, 2012 was due primarily to terminations of $5.4 billion and amortization of $3.2 billion.   

  (b)     Fair
value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral.   

(c)     Includes
credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) of $(39) million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing the
effect of changes in our credit spreads on the valuation of the derivatives liabilities.   

  (d)     During
2012, a super senior CDS transaction with a net notional amount of $470 million was terminated at approximately its fair value at the time of termination. As a result, a
$416 million loss, which was previously included in the fair value derivative liability as an unrealized market valuation loss, was realized. During 2012, $213 million was paid to
counterparties with respect to multi-sector CDOs. Upon payment, a $213 million loss, which was previously included in the fair value of the derivative liability as an unrealized market
valuation loss, was realized. Multi-sector CDOs also include $3.4 billion and $4.6 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Collateral postings with regards to multi-sector CDOs were $1.6 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2012
and December 31, 2011, respectively.   

  (e)     Corporate
debt/CLOs include $1.2 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the super senior tranches of CLOs at both December 31, 2012 and
December 31, 2011. Collateral postings with regards to corporate debt/CLOs were $420 million and $477 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011,
respectively.   

The expected weighted average maturity of the super senior credit derivative portfolios as of December 31, 2012 was less than one year for the regulatory
capital prime residential mortgage portfolio, 6 years for the multi-sector CDO arbitrage portfolio and 3 years for the corporate debt/CLO portfolio.   

  Given
the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the level of subordination of the credit protection written and the assessment of the credit quality of the underlying portfolio, as well as
the risk mitigants inherent in the transaction structures, we do not expect that we will be required to make payments pursuant to the contractual terms of those transactions providing regulatory
relief.   

  Because
of long-term maturities of the CDS in the arbitrage portfolio, we are unable to make reasonable estimates of the periods during which any payments would be made. However, the net
notional amount represents the maximum exposure to loss on the super senior credit default swap portfolio.   

Written Single Name Credit Default Swaps

We have also entered into credit default swap contracts referencing single-name exposures written on corporate, index and asset-backed credits with the intention
of earning spread income on credit exposure. Some of these transactions were entered into as part of a long-short strategy to earn the net spread between CDS written and purchased. At
December 31, 2012, the net notional amount of these written CDS contracts was $410 million, including ABS CDS transactions purchased from a liquidated multi-sector super senior CDS
transaction. These exposures have been partially hedged by purchasing offsetting CDS contracts of $51 million in net notional amount. The net unhedged position of $359 million represents
the maximum exposure to loss on these CDS contracts. The average maturity of the written CDS contracts is 4 years. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of derivative liability (which
represents the carrying value) of the portfolio of CDS was $48 million.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
281  

Table of Contents   

  Upon
a triggering event (e.g., a default) with respect to the underlying credit, we would have the option to either settle the position through an auction process (cash settlement) or pay the
notional amount of the contract to the counterparty in exchange for a bond issued by the underlying credit obligor (physical settlement).   

These
CDS contracts were written under ISDA Master Agreements. The majority of these ISDA Master Agreements include credit support annexes (CSAs) that provide for collateral postings at various
ratings and threshold levels. At December 31, 2012, collateral posted by us under these contracts was $64 million prior to offsets for other transactions.   

All Other Derivatives

Our businesses, other than GCM, also use derivatives and other instruments as part of their financial risk management. Interest rate derivatives (such as interest rate
swaps) are used to manage interest rate risk associated with embedded derivatives contained in insurance contract liabilities, fixed maturity securities, outstanding medium- and long-term
notes as well as other interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. Foreign exchange derivatives (principally foreign exchange forwards and options) are used to economically mitigate risk
associated with non-U.S. dollar denominated debt, net capital exposures, and foreign currency transactions. Equity derivatives are used to mitigate financial risk embedded in certain
insurance liabilities. The derivatives are effective economic hedges of the exposures that they are meant to offset.   

In
addition to hedging activities, we also enter into derivative instruments with respect to investment operations, which include, among other things, credit default swaps and purchasing investments
with embedded derivatives, such as equity-linked notes and convertible bonds.   

Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features

The aggregate fair value of our derivative instruments that contain credit risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at
December 31, 2012, was approximately $3.9 billion. The aggregate fair value of assets posted as collateral under these contracts at December 31, 2012, was 4.3 billion.   

  We
estimate that at December 31, 2012, based on our outstanding financial derivative transactions a one-notch downgrade of our long-term senior debt ratings to BBB+ by
Standard   Poor's Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (S P), would permit counterparties to make additional collateral calls and
permit certain counterparties to elect early termination of contracts, resulting in a negligible amount of corresponding collateral postings and termination payments; a one-notch downgrade
to Baa2 by Moody's Investors' Service, Inc. (Moody's) and an additional one-notch downgrade to BBB by S P would result in approximately $102 million in additional collateral
postings and termination payments and a further one-notch downgrade to Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S P would result in approximately $112 million in additional
collateral postings and termination payments. Additional collateral postings upon downgrade are estimated based on the factors in the individual collateral posting provisions of the CSA with each
counterparty and current exposure as of December 31, 2012. Factors considered in estimating the termination payments upon downgrade include current market conditions, the complexity of the
derivative transactions, historical termination experience and other observable market events such as bankruptcy and downgrade events that have occurred at other companies. Our estimates are also
based on the assumption that counterparties will terminate based on their net exposure to us. The actual termination payments could significantly differ from our estimates given market conditions at
the time of downgrade and the level of uncertainty in estimating both the number of counterparties who may elect to exercise their right to terminate and the payment that may be triggered in
connection with any such exercise.   

Hybrid Securities with Embedded Credit Derivatives

We invest in hybrid securities (such as credit-linked notes) with the intent of generating income, and not specifically to acquire exposure to embedded derivative risk. As
is the case with our other investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS, our investments in these hybrid securities are exposed to losses only up to the amount of our initial investment in the hybrid
security. Other than our initial investment in the hybrid securities, we have no further obligation to make payments on the embedded credit derivatives in the related hybrid securities.   

We
elect to account for our investments in these hybrid securities with embedded written credit derivatives at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in Net investment income and Other
income. Our investments in these hybrid securities are reported as Bond trading securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The fair value of these hybrid securities was $6.7 billion at
December 31, 2012. These securities have a current par amount of $15.0 billion and have remaining stated maturity dates that extend to 2052.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
282  

Table of Contents   

13. LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE AND FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR
LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS

The liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense represents the accumulation of estimates of unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not
reported and claim adjustments expenses, less applicable discount for future investment income. We continually review and update the methods used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish
the resulting reserves. Any adjustments resulting from this review are currently reflected in pre-tax income. Because these estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes
in estimates are common given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase previous estimates of ultimate cost
are referred to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development.   

   The following table presents the reconciliation of activity in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense:   

(a)     Represents
the acquisition of Fuji on March 31, 2010.   

  (b)     Includes
amounts related to dispositions through the date of disposition.   

  (c)     In
2012, includes $262 million, $46 million and $326 million related to excess casualty, commercial specialty workers' compensation and environmental,
respectively. In 2011, includes $(414) million, $145 million and $413 million related to excess casualty, commercial specialty workers' compensation and environmental,
respectively. In 2010, includes $1.1 billion, $793 million and $1.5 billion related to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and asbestos, respectively.   

The net adverse development includes loss-sensitive business, for which we recognized a $54 million, $172 million and
$8 million loss-sensitive premium adjustment for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  The
2010 net adverse loss development for prior accident years primarily relates to the asbestos, excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and primary workers' compensation. Further, this charge
primarily relates to accident years 2007 and prior (accident years before the financial crisis in 2008) and a significant amount relates to accident 2005 and prior (accident years prior to the start
of the managed reduction in these long-tail lines of business). In 2010, the reserve charges were primarily due to long-tail lines of business which have been reduced since
2006. In   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
283  

Table of Contents   

  the
case of asbestos, since 1985, standard policies have contained an absolute exclusion for asbestos and pollution-related damages. The factors driving excess casualty loss cost were primarily due to
medical inflation and the exhaustion of underlying primary policies for products liability coverage and for homebuilders. In 2010, excess workers' compensation also experienced significant prior year
development related to the passage of the Affordable Care Act in March 2010 as we concluded that there is increased vulnerability to the risk of further cost-shifting to the excess
workers' compensation class of business.   

Discounting of Reserves

At December 31, 2012, the liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense reflects a net loss reserve discount of $3.2 billion, including tabular and
non-tabular calculations based upon the following assumptions:  

The tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the
1979-81 Decennial Mortality Table.   
           The non-tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York
and Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies' own payout patterns. For
Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout pattern. For accident years
2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and investment yields of the companies.   
           Certain asbestos business that was written by AIG Property Casualty is discounted, when allowed by the regulator and when
payments are fixed and determinable, based on the investment yields of the companies and the payout pattern for this business.    

  The
discount consists of the following: $801 million   tabular discount for workers' compensation in the domestic operations of AIG Property Casualty and
$2.4 billion   non-tabular discount for workers' compensation in the domestic operations of AIG Property Casualty; and $51 million  
non-tabular discount for asbestos for AIG Property Casualty.   

Future Policy Benefits

Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts include provisions for future dividends to participating policyholders, accrued in accordance
with all applicable regulatory or contractual provisions. Also included in Future policy benefits are liabilities for annuities issued in structured settlement arrangements whereby a claimant has
agreed to settle a general insurance claim in exchange for fixed payments over a fixed determinable period of time with a life contingency feature. Structured settlement liabilities are presented on a
discounted basis because the settled claims are fixed and determinable. Policyholder contract deposits also include our liability for (a) certain guarantee benefits accounted for as embedded
derivatives at fair value, (b) annuities issued in a structured settlement arrangement with no life contingency and (c) certain contracts we elected to account for at fair value.   

The following table presents the components of future policy benefits:   

Long duration contract liabilities included in future policy benefits, as presented in the preceding table, result primarily from life products. Short duration
contract liabilities are primarily accident and health products. The liability for future life policy benefits has been established on the basis of the following
assumptions:  

Interest rates (exclusive of immediate/terminal funding annuities), which vary by year of issuance and products, range
from 1 percent to 9.5 percent within the first 20 years. Interest rates on immediate/terminal funding annuities are at a maximum of 13.5 percent and grade to not greater
than zero percent.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
284  

Table of Contents   

Mortality and surrender rates are based upon actual experience modified to allow for variations in policy form. The
weighted average lapse rate, including surrenders, for individual and group life was approximately 7.1 percent.   
           Participating life business represented approximately 2.0 percent of the gross insurance in force at
December 31, 2012 and 4.2 percent of gross Premiums and other considerations in 2012. The amount of annual dividends to be paid is approved locally by the boards of directors of the life
companies. Provisions for future dividend payments are computed by jurisdiction, reflecting local regulations. The portions of current and prior Net income and of current unrealized appreciation of
investments that can inure to our benefit are restricted in some cases by the insurance contracts and by the local insurance regulations of the jurisdictions in which the policies are in force.    

Policyholder Contract Deposits

The following table presents policyholder contract deposits liabilities:   

The liability for policyholder contract deposits has been established based on the following assumptions:  

Interest rates credited on deferred annuities, which vary by year of issuance, range from 1 percent to, including
bonuses, 9 percent. Current declared interest rates are generally guaranteed to remain in effect for a period of one year though some are guaranteed for longer periods. Withdrawal charges
generally range from zero percent to 20 percent grading to zero over a period of zero to 15 years.   
           Guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) have market value withdrawal provisions for any funds withdrawn other than benefit
responsive payments. Interest rates credited generally range from 0.5 percent to 8.5 percent. The majority of these GICs mature within four years.    
           Interest rates on corporate life insurance products are guaranteed at 3 percent and the weighted average rate
credited in 2012 was 4.6 percent.   
           The universal life products have credited interest rates of 1 percent to 8 percent and guarantees ranging
from 1 percent to 5.5 percent depending on the year of issue. Additionally, universal life funds are subject to surrender charges that amount to 9.7 percent of the aggregate fund
balance grading to zero over a period not longer than 20 years.   
           For variable products and investment contracts, policy values are expressed in terms of investment units. Each unit is
linked to an asset portfolio. The value of a unit increases or decreases based on the value of the linked asset portfolio. The current liability at any time is the sum of the current unit value of all
investment units plus any liability for guaranteed minimum death or withdrawal benefits.    

  Certain
products are subject to experience adjustments. These include group life and group medical products, credit life contracts, accident and health insurance contracts/riders attached to life
policies and, to a limited extent, reinsurance agreements with other direct insurers. Ultimate premiums from these contracts are estimated and recognized as revenue, and the unearned portions of the
premiums recorded as liabilities. Experience adjustments vary according to the type of contract and the territory in which the policy is in force and are subject to local regulatory guidance.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
285  

Table of Contents    

14. VARIABLE LIFE AND ANNUITY CONTRACTS

We report variable contracts within the separate accounts when investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the
contract holder (traditional variable annuities), and the separate account meets other accounting criteria to qualify for separate account treatment. The assets supporting the variable portions of
both traditional variable annuities and variable contracts with guarantees are carried at fair value and reported as separate account assets with an equivalent summary total reported as separate
account liabilities when the separate account qualifies for separate account treatment. Assets for separate accounts that do not qualify for separate account treatment are reported as trading account
assets, and liabilities are included in the respective policyholder liability account of the general account.   

We
also report variable annuity and life contracts through separate accounts, or general accounts when not qualified for separate account reporting, when we contractually guarantee to the contract
holder (variable contracts with guarantees) either (a) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (and in minor instances, no minimum returns) or
(b) the highest contract value attained, typically on any anniversary date minus any subsequent withdrawals following the contract anniversary. These guarantees include benefits that are
payable in the event of death, annuitization, or, in other instances, at specified dates during the accumulation period. Such benefits are referred to as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB),
guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). GMDB is our most widely offered benefit.   

  Amounts
assessed against the contract holders for mortality, administrative, and other services are included in revenue and changes in liabilities for minimum guarantees are included in Policyholder
benefits and claims incurred in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Separate account net investment income, net investment gains and losses, and the related liability changes are offset within
the same line item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for those accounts that qualify for separate account treatment. Net investment income and gains and losses on trading accounts for
contracts that do not qualify for separate account treatment are reported in Net investment income and are principally offset by amounts reported in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred.   

   The following table presents details concerning our GMDB exposures:   

(a)     Included
in Policyholder contract deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

  (b)     Represents
the amount of death benefit currently in excess of Account value.   

The following summarizes GMDB and GMIB liabilities for guarantees on variable contracts reflected in the general
account:   

The GMDB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing
the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. We regularly evaluate estimates used and adjust the additional liability balance, with a   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
286  

Table of Contents   

  related
charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.   

The
following assumptions and methodology were used to determine the GMDB liability at December 31, 2012:  

Data used was up to 1,000 stochastically generated investment performance scenarios.    
           Mean investment performance assumptions ranged from three percent to approximately ten percent depending on the block of
business.   
           Volatility assumption was 16 percent.   
           Mortality was assumed to be between 50 percent and 88 percent of the 1994 variable annuity minimum
guaranteed death benefit table for recent experience.   
           Lapse rates vary by contract type and duration and ranged from zero percent to 37 percent.    
           The discount rate ranged from 3.75 percent to 10 percent and is based on the growth rate assumption for the
underlying contracts in effect at the time of policy issuance.    

  In
addition to GMDB, our contracts currently include to a lesser extent GMIB. The GMIB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of the annuitization benefits in excess
of the projected account balance at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. We periodically evaluate estimates
used and adjust the additional liability balance, with a related
charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.   

  In
addition, our contracts currently include GMAV and GMWB benefits. GMAV and GMWB features are considered to be embedded derivatives and are recognized at fair value through earnings. We enter into
derivative contracts to economically hedge a portion of the exposure that arises from GMAV and GMWB benefits. At December 31, 2012, we had $19.8 billion of account values and
$1.3 billion of net amount at risk that was attributable to variable annuities with GMAV and GMWB benefits. See Note 6 herein for additional fair value disclosures.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
287  

Table of Contents   

15. DEBT OUTSTANDING

AIG's long-term debt is denominated in various currencies, with both fixed and variable interest rates. Long-term debt is carried at the principal
amount borrowed, including unamortized discounts, hedge accounting valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, where applicable. The interest rates presented in the following table reflect the
range of contractual rates in effect at year end, including fixed and variable rate issuances.   

   The following table lists our total debt outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The interest rates presented in the following table are the range of contractual
rates in effect at year end, including fixed and variable-rates:   

(a)     We
may currently redeem our 6.45% Series A-4 and our 7.7% Series A-5 junior subordinated debt at their respective principal amounts plus unpaid
accrued interest on any of their respective interest payment dates. The remaining junior subordinated debt is subject to call options that range from 2017-2038 and if we do not exercise
these call options, the interest rate will change from the referenced fixed interest rate to a floating rate. See further discussion under Junior Subordinated Debt below.   

(b)     DIB
notes and bonds include structured debt instruments whose payment terms are linked to one or more financial or other indices (such as equity index or commodity index or another
measure that is not considered to be clearly and closely related to the debt instrument). The DIB economically hedges its notes, bonds, and GIAs. As a result, certain of the interest rate or currency
exposures are hedged with floating rate instruments so the stated rates may not reflect the all-in cost of funding after taking into account the related hedges.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
288  

Table of Contents   
  
   (c)     Excludes
$24.3 billion of debt for ILFC at December 31, 2012 which has been reclassified to Liabilities of businesses held for sale.   

(d)     At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, includes debt of consolidated investments held through AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp., AIG Credit Corp. and SunAmerica of
$1.5 billion, $176 million and $133 million and $1.5 billion, $233 million and $91 million, respectively.   

The following table presents maturities of long-term debt (including unamortized original issue discount, hedge accounting
valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, when applicable), excluding $1.8 billion in borrowings of consolidated investments:   

Uncollateralized and collateralized notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable consisted of the following:   

*         AIG
does not guarantee any of these borrowings.   

Junior Subordinated Debt

During 2007 and 2008, we issued an aggregate of $12.5 billion of junior subordinated debentures denominated in U.S. dollars, British Pounds and Euros in eight series
of securities. In November 2011, we exchanged specified series of our outstanding junior subordinated debentures for newly issued senior notes pursuant to an exchange offer. In particular,we exchanged
(i) $312 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding Series A-1 Junior Subordinated Debentures for $256 million aggregate principal amount of
our new 6.820% Dollar notes due November 15, 2037, (ii)  812 million ($1.26 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal amount of
our outstanding Series A-2 and Series A-8 Junior Subordinated Debentures for  662 million ($1.03 billion at the
December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal amount of our new 6.765% Sterling notes due November 15, 2017 and (iii)  591 million
($766 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
289  

Table of Contents   

  amount
of our outstanding Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures for  421 million ($545 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange
rate) aggregate principal amount of our new 6.797% Euro notes due November 15, 2017. This exchange resulted in a pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately
$484 million, which is reflected in Net loss on extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and a deferred gain of $65 million, which will be amortized as a
reduction to future interest expense.   

  In
connection with the issuance of the eight series of junior subordinated debentures, we had entered into replacement capital covenants (the Original RCCs) for the benefit of the holders of "covered
debt" (a designated series of our notes). The Original RCCs provided that we would not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date,
unless we issued certain replacement capital securities. In August 2012, we issued an aggregate of $250 million of 2.375% Subordinated Notes due 2015 (the Subordinated Notes), which upon their
issuance became the "covered debt" under the Original RCCs. The holders of the newly issued Subordinated Notes, as the holders of the "covered debt" under the Original RCCs, consented to amendments to
each of those Original RCCs that deleted all of the covenants that restricted our ability to repay, redeem or purchase the applicable series of the junior subordinated debentures.   

  We
have entered into new replacement capital covenants (the New RCCs) for the initial benefit of the holders of the Subordinated Notes, in connection with our 5.75%
Series A-2 Junior Subordinated Debentures and our 4.875% Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures. We covenant in each New RCC that, subject to
certain exceptions, we will not repay, redeem or purchase, and that none of our subsidiaries will purchase, the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures prior to the scheduled termination
date of that New RCC, unless since the date 360 days prior to the date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, we have received a specified amount of net cash proceeds from the sale of
common stock or certain other qualifying securities that have certain characteristics that are at least as equity-like as the applicable characteristics of the applicable series of junior
subordinated debentures, or we or our subsidiaries have issued a specified amount of common stock in connection with the conversion or exchange of certain convertible or exchangeable securities.   

  We
may currently redeem our 6.45% Series A-4 Junior Subordinated Debentures and our 7.70% Series A-5 Junior Subordinated Debentures, in whole or in
part, at their respective principal amounts plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption.   

Liabilities Connected To Trust Preferred Stock

In connection with our acquisition of SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (SAFG, Inc.) in 2001, we entered into arrangements with SAFG, Inc. with
respect to outstanding SAFG, Inc. capital securities. In 1996, SAFG, Inc. issued capital securities through a trust to institutional investors and funded the trust with
SAFG, Inc. junior subordinated debentures issued to the trust. SAFG, Inc. guaranteed payments to the holders of capital securities only to the extent (i) the trust received
payments on the debentures and (ii) these payments were available for the trust to pay to holders of capital securities. In 2001, AIG Parent guaranteed the same payments to the holders
of capital securities. Like the SAFG, Inc. guarantee, the AIG Parent guarantee only applies to any payments actually made to the trust in respect of the debentures. If no payments are made on
the debentures, AIG Parent is not required to make any payments to the trust. AIG Parent also guaranteed the debentures pursuant to a guarantee that is expressly subordinated to certain
SAFG, Inc. senior debt securities. Under the AIG Parent guarantee, AIG Parent is not required to make any payments in respect of the debentures if such payment would be prohibited by the
subordination provisions of the debentures. As a result, AIG Parent will never be required to make a payment under its guarantee of the debentures for so long as SAFG, Inc. is prohibited from
making a payment on the debentures.   

  At
December 31, 2012, the preferred stock outstanding consisted of $300 million liquidation value of 8.5 percent preferred stock issued by American General Capital II in
June 2000, $500 million liquidation value of 8.125 percent preferred stock issued by American General Institutional Capital B in March 1997 and $500 million
liquidation value of 7.57 percent preferred stock issued by American General Institutional Capital A in December 1996.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
290  

Table of Contents   

Credit Facilities

On October 5, 2012, we terminated our previously outstanding $1.5 billion 364-Day syndicated credit facility and amended and restated the
four-year syndicated credit facility that was entered into in October 2011 (the Previous Facility). The amended and restated four-year syndicated credit facility, the
Four-Year Facility, provides for $4.0 billion of unsecured revolving loans (increased from $3.0 billion in the Previous Facility), which includes a $2.0 billion letter
of credit sublimit (increased from $1.5 billion in the Previous Facility). The approximately $1.0 billion of previously issued letters of credit under the Previous Facility were rolled
into the letter of credit sublimit within the Four-Year Facility. As a result, a total of approximately $3.0 billion remains available under the Four-Year Facility, of
which approximately $1.0 billion remains available for letters of credit. We expect that we may draw down on the Four-Year Facility from time to time, and may use the proceeds for
general corporate purposes. The Four Year Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit. The Four-Year Facility is summarized in the following table.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
291  

Table of Contents    

16. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES

In the normal course of business, various contingent liabilities and commitments are entered into by AIG and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, AIG guarantees various
obligations of certain subsidiaries.   

  AIG
recorded an increase in its estimated litigation liability of approximately $783 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 based on developments in several actions.   

  Although
AIG cannot currently quantify its ultimate liability for unresolved litigation and investigation matters, including those referred to below, it is possible that such liability could have a
material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition or its consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows for an individual reporting period.   

Legal Contingencies

Overview.       AIG and its subsidiaries, in
common with the insurance and financial services industries in general, are subject to litigation, including claims for punitive damages, in the normal course of their business. In AIG's insurance
operations (including UGC), litigation arising from claims settlement activities is generally considered in the establishment of AIG's liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense.
However, the potential for increasing jury awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate outcome of such litigation. AIG is also subject to derivative, class action and other claims
asserted by its shareholders and others alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duties by its directors and officers and violations of insurance laws and regulations, as well as federal and
state securities laws. In the case of any derivative action brought on behalf of AIG, any recovery would accrue to the benefit of AIG.   

  Various
regulatory and governmental agencies have been reviewing certain public disclosures, transactions and practices of AIG and its subsidiaries in connection with industry-wide and
other inquiries into, among other matters, AIG's liquidity, compensation paid to certain employees, payments made to counterparties, and certain business practices and valuations of current and former
operating insurance subsidiaries. AIG has cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing documents and other information in response to subpoenas and other requests.   

AIG's Subprime Exposure, AIGFP Credit Default Swap Portfolio and Related Matters

AIG, AIGFP and certain directors and officers of AIG, AIGFP and other AIG subsidiaries have been named in various actions relating to our exposure to the U.S. residential
subprime mortgage market, unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP's super senior credit default swap portfolio, losses and liquidity constraints relating to our securities lending program and
related disclosure and other matters (Subprime Exposure Issues).   

Consolidated 2008 Securities
Litigation.       Between May 21, 2008 and January 15, 2009, eight purported securities class action complaints
were filed against AIG and certain directors and officers of AIG and AIGFP, AIG's outside auditors, and the underwriters of various securities offerings in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York (the Southern District of New York), alleging claims under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or claims under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). On March 20, 2009, the Court consolidated all eight of the purported securities class actions as In re American International Group, Inc.
2008 Securities Litigation (the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation).   

  On
May 19, 2009, lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation filed a consolidated complaint on behalf of purchasers of AIG Common Stock during the alleged class period of
March 16, 2006 through September 16, 2008, and on behalf of purchasers of various AIG securities offered pursuant to AIG's shelf registration statements. The consolidated complaint
alleges that defendants made statements during the class period in press releases, AIG's quarterly and year-end filings, during conference calls, and in various registration statements and
prospectuses in connection with the various offerings that were materially false and misleading and that artificially inflated the price of AIG Common Stock. The alleged false and misleading
statements relate to, among other things, the Subprime Exposure Issues. The consolidated complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and
Sections 11, 12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act. On August 5, 2009, defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint, and on September 27, 2010, the Court
denied the motions to dismiss.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
292  

Table of Contents   

  On
April 1, 2011, the lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation filed a motion to certify a class of plaintiffs. On November 2, 2011, the Court terminated the motion
without prejudice to an application for restoration. On March 30, 2012, the lead plaintiff filed a renewed motion to certify a class of plaintiffs.   

  We
have accrued our estimate of probable loss with respect to this litigation.   

  On
November 18, 2011, January 20, 2012, June 11, 2012, and August 8, 2012, four separate, though similar, securities actions were brought against AIG and certain directors
and officers of AIG and AIGFP by the Kuwait Investment Authority, various Oppenheimer Funds, eight foreign funds and investment entities led by the British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme, and
Pacific Life Funds and Pacific Select Fund. As of February 21, 2013, no discussions concerning potential damages have occurred and the plaintiffs have not formally specified an amount of
alleged damages in their respective actions. As a result, we are unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from these litigations.   

ERISA Actions   Southern District of New
York.       Between June 25, 2008, and November 25, 2008, AIG, certain directors and officers of AIG, and
members of AIG's Retirement Board and Investment Committee were named as defendants in eight purported class action complaints asserting claims on behalf of participants in certain pension plans
sponsored by AIG or its subsidiaries. The Court subsequently consolidated these eight actions as In re American International Group, Inc. ERISA Litigation II. On September 4,
2012, lead plaintiffs' counsel filed a second consolidated amended complaint. The action purports to be brought as a class action under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended (ERISA), on behalf of all participants in or beneficiaries of certain benefit plans of AIG and its subsidiaries that offered shares of AIG Common Stock. In the consolidated amended complaint,
plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary responsibilities to plan participants and their beneficiaries under ERISA, by continuing to offer the AIG Stock Fund
as an investment option in the plans after it allegedly became imprudent to do so. The alleged ERISA violations relate to, among other things, the defendants' purported failure to monitor and/or
disclose certain matters, including the Subprime Exposure Issues.   

  On
November 20, 2012, defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.   

  As
of February 21, 2013, plaintiffs have not formally specified an amount of alleged damages, discovery is ongoing, and the Court has not determined if a class action is appropriate or the size
or scope of any class. As a result, we are unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

Canadian Securities Class Action   Ontario Superior Court of
Justice.       On November 12, 2008, an application was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice for leave to
bring a purported class action against AIG, AIGFP, certain directors and officers of AIG and Joseph Cassano, the former Chief Executive Officer of AIGFP, pursuant to the Ontario Securities Act. If the
Court grants the application, a class plaintiff will be permitted to file a statement of claim against defendants. The proposed statement of claim would assert a class period of
March 16, 2006 through September 16, 2008 and would allege that during this period defendants made false and misleading statements and omissions in quarterly and annual reports and
during oral presentations in violation of the Ontario Securities Act.   

  On
April 17, 2009, defendants filed a motion record in support of their motion to stay or dismiss for lack of jurisdiction and forum non conveniens. On July 12, 2010, the Court adjourned
a hearing on the motion pending a decision by the Supreme Court of Canada in a pair of actions captioned Club Resorts Ltd. v. Van Breda 2012 SCC 17 (Van Breda). On April 18, 2012,
the Supreme Court of Canada clarified the standard for determining jurisdiction over foreign and out-of-province defendants, such as AIG, by holding that a defendant must have
some form of "actual," as opposed to a merely "virtual," presence in order to be deemed to be "doing business" in the jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of Canada also suggested that in future cases,
defendants may contest jurisdiction even when they are found to be doing business in a Canadian jurisdiction if their business activities in the jurisdiction are unrelated to the subject matter of the
litigation. The matter has been stayed pending further developments in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation.   

In
plaintiff's proposed statement of claim, plaintiff alleged general and special damages of $500 million and punitive damages of $50 million plus prejudgment interest or such other sums
as the Court finds appropriate. As of February 21, 2013 the Court has not determined whether it has jurisdiction or granted plaintiff's application to file a statement of claim, no
merits discovery has occurred and the action has been stayed. As a result, we are unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
293  

Table of Contents   

Starr International Litigation

On November 21, 2011, Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO) filed a complaint against the United States in the United States Court of Federal Claims (the
Court of Federal Claims), bringing claims, both individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated and derivatively on behalf of AIG (the SICO Treasury Action). The complaint challenges the
government's assistance of AIG, pursuant to which AIG entered into the FRBNY Credit Facility and the United States received an approximately 80 percent ownership in AIG. The complaint alleges
that the interest rate imposed on AIG and the appropriation of approximately 80 percent of AIG's equity was discriminatory, unprecedented, and inconsistent with liquidity assistance offered by
the government to other
comparable firms at the time and violated the Equal Protection, Due Process, and Takings Clauses of the U.S. Constitution.   

On
November 21, 2011, SICO also filed a second complaint in the Southern District of New York against the FRBNY bringing claims, both individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated
and derivatively on behalf of AIG (the SICO New York Action). This complaint also challenges the government's assistance of AIG, pursuant to which AIG entered into the FRBNY Credit Facility and the
United States received an approximately 80 percent ownership in AIG. The complaint alleges that the FRBNY owed fiduciary duties to AIG as our controlling shareholder, and that the FRBNY
breached these fiduciary duties by "divert[ing] the rights and assets of AIG and its shareholders to itself and favored third parties" through transactions involving
ML III, an entity controlled by the FRBNY, and by "participating in, and causing AIG's officers and directors to participate in, the evasion of AIG's existing Common Stock shareholders' right
to approve the massive issuance of the new Common Shares required to complete the government's taking of a nearly 80 percent interest in the Common Stock of AIG." SICO also alleges that the
"FRBNY has asserted that in exercising its control over, and acting on behalf of, AIG it did not act in an official, governmental capacity or at the direction of the United States," but that
"[t]o the extent the proof at or prior to trial shows that the FRBNY did in fact act in a governmental capacity, or at the direction of the United States, the improper conduct
.. . . constitutes the discriminatory takings of the property and property rights of AIG without due process or just compensation."   

  On
January 31, 2012 and February 1, 2012, amended complaints were filed in the Court of Federal Claims and the Southern District of New York, respectively.   

In
rulings dated July 2, 2012, and September 17, 2012, the Court of Federal Claims largely denied the United States' motion to dismiss in the SICO Treasury Action. Discovery is
proceeding. On December 3, 2012, SICO moved for class certification.   

  On
November 19, 2012, the Southern District of New York granted the FRBNY's motion to dismiss the SICO New York Action. On December 21, 2012, SICO filed a notice of appeal in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.   

  The
United States has alleged, as an affirmative defense in its answer, that AIG is obligated to indemnify the FRBNY and its representatives, including the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and the
United States (as the FRBNY's principal), for any recovery in the SICO Treasury Action, and seeks a contingent offset or recoupment for the value of net operating loss benefits the United States
alleges that we received as a result of the government's assistance. The FRBNY has also requested indemnification under the FRBNY Credit Facility from AIG in connection with the SICO New York Action
and from ML III under the Master Investment and Credit Agreement and the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of ML III.   

  In
both of the actions commenced by SICO, the only claims naming AIG as a party (nominal defendant) are derivative claims on behalf of AIG. On September 21, 2012, SICO made a
pre-litigation demand on our Board demanding that we pursue the derivative claims in both actions or allow SICO to pursue the claims on our behalf. On January 9, 2013, our Board
unanimously refused SICO's demand in its entirety and on January 23, 2013, counsel for the Board sent a letter to counsel for SICO describing the process by which our Board considered and
refused SICO's demand and stating the reasons for our Board's determination.   

Other Litigation Related to AIGFP

On September 30, 2009, Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. and Brysons International, Ltd. (together, Brookfield) filed a complaint against AIG and AIGFP
in the Southern District of New York. Brookfield seeks a declaration that a   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
294  

Table of Contents   

  1990
interest rate swap agreement between Brookfield and AIGFP (guaranteed by AIG) terminated upon the occurrence of certain alleged events that Brookfield contends constituted defaults under the swap
agreement's standard "bankruptcy" default provision. Brookfield claims that it is excused from all future payment obligations under the swap agreement on the basis of the purported termination. At
December 31, 2012, the estimated present value of expected future cash flows discounted at LIBOR was $1.5 billion, which represents our maximum contractual loss from the alleged
termination of the contract. It is our position that no termination event has occurred and that the swap agreement remains in effect. A determination that a termination event has occurred could result
in a loss of our entitlement to all future payments under the swap agreement and result in a loss to us of the full value at which we are carrying the swap agreement.   

  Additionally,
a determination that AIG triggered a "bankruptcy" event of default under the swap agreement could also, depending on the Court's precise holding, affect other AIG or AIGFP agreements
that contain the same or similar default provisions. Such a determination could also affect derivative agreements or other contracts between third parties, such as credit default swaps under which AIG
is a reference credit, which could affect the trading price of AIG securities. During the third quarter of 2011, beneficiaries of certain previously repaid AIGFP guaranteed investment
agreements brought an action against AIG Parent and AIGFP making "bankruptcy" event of default allegations similar to those made by Brookfield. The Court subsequently issued a decision dismissing that
action, which is currently on appeal.   

Employment Litigation against AIG and AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation.

Fitzpatrick matter.       On December 9,
2009, AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation's (AIGGRE) former President, Kevin P. Fitzpatrick, several entities he controls, and various other single purpose entities (the SPEs) filed a
complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County against AIG and AIGGRE (the Defendants). The case was removed to the Southern District of New York, and an amended complaint
was filed on March 8, 2010. The amended complaint asserts that the Defendants violated fiduciary duties to Fitzpatrick and his controlled entities and breached Fitzpatrick's employment
agreement and agreements of SPEs that purportedly entitled him to carried interest fees arising out of the sale or disposition of certain real estate. Fitzpatrick has also brought derivative claims on
behalf of the SPEs, purporting to allege that the Defendants breached contractual and fiduciary duties in failing to fund the SPEs with various amounts allegedly due under the SPE agreements.
Fitzpatrick has also requested injunctive relief, an accounting, and that a receiver be appointed to manage the affairs of the SPEs. He has further alleged that the SPEs are subject to a constructive
trust. Fitzpatrick also has alleged a violation of ERISA relating to retirement benefits purportedly due. Fitzpatrick has claimed that he is currently owed damages totaling approximately
$196 million, and that potential future amounts owed to him are approximately $78 million, for a total of approximately $274 million. Fitzpatrick further claims unspecified
amounts of carried interest on certain additional real estate assets of AIG and its affiliates. He also seeks punitive damages for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. Defendants assert that
Fitzpatrick has been paid all amounts currently due and owing pursuant to the various agreements through which he seeks recovery. As set forth above, the possible range of our loss is $0 to
$274 million, although Fitzpatrick claims that he is also entitled to additional unspecified amounts of carried interest and punitive damages.   

Behm matter.       Frank Behm, former President of
AIG Global Real Estate Asia Pacific, Inc. (AIGGREAP), has filed two actions in connection with the termination of his employment. Behm filed an action on or about October 1, 2010 in
Delaware Superior Court in which he asserts claims of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing for termination in violation of public policy, deprivation of compensation, and breach
of contract. Additionally, on or about March 29, 2011, Behm filed an arbitration proceeding before the American Arbitration Association alleging wrongful termination, in which he sought the
payment of carried interest or "promote" distributed through the SPEs, based on the sales of certain real estate assets. Behm also contended that he was entitled to promote as a third-party
beneficiary of Kevin Fitzpatrick's employment agreement, which, Behm claimed, defined
broadly a class of individuals, allegedly including himself, who, with the approval of our former Chief Investment Officer, became eligible to receive promote payments. Behm claimed approximately
$67 million in carried interest. Multiple AIG entities (the AIG Entities) are named as parties in each of the Behm matters. The AIG Entities have filed a counterclaim in the Delaware case,
contending that Behm owes them approximately $3.6 million (before pre-judgment interest) in tax equalization payments made by the AIG Entities on Behm's behalf.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
295  

Table of Contents   

  Both
matters filed by Behm are premised on the same key allegations. Behm claims that the AIG Entities wrongfully terminated him from AIGGREAP in an effort to silence him for voicing opposition to
allegedly improper practices concerning the amount of AIG reserves for carried interest that Behm contends is due to him and others. The AIG Entities contend that their reserves are appropriate, as
Behm's claims for additional carried interest are without merit. Behm claims that, when he refused to accede to the AIG Entities' position as to the amount of carried interest due, he was targeted for
investigation and subsequently terminated, purportedly for providing confidential AIG information to a competitor, and its executive search firm. Behm argues that he did not disclose any confidential
information; instead, he met with several of the competitor's representatives in order to foster interest in purchasing AIGGREAP.   

  On
November 16, 2012, the arbitration panel ruled on Behm's claims that had been submitted to arbitration (the Award). Pursuant to the Award, on December 15, 2012, the AIG Entities paid
Behm approximately $10.5 million in full settlement of all claims submitted to the arbitration, with the exception that Behm retained rights to certain future profit interests. The AIG Entities
also paid Behm a portion of the fees and costs of the arbitration.   

  The
Delaware Superior Court action is currently in discovery, and Behm has not articulated the specific amounts of money that he claims are due. As a result, we are unable to reasonably estimate the
possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

False Claims Act Complaint

On February 25, 2010, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California by two individuals (Relators) seeking to
assert claims on behalf of the United States against AIG and certain other defendants, including Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, under the False Claims Act. Relators filed a First Amended Complaint
on September 30, 2010, adding certain additional defendants, including Bank of America and Soci t  G n rale. The amended complaint
alleges that defendants engaged in fraudulent business practices in respect of their activities in the over-the-counter market for collateralized debt obligations, and
submitted false claims to the United States in connection with the FRBNY Credit Facility and the ML II and ML III entities (the Maiden Lane Interests) through, among other things,
misrepresenting AIG's ability and intent to repay amounts drawn on the FRBNY Credit Facility, and misrepresenting the value of the securities that the Maiden Lane Interests acquired from AIG and
certain of its counterparties. The complaint seeks unspecified damages pursuant to the False Claims Act in the amount of three times the damages allegedly sustained by the United States as well as
interest, attorneys' fees, costs and expenses. The complaint and amended complaints were initially filed and maintained under seal while the United States considered whether to intervene in the
action. On or about April 28, 2011, after the United States declined to intervene, the District Court lifted the seal, and Relators served the amended complaint on us on July 11, 2011.
The Relators have not specified in their amended complaint an amount of alleged damages. As a result, we are unable reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from
the litigation.   

2006 Regulatory Settlements and Related Regulatory Matters

2006 Regulatory Settlements.       In
February 2006, AIG reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Office of
the New York Attorney General (NYAG) and the New York State Department of Insurance (DOI). The settlements resolved investigations conducted by the SEC, NYAG and DOI in connection with the accounting,
financial reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its subsidiaries, as well as claims relating to the underpayment of certain workers' compensation premium taxes and other assessments.
These settlements did not, however, resolve investigations by regulators from other states into insurance brokerage practices related to contingent commissions and other broker-related conduct, such
as alleged bid rigging. Nor did the settlements resolve any obligations that AIG may have to state guarantee funds in connection with any of these matters.   

  As
a result of these settlements, AIG made payments or placed amounts in escrow in 2006 totaling approximately $1.64 billion, $225 million of which represented fines and
penalties.   

  In
addition to the escrowed funds, $800 million was deposited into, and subsequently disbursed by, a fund under the supervision of the SEC, to resolve claims asserted against AIG by investors,
including the securities class action and shareholder lawsuits described below.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
296  

Table of Contents   

  A
portion of the total $1.64 billion originally placed in escrow was designated to satisfy certain regulatory and litigation liabilities related to workers' compensation premium reporting
issues. The original workers' compensation escrow amount was approximately $338 million and was placed in an account established as part of the 2006 New York
regulatory settlement and referred to as the Workers' Compensation Fund. Additional money was placed into escrow accounts as a result of subsequent litigation and regulatory settlements bringing the
total workers' compensation escrow amount to approximately $597 million. Approximately $147 million was released from the workers' compensation escrow accounts in satisfaction of fines,
penalties and premium tax obligations, which were imposed pursuant to a December 17, 2010 regulatory settlement agreement relating to workers' compensation premium reporting issues that was
deemed final and effective on May 29, 2012. Following this disbursement, approximately $450 million remains in escrow and is specifically designated to satisfy class action liabilities
related to workers' compensation premium reporting issues. This amount is included in Other assets at December 31, 2012.   

  On
February 1, 2012, AIG was informed by the SEC that AIG had complied with the terms of the settlement order under which AIG had agreed to retain an independent consultant, and as of that
date, was no longer subject to such order.   

Litigation Related to the Matters Underlying the 2006 Regulatory Settlements

AIG and certain present and former directors and officers of AIG have been named in various actions related to the matters underlying the 2006 Regulatory Settlements. These
actions are described below.   

The Consolidated 2004 Securities
Litigation.       Beginning in October 2004, a number of putative securities fraud class action suits were filed in the
Southern District of New York against AIG and consolidated as In re American International Group, Inc. Securities Litigation (the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation). Subsequently, a
separate, though similar, securities fraud action was also brought against AIG by certain Florida pension funds. The lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation is a group of public
retirement systems and pension funds benefiting Ohio state employees, suing on behalf of themselves and all purchasers of AIG's publicly traded securities between October 28, 1999 and
April 1, 2005. The named defendants are AIG and a number of present and former AIG officers and directors, as well as C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. (Starr), SICO, General
Reinsurance Corporation, and PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, among others. The lead plaintiff alleges, among other things, that AIG: (i) concealed that it engaged in
anti-competitive conduct through alleged payment of contingent commissions to brokers and participation in illegal bid-rigging; (ii) concealed that it used "income
smoothing" products and other techniques to inflate its earnings; (iii) concealed that it marketed and sold "income smoothing" insurance products to other companies; and (iv) misled
investors about the scope of government
investigations. In addition, the lead plaintiff alleges that Maurice R. Greenberg, AIG's former Chief Executive Officer, manipulated our stock price. The lead plaintiff asserts claims for violations
of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Sections 20(a) and Section 20A
of the Exchange Act.   

  On
July 14, 2010, AIG approved the terms of a settlement (the Settlement) with lead plaintiffs. The Settlement is conditioned on, among other things, court approval and a minimum level of
shareholder participation. Under the terms of the Settlement, if consummated, AIG would pay an aggregate of $725 million. Only two shareholders objected to the Settlement, and 25 shareholders
claiming to hold less than 1.5 percent of AIG's outstanding shares at the end of the class period submitted timely and valid requests to opt out of the class. Of those 25 shareholders, seven
are investment funds controlled by the same investment group, and that investment group is the only opt-out who held more than 1,000 shares at the end of the class period. By order dated
February 2, 2012, the District Court granted lead plaintiffs' motion for final approval of the Settlement. AIG has fully funded the amount of the Settlement into an escrow account.   

  On
January 23, 2012, AIG and the Florida pension funds, who had brought a separate securities fraud action, executed a settlement agreement under which AIG paid $4 million.   

  On
February 17, 2012 and March 6, 2012, two objectors appealed the final approval of the Settlement. On September 27, 2012, the two objectors withdrew their appeals with
prejudice.   

The Multi-District Litigation.       Commencing
in 2004, policyholders brought multiple federal antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) class actions in jurisdictions across the nation against insurers and
brokers, including AIG and a number of its subsidiaries, alleging that the insurers and brokers engaged in one or   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
297  

Table of Contents   

  more
broad conspiracies to allocate customers, steer business, and rig bids. These actions, including 24 complaints filed in different federal courts naming AIG or an AIG subsidiary as a defendant,
were consolidated by the judicial panel on multi-district litigation and transferred to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (District of New Jersey) for coordinated
pretrial proceedings. The consolidated actions have proceeded in that Court in two parallel actions, In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation (the Commercial Complaint) and In re Employee
Benefits Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation (the Employee Benefits Complaint, and, together with the Commercial Complaint, the Multi-District Litigation).   

  The
plaintiffs in the Commercial Complaint are a group of corporations, individuals and public entities that contracted with the broker defendants for the provision of insurance brokerage services for
a variety of insurance needs. The broker defendants are alleged to have placed insurance coverage on the plaintiffs' behalf with a number of insurance
companies named as defendants, including AIG subsidiaries. The Commercial Complaint also named various brokers and other insurers as defendants (three of which have since settled). The Commercial
Complaint alleges that defendants engaged in a number of overlapping "broker-centered" conspiracies to allocate customers through the payment of contingent commissions to brokers and through purported
"bid-rigging" practices. It also alleges that the insurer and broker defendants participated in a "global" conspiracy not to disclose to policyholders the payment of contingent
commissions. Plaintiffs assert that the defendants violated the Sherman Antitrust Act, RICO, and the antitrust laws of 48 states and the District of Columbia, and are liable under common law breach of
fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment theories. Plaintiffs seek treble damages plus interest and attorneys' fees as a result of the alleged RICO and Sherman Antitrust Act violations.   

  The
plaintiffs in the Employee Benefits Complaint are a group of individual employees and corporate and municipal employers alleging claims on behalf of two separate nationwide purported classes: an
employee class and an employer class that acquired insurance products from the defendants from January 1, 1998 to December 31, 2004. The Employee Benefits Complaint names AIG as well as
various other brokers and insurers, as defendants. The activities alleged in the Employee Benefits Complaint, with certain exceptions, track the allegations of customer allocation through steering and
bid-rigging made in the Commercial Complaint.   

  On
August 16, 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the Third Circuit) affirmed the dismissal of the Employee Benefits Complaint in its entirety, affirmed in part and
vacated in part the District Court's dismissal of the Commercial Complaint, and remanded the case for further proceedings consistent with the opinion. On March 30, 2012, the District Court
granted final approval of a settlement between AIG and certain other defendants on the one hand, and class plaintiffs on the other, which settled the claims asserted against those defendants in the
Commercial Complaint. Pursuant to the settlement, AIG will pay approximately $7 million of a total aggregate settlement amount of approximately $37 million. On April 27, 2012,
notices of appeal of the District Court order granting final approval were filed in the Third Circuit. As of December 5, 2012, the Third Circuit had dismissed all appeals from the District
Court order granting final approval of the settlement. On January 16, 2013, class plaintiffs filed a motion in the District Court seeking an order authorizing distribution of the settlement
fund.   

  A
number of complaints making allegations similar to those in the Multi-District Litigation have been filed against AIG and other defendants in state and federal courts around the country. The
defendants have thus far been successful in having the federal actions transferred to the District of New Jersey and consolidated into the Multi-District Litigation. Two consolidated actions naming
AIG defendants are still pending in the District of New Jersey. In the consolidated action    The Heritage Corp. of South Florida v. National Union Fire Ins. Co.
(Heritage)   , an individual plaintiff alleges damages "in excess of $75,000." Because discovery has not been completed and a precise amount of damages has not been specified, AIG
is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the    Heritage    litigation. As of February 21, 2013, the
plaintiff in    Avery Dennison Corp. v. Marsh   McLennan Companies, Inc. (Avery)   , the other remaining consolidated action has not
formally specified an amount of alleged damages. AIG is therefore unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from this matter.   

Finally,
the AIG defendants have settled the four state court actions filed in Florida, New Jersey, Texas, and Kansas state courts, where plaintiffs had made similar allegations as those asserted in
the Multi-District Litigation.   

Workers' Compensation Premium Reporting.       On
May 24, 2007, the National Council on Compensation Insurance (NCCI), on behalf of the participating members of the National Workers' Compensation
Reinsurance Pool (the NWCRP), filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the Northern   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
298  

Table of Contents   

  District
of Illinois) against us with respect to the underpayment by AIG of its residual market assessments for workers' compensation insurance. The complaint alleged claims for violations of RICO,
breach of contract, fraud and related state law claims arising out of our alleged underpayment of these assessments between 1970 and the present and sought damages purportedly in excess of
$1 billion.   

  On
April 1, 2009, Safeco Insurance Company of America (Safeco) and Ohio Casualty Insurance Company (Ohio Casualty) filed a complaint in the Northern District of Illinois, on behalf of a
purported class of all NWCRP participant members, against AIG and certain of its subsidiaries with respect to the underpayment by AIG of its residual market assessments for workers' compensation
insurance. The complaint was styled as an "alternative complaint," should the Northern District of Illinois grant our motion to dismiss the NCCI lawsuit for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, which
motion to dismiss was ultimately granted on August 23, 2009. The allegations in the class action complaint are substantially similar to those filed by the NWCRP.   

  On
February 28, 2012, the Northern District of Illinois entered a final order and judgment approving a class action settlement between us and a group of intervening plaintiffs, made up of seven
participating members of the NWCRP, which would require AIG to pay $450 million to satisfy all liabilities to the class members arising out of the workers' compensation premium reporting
issues, a portion of which would be funded out of the remaining amount held in the Workers' Compensation Fund. Liberty Mutual filed papers in opposition to approval of the proposed settlement and in
opposition to certification of a settlement class, in which it alleged our actual exposure, should the class action continue through judgment, to be in excess of $3 billion. We dispute this
allegation. Liberty Mutual and its subsidiaries Safeco and Ohio Casualty subsequently appealed the Northern District of Illinois' final order and judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit (the Seventh Circuit). On January 10, 2013, AIG and Liberty Mutual entered into a settlement under which Liberty Mutual, Safeco and Ohio Casualty agreed voluntarily to withdraw
their appeals. In furtherance of such settlement, AIG, the Liberty Mutual parties and the settlement class plaintiffs submitted an agreed stipulation of dismissal that is currently under review by the
Seventh Circuit.   

  The
$450 million settlement amount, which is currently held in escrow pending final resolution of the class-action settlement, was funded in part from the approximately $191 million
remaining in the Workers' Compensation Fund. In the event that the settlement between AIG and Liberty Mutual is not approved, the appeal of the order and judgment approving the class action settlement
may resume. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accrued liability equal to the amounts payable under the settlement.   

Litigation Matters Relating to AIG's Insurance Operations

Caremark.       AIG and certain of its
subsidiaries have been named defendants in two putative class actions in state court in Alabama that arise out of the 1999 settlement of class and derivative litigation involving
Caremark Rx, Inc. (Caremark). The plaintiffs in the second-filed action intervened in the first-filed action, and the second-filed action was dismissed. An excess policy issued by a
subsidiary of AIG with respect to the 1999 litigation was expressly stated to be without limit of liability. In the current actions, plaintiffs allege that the judge approving the 1999 settlement was
misled as to the extent of available insurance coverage and would not have approved the settlement had he known of the existence and/or unlimited nature of the excess policy. They further allege that
AIG, its subsidiaries, and Caremark are liable for fraud and suppression for misrepresenting and/or concealing the nature and extent of coverage.   

  The
complaints filed by the plaintiffs and the intervenors request compensatory damages for the 1999 class in the amount of $3.2 billion, plus punitive damages. AIG and its subsidiaries deny
the allegations of fraud and suppression, assert that information concerning the excess policy was publicly disclosed months prior to the approval of the settlement, that the claims are barred by the
statute of limitations, and that the statute cannot be tolled in light of the public disclosure of the excess coverage. The plaintiffs and intervenors, in turn, have asserted that the disclosure was
insufficient to inform them of the nature of the coverage and did not start the running of the statute of limitations.   

  On
August 15, 2012, the trial court entered an order granting plaintiffs' motion for class certification. AIG and the other defendants have appealed that order to the Alabama Supreme Court, and
the case in the trial court will be stayed until that appeal is resolved. General discovery has not commenced and AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any,
arising from the litigation.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
299  

Table of Contents    

Regulatory Matters       AIG's life insurance
companies have received industry-wide regulatory inquiries, including a multi-state audit and market conduct examination covering compliance with unclaimed property laws and a directive
from the New York Insurance Department regarding claims settlement practices and other related state regulatory inquiries. AIG recorded an increase of $55 million in policyholders benefit
reserves in the third quarter of 2012 in conjunction with the resolution of the multi-state examinations relating to the handling of unclaimed property and the use of the Social Security Death
Master File (SSDMF) to identify potential claims not yet presented to AIG in the normal course of business. In addition, AIG paid an $11 million regulatory assessment to the various state
insurance departments that are parties to the regulatory settlement to defray costs of their examinations and monitoring. Although AIG has enhanced its claims practices to include use of the SSDMF, it
is possible that the settlement remediation requirements, remaining inquiries, other regulatory activity or litigation could result in the payment of additional amounts. AIG has also received a demand
letter from a purported AIG shareholder requesting that the Board of Directors investigate these matters, and bring appropriate legal proceedings against any person identified by the investigation as
engaging in misconduct. AIG believes it has adequately reserved for such claims, but there can be no assurance that the ultimate cost will not vary, perhaps materially, from its estimate.   

  In
connection with the previously disclosed multi-state examination of certain accident and health products, including travel products, issued by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh,
Pa. (National Union), Chartis Inc., on behalf of itself, National Union, and certain of Chartis Inc.'s insurance and non-insurance companies (collectively, the Chartis
parties) entered into a Regulatory Settlement Agreement with regulators from 50 U.S. jurisdictions effective November 29, 2012. Under the agreement, and without admitting any liability
for the issues raised in the examination, the Chartis parties (i) paid a civil penalty of $50 million, (ii) entered into a corrective action plan describing
agreed-upon specific steps and standards for evaluating the Chartis parties' ongoing compliance with laws and regulations governing the issues identified in the examination, and
(iii) agreed to pay a contingent fine in the event that the Chartis parties fail to satisfy certain terms of the corrective action plan. National Union and other AIG companies are also
currently subject to civil litigation relating to the conduct of their accident and health business, and may be subject to additional litigation relating to the conduct of such business from time to
time in the ordinary course. There can be no assurance that any regulatory action resulting from the issues identified will not have a material adverse effect on AIG's ongoing operations of the
business subject to the agreement, or on similar business written by other AIG carriers.   

  Industry-wide
examinations conducted by the Minnesota Department of Insurance and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on captive reinsurance practices by lenders and
mortgage insurance companies, including UGC, have been ongoing for several years. In 2011, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") assumed responsibility for violations of the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act from HUD, and assumed HUD's aforementioned ongoing investigation. In June 2012, the CFPB issued a Civil Investigative Demand ("CID") to UGC and other mortgage
insurance companies, requesting the production of documents and answers to written questions. The CFPB agreed to toll the deadlines associated with the CID pending discussions that could resolve the
investigation. Although UGC filed a petition to modify the CID on December 7, 2012, ending the tolling period, the discussions that could resolve the investigation are still ongoing. UGC has
received a proposed consent order from the Minnesota Commissioner of Commerce (the MN Commissioner) which alleges that UGC violated the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting
Act and other state and federal laws in connection with its practices with captive reinsurance companies owned by lenders. UGC engaged in discussions with the MN Commissioner with respect to the terms
of the proposed consent order. UGC cannot predict if or when a consent order may be entered into or, if entered into, what the terms of the final consent order will be. UGC is also currently subject
to civil litigation relating to its placement of reinsurance with captives owned by lenders, and may be subject to additional litigation relating to the conduct of such business from time to time in
the ordinary course.   

Other Contingencies

Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense

Although we regularly review the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there can be no assurance that our loss reserves will
not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process, particularly for
long-tail casualty lines of business, which include, but are not limited to, general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers' compensation, excess casualty and
crisis management   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
300  

Table of Contents   

  coverages,
insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, directors and officers and
products liability. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be
the same as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial
loss reserve estimates for any accident year. There is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development
factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in economic conditions in the United States and
abroad, changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment, changes in medical cost trends (inflation, intensity and utilization of medical services), underlying policy pricing, terms
and conditions, and claims handling practices.   

Lease Commitments

We occupy leased space in many locations under various long-term leases and have entered into various leases covering the long-term use of data
processing equipment.   

   The following table presents the future minimum lease payments under operating leases:   

Rent expense was $445 million, $482 million and $587 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. These amounts include $16 million, $37 million and $129 million attributable to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010, respectively.   

Flight Equipment Related to Business Held for Sale

At December 31, 2012, ILFC had committed to purchase 229 new aircraft with aggregate estimated total remaining payments of approximately $17.5 billion,
including four aircraft through sale-leaseback transactions with airlines deliverable from 2012 through 2019. ILFC had also committed to purchase five used aircraft and nine
new spare engines. ILFC also has the right to purchase an additional 50 Airbus A320neo family narrowbody aircraft. ILFC will be required to find lessees for any aircraft acquired and to arrange
financing for a substantial portion of the purchase price. These commitments are related to discontinued operations and will not be retained by AIG upon closing of the sale. See Note 4 herein,
for a discussion of the ILFC transaction.   

   The following table presents the minimum future rental income on noncancelable operating leases of flight equipment that has been delivered:   

Flight equipment is leased under operating leases with remaining terms ranging from one to fourteen years.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
301  

Table of Contents   

Other Commitments

In the normal course of business, we enter into commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equity funds, hedge funds and mutual funds and to purchase and develop
real estate in the U.S. and abroad. These commitments totaled $2.3 billion at December 31, 2012.   

Guarantees

Subsidiaries

We have issued unconditional guarantees with respect to the prompt payment, when due, of all present and future payment obligations and liabilities of AIGFP and AIG Markets
arising from transactions entered into by AIGFP and AIG Markets, respectively.   

  In
connection with AIGFP's business activities, AIGFP has issued, in a limited number of transactions, standby letters of credit or similar facilities to equity investors in an amount equal to the
termination value owing to the equity investor by the lessee in the event of a lessee default (the equity termination value). The total amount outstanding at December 31, 2012 was
$306 million. In those transactions, AIGFP has agreed to pay such amount if the lessee fails to pay. The amount payable by AIGFP is, in certain cases, partially offset by amounts payable under
other instruments typically equal to the present value of scheduled payments to be made by AIGFP. In the event that AIGFP is required to make a payment to the equity investor, the lessee is
unconditionally obligated to reimburse AIGFP. To the extent that the equity investor is paid the equity termination value from the standby letter of credit and/or other sources, including payments by
the lessee, AIGFP takes an assignment of the equity investor's rights under the lease of the underlying property. Because the obligations of the lessee under the lease transactions are generally
economically defeased, lessee bankruptcy is the most likely circumstance in which AIGFP would be required to pay.   

Asset Dispositions

General

We are subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with the completed sales of businesses pursuant to our asset disposition plan. The various
arrangements may be triggered by, among other things, declines in asset values, the occurrence of specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent liabilities, developments in
litigation or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These arrangements are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law,
such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or are not applicable.   

  We
are unable to develop a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential payout under certain of these arrangements. Overall, we believe that it is unlikely it will have to make any material payments
related to completed sales under these arrangements, and no material liabilities related to these arrangements have been recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 4 herein for
additional information on sales of businesses and asset dispositions.   

ALICO Sale

Pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement, we have agreed to provide MetLife with certain indemnities. The most significant remaining indemnities
include:  

Indemnifications related to specific product, investment, litigation and other matters that are excluded from the general
representations and warranties indemnity. These indemnifications provide for various deductible amounts, which in certain cases are zero, and maximum exposures, which in certain cases are unlimited,
and may extend for various periods after the completion of the sale.  
           Tax indemnifications related to insurance reserves that extend for taxable periods ending on or before December 31,
2013 and that are limited to an aggregate of $200 million, and certain other tax-related    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
302  

Table of Contents   

representations
and warranties that extend to the expiration of the statute of limitations and are subject to an aggregate deductible of $50 million.   

In
connection with the indemnity obligations described above, as of December 31, 2012, approximately $567 million of proceeds from the sale of ALICO were on deposit in an escrow
arrangement. Under the terms of a letter agreement between MetLife and us entered into on April 26, 2012, $44 million was released to us on April 30, 2012 which represented funds
that were initially held back from the release of escrow to us on November 1, 2011. Under the terms of a letter agreement between MetLife and us entered into on July 13, 2012,
$950 million was released to us on August 31, 2012 instead of November 1, 2012 as originally provided under the ALICO stock purchase agreement. An additional $33 million
was released on November 8, 2012. The amount required to be held in escrow declines to zero in May 2013, although indemnification claims then pending will reduce the amount that can be
released to us.   

Other

See Note 11 herein for commitments and guarantees associated with VIEs.    
           See Note 12 herein for disclosures on derivatives.  
           See Note 27 herein for additional disclosures on guarantees of outstanding debt.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
303  

Table of Contents   

17. TOTAL EQUITY

Shares Outstanding

The following table presents a rollforward of outstanding shares:   

Preferred Stock and Recapitalization

At December 31, 2010, a total of $7.5 billion was outstanding under the Department of the Treasury's commitment (the Department of the Treasury Commitment
(Series F)) pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2009 (the Series F SPA), between AIG and the Department of the Treasury relating to our the
Series F Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series F Preferred Stock). On January 14, 2011, we completed the
Recapitalization in which the Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series C Preferred Stock), Series E Fixed Rate
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series E Preferred Stock) and the Series F Preferred Stock were exchanged for AIG Common Stock and
the Series G Cumulative Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series G Preferred Stock) was issued. In connection with the Recapitalization, we repaid all
amounts outstanding under the FRBNY Credit Facility. In connection with the May 2011 AIG Common Stock Offering (described below under AIG Common Stock Offerings by the Department of the
Treasury and AIG Purchases of Shares), the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
304  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the principal Consolidated Balance Sheet line items affected by the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, further described in
Note 25 herein:   

(a)     Repayment
and Termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility   Funds held in escrow and included in Other assets from the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale were used to repay
the FRBNY Credit Facility. The adjustments to Other assets and Accumulated deficit reflects the write-off of the unamortized portion of the net prepaid commitment fee asset.   

  (b)     Repurchase
and Exchange of SPV Preferred Interests   We used remaining net cash proceeds from the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale to pay down a portion of the
liquidation preference on the SPV Preferred Interests held by the FRBNY and drew down approximately $20.3 billion under the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F) to repurchase
the FRBNY's remaining SPV Preferred Interests, which we then transferred to the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the Series F Preferred Stock.   

  (c)     Exchange
of our Series C, E and F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock. The adjustments represent the exchange of Series C Preferred Stock, Series E
Preferred Stock, and Series F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock. As a result of the Recapitalization, the Department of the Treasury acquired 1,655,037,962 shares of newly issued AIG Common
Stock.   

  (d)     In
connection with the May 2011 AIG Common Stock offering and sale, the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled.   

   The following table presents a rollforward of preferred stock:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
305  

Table of Contents    

Dividends

Payment of future dividends to our shareholders depends in part on the regulatory framework that will ultimately be applicable to us, including our status as a savings and
loan holding company under Dodd-Frank and whether we are determined to be a SIFI. In addition, dividends will be payable on AIG Common Stock only when, as and if declared by our Board of
Directors in its discretion, from funds legally available
therefor. In considering whether to pay a dividend or purchase shares of AIG Common Stock, our Board of Directors will take into account such matters as our financial position, the performance of our
businesses, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, available capital, the existence of investment opportunities, contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on
the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries, rating agency considerations, including the potential effect on our debt ratings, and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant. We did not pay
any cash dividends in 2011 or 2012.   

Share Issuances and Purchases

AIG Common Stock Offerings by the Department of the Treasury and AIG Purchases of AIG Common Stock in
2012   

  Through
registered public offerings, the Department of the Treasury has disposed of all of its ownership of AIG Common Stock as of December 31, 2012, from ownership of approximately
92 percent (1.7 billion shares) prior to the completion of the first registered public offering initiated by the Department of the Treasury as selling shareholder in May 2011. During
2012, the Department of the Treasury, as selling shareholder, completed registered public offerings of AIG Common Stock on March 13 (the March Offering), May 10 (the May Offering),
August 8 (the August Offering), September 14 (the September Offering) and December 14 (the December Offering). We participated as a purchaser in the first four 2012 offerings.   

   The following table presents certain information relating to these offerings:   

*         Shares
purchased by us in each of the 2012 offerings were purchased pursuant to AIG Board of Directors authorization.   

  Each of these purchases was authorized by our Board of Directors. At December 31, 2012, our Board had not authorized any additional purchases. Potential
future purchases of our shares will depend in part on the regulatory framework that will ultimately be applicable to us. This framework will depend on, among other things, our capital requirements as
a savings and loan holding company under Dodd-Frank and whether we are determined to be a SIFI.   

AIG Common Stock Purchases in 2011   

  In November 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of shares of AIG Common Stock, with an aggregate purchase amount of up to $1 billion from time to time
in the open market, through derivative or automatic purchase contracts or otherwise. This authorization replaced all prior AIG Common Stock purchase authorizations. We purchased a total of 3,074,031
shares of AIG Common Stock for approximately $70 million in 2011.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
306  

Table of Contents   

Equity Units

In May 2008, we sold 78.4 million equity units (the Equity Units) at a price per unit of $75 for gross proceeds of $5.88 billion. The Equity Units included a
stock purchase contract obligating the holder of an Equity Unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to sell, a variable number of shares of AIG Common Stock for $25 in cash.   

  We
were obligated to pay quarterly contract adjustment payments to the holders of the stock purchase contracts under the Equity Units, at an initial annual rate of 2.71 percent applied to the
stated amount. The present value of the contract adjustment payments, $431 million, was recognized at inception as a liability (a component of Other liabilities), and was recorded as a
reduction to Additional paid-in capital.   

  In
addition to the stock purchase contracts, as part of the Equity Units, we issued $1.96 billion of each of the Series B-1, B-2 and B-3 junior
subordinated debentures, which initially paid interest at rates of 5.67 percent, 5.82 percent and 5.89 percent, respectively.   

The
junior subordinated debentures were recorded as Other long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The principal amount we owed on the subordinated debentures was equal to the
amount owed to us under the related stock purchase contract.   

  On
November 23, 2010, we commenced an offer to exchange up to 74,480,000 of our Equity Units for consideration per Equity Unit equal to 0.09867 share of AIG Common Stock plus $3.2702 in cash
(the Exchange Offer). The stock and cash received was the result of netting payments from two separate transactions, a repurchase of the subordinated debentures and a cancellation of the stock
purchase contracts.   

  On
November 29, 2010, holders of 49,474,600 Equity Units accepted the Exchange Offer and their units were tendered in exchange for 4,881,667 shares of AIG Common Stock and $162 million
in cash. Following the completion of the exchange offer, a total of 28,925,400 Equity Units remained outstanding. The execution of the Exchange Offer resulted in a loss on the extinguishment of the
subordinated debentures of approximately $104 million and an increase to equity of approximately $3.7 billion.   

  In
2011, we remarketed the three series of debentures included in the Equity Units. We purchased and retired all of the Series B-1, B-2 and B-3 Debentures
representing $2.2 billion in aggregate principal and as of December 31, 2011, we had issued approximately 1.8 billion shares of AIG Common Stock in connection with the settlement
of the stock purchase contracts underlying the Equity Units.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
307  

Table of Contents   

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The following table presents a rollforward of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):   

(a)     Includes
the pre-tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income related to a $152 million reduction of deferred acquisition costs as a consequence of the
recognition of additional policyholder benefit reserves disclosed below.   

  (b)     The
adjustment to policyholder benefit reserves assumes that the unrealized appreciation on available for sale securities is actually realized and that the proceeds are reinvested at
lower yields.   

As a result of divestitures in 2010, $1.8 billion of Foreign currency cumulative translation adjustment and $6.1 billion of Unrealized
appreciation of investments were transferred to earnings as net gain on sale.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
308  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the other comprehensive income (loss) reclassification adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
309  

Table of Contents    

18. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

The following table presents a rollforward of non-controlling interests:   

Redeemable noncontrolling interest

Nonvoting, callable, junior preferred interests held by the Department of
Treasury    represented preferred interests in the AIA SPV and ALICO SPV. In connection with the execution of our orderly asset disposition plan, as
well as the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility, we transferred two of our wholly owned businesses, AIA and ALICO, to two newly created SPVs in exchange for all the common and preferred interests
(the SPV Preferred Interests) of those SPVs. On December 1, 2009, AIG transferred the SPV Preferred Interests to the FRBNY in consideration for a $25 billion reduction of the outstanding
loan balance and of the maximum amount of credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility and amended the terms of the FRBNY Credit Facility. As part of the closing of the Recapitalization, the
remaining SPV Preferred Interests, with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $20.3 billion at January 14, 2011, were purchased from the FRBNY by AIG and transferred to
the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of Series F Preferred Stock. Under the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
310  

Table of Contents   

  terms
of the SPVs' limited liability company agreements, the SPVs generally may not distribute funds to us until the liquidation preferences and preferred returns on the respective SPV Preferred
Interests had been repaid in full and concurrent distributions had been made on certain participating returns attributable to the respective SPV Preferred Interests. In connection with the
Recapitalization, we agreed to cause the proceeds of certain asset dispositions to be used to pay down the remaining SPV Preferred Interests.   

  The
common interests, which we retained, entitled us to 100 percent of the voting power of the SPVs. The voting power allowed us to elect the boards of managers of the SPVs, who oversaw the
management and operation of the SPVs. Primarily due to the substantive participation rights of the SPV Preferred Interests, the SPVs were determined to be VIEs. As the primary beneficiary of the SPVs,
we consolidated the SPVs.   

  As
a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the SPV Preferred Interests held by the Department of the Treasury were no longer considered permanent equity on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet, and were classified as redeemable non-controlling interests. As part of the Recapitalization, we used approximately $6.1 billion of the cash proceeds
from the sale of ALICO to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests. The liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests was further reduced by
approximately $12.4 billion using proceeds from the sale of AIG Star, AIG Edison, Nan Shan, and MetLife securities received in the sale of ALICO. During the first quarter of 2011, the remaining
liquidation preference of the ALICO SPV Preferred Interests was paid in full.   

  The
SPV Preferred Interests were measured at fair value on their issuance date. The SPV Preferred Interests initially had a liquidation preference of $25 billion and had a preferred return of
five percent per year compounded quarterly through September 22, 2013 and nine percent thereafter. The preferred return is reflected in Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to
noncontrolling interests   Nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The difference between the SPV Preferred
Interests' fair value and the initial liquidation preference was amortized and included in Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests  
Nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests.   

  During
the first quarter of 2012, the liquidation preference of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests was paid down in full. See Note 16 herein for a discussion of indemnity payments made to MetLife
pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement.   

Non-redeemable noncontrolling interests

Non-redeemable noncontrolling interests    include the equity
interests of third-party shareholders in our consolidated subsidiaries and includes the preferred shareholders' equity in outstanding preferred stock of ILFC, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is held
for sale at December 31, 2012. The preferred stock in ILFC consists of 1,000 shares of market auction preferred stock (MAPS) in two series (Series A and B) of 500 shares each.
Each of the MAPS shares has a liquidation value of $100,000 per share and is not convertible. Dividends on the MAPS are accounted for as a reduction of the noncontrolling interest. The dividend rate,
other than the initial rate, for each dividend period for each series is reset approximately every seven weeks (49 days) on the basis of orders placed in an auction, provided such auctions are
able to occur. At December 31, 2012, there is no ability to conduct such auctions; therefore, the MAPS certificate of determination dictates that a maximum applicable rate, as defined in the
certificate of determination, be paid on the MAPS. At December 31, 2012, the dividend rate for each of the Series A and Series B MAPS was 0.50 percent and
0.36 percent respectively.   

  For
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Noncontrolling interests balance declined by $188 million and $707 million, respectively. In 2012, this decline was primarily
caused by an adjustment for the reclassification of noncontrolling interest from permanent to temporary and acquisitions of noncontrolling interests in 2012. In 2011, the decline in noncontrolling
interest balance was mostly due to the acquisition of Fuji's noncontrolling interest.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
311  

Table of Contents   

19. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE (EPS)

Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits.
Diluted EPS is based on those shares used in basic EPS plus shares that would have been outstanding assuming issuance of common shares for all dilutive potential common shares outstanding, adjusted to
reflect all stock dividends and stock splits. Basic EPS was not affected by outstanding stock purchase contracts. Diluted EPS was not affected by outstanding stock purchase contracts because they were
not dilutive.   

  In
connection with the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, we applied the two-class method for calculating EPS. The two-class method is an earnings allocation
method for computing EPS when a company's capital structure includes either two or more classes of common stock or common stock and participating securities. This method determines EPS based on
dividends declared on common stock and participating securities (i.e., distributed earnings), as well as participation rights of participating securities in any undistributed earnings. The
Series C Preferred Stock was retired as part of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011.   

  We
applied the two-class method due to the participation rights of the Series C Preferred Stock through January 14, 2011. However, application of the two-class
method had no effect on earnings per share for 2011 because we recognized a net loss attributable to AIG common shareholders from continuing operations, which is not applicable to participating stock
for EPS, for 2011. Subsequent to January 14, 2011, we have not had any outstanding participating securities that would subject us to the two-class method.   

   The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted EPS:   

*        Dilutive
shares are calculated using the treasury stock method and include dilutive shares from share-based employee compensation plans, and the warrants issued to the Department of the
Treasury in 2009. The number of shares excluded from diluted shares outstanding were 78 million, 76 million and 11 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively, because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
312  

Table of Contents    

  Deemed dividends resulted from the Recapitalization and represent the excess of:  

the fair value of the consideration transferred to the Department of the Treasury, which consisted of 1,092,169,866 shares
of AIG Common Stock, $20.2 billion of AIA SPV Preferred Interests and ALICO SPV Preferred Interests, and a liability for a commitment by us to pay the Department of the Treasury's costs to
dispose of all of its shares, over   
           the carrying value of the Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock.    

  The
fair value of the AIG Common Stock issued for the Series C Preferred Stock over the carrying value of the Series C Preferred Stock is not a deemed dividend because the
Series C Preferred Stock was contingently convertible
into the 562,868,096 shares of AIG Common Stock for which it was exchanged. See Note 25 herein for further discussion of shares exchanged in connection with the Recapitalization.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
313  

Table of Contents   

20. STATUTORY FINANCIAL DATA AND RESTRICTIONS

The following table presents statutory surplus and net income (loss) for our property casualty and life insurance and retirement services operations
in accordance with statutory accounting practices:   

(a)     Excludes
discontinued operations and other divested businesses. Statutory surplus and net income (loss) with respect to foreign operations are estimated at November 30.   

  (b)     The
2011 amount was increased by $917 million for Property casualty and decreased $267 million for Life insurance and retirement services.   

(c)     Includes
catastrophe losses (property casualty) and Net realized capital gains and losses.   

Our insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign
insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are that
statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, investment impairments are determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices,
assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are generally valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non-admitted.   

  At
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, statutory capital of our insurance subsidiaries exceeded minimum company action level requirements.   

Subsidiary Dividend Restrictions

Payments of dividends to us by our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to our domestic insurance
subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. For example, unless permitted by the New York
Superintendent of Insurance, property casualty companies domiciled in New York may not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any 12-month period, exceed the lesser of ten percent of such
company's statutory policyholders' surplus or 100 percent of its "adjusted net investment income," as defined. Generally, less severe restrictions applicable to both property casualty and life
insurance companies exist in most of the other states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the
insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions may restrict the ability of our foreign insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends.   

  There
are also various local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to us by our subsidiaries. Largely as a result of these restrictions, approximately 92 percent of the aggregate equity
of our consolidated insurance operations was restricted from transfer to AIG Parent at December 31, 2012. We cannot predict how regulatory investigations may affect the ability of our regulated
subsidiaries to pay dividends.   

  To
our knowledge, no AIG insurance company is currently on any regulatory or similar "watch list" with regard to solvency.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
314  

Table of Contents   

21. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION AND OTHER PLANS

Our Consolidated Statement of Operations included share-based compensation expense as follows:   

*         As
of December 31, 2012, compensation expense for the majority of our outstanding share-based awards is attributed to liability-classified awards, the value of which are based on
our share price at the reporting date. Our share price was $35.30, $23.20 and $57.62 at December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and is the
primary driver of the volatility in share-based compensation expense. Pre-tax share-based compensation expense related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31,
2012, 2011 and 2010 of $15 million ($10 million after tax), ($4 million) (($3 million) after tax) and $18 million ($13 million after tax), respectively, is
also included.   

Employee Plans

Our employees are granted awards under the AIG 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2010 Plan), under which we have issued restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs)
and stock appreciation rights (SARs). The 2010 Plan supersedes all plans for which share-based awards remain outstanding and is currently the only plan under which share-based awards can be issued.   

  However,
of all grants made under the legacy plans, only grants under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan) and the Starr International Company, Inc. Deferred Compensation Profit
Participation Plans (the SICO Plans) remain unvested as of December 31, 2012.   

Our
share-settled awards are settled with newly-issued shares of AIG Common Stock. Share awards made by SICO are settled by SICO.   

Non-Employee Plans

Our non-employee directors received share-based compensation in the form of deferred stock units (DSUs) under the 2010 Plan with delivery deferred until
retirement from the Board. In 2012, 2011 and 2010, we granted to directors 19,434, 21,203 and 14,484 DSUs, respectively.   

Stock Options

AIG Stock Option Plan

Options granted under the 2007 Plan and the 1999 Stock Option Plan are vested and out of the money at December 31, 2012. These awards generally vested over four years
(25 percent vesting per year) and expired 10 years from the date of grant. There were no stock options granted since 2008; however, in 2012, we issued 558,358 shares in connection with
previous exercises of options with delivery deferred.   

   The following table provides a roll forward of stock option activity:      

The aggregate intrinsic value for all unexercised options is zero, and no unrecognized compensation costs remain for stock options under these plans at
December 31, 2012.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
315  

Table of Contents   

Other Share-Settled Awards under Share-Based Plans

AIG 2010 Stock Incentive Plan

The 2010 Plan was adopted at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The total number of shares of AIG Common Stock that may be granted under the 2010 Plan is 60,000,000
(the reserve). During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we granted DSUs, RSUs, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights (SARS) under the 2010 Plan. Each RSU, DSU, SAR and share of restricted stock awarded
reduces the number of shares available for future grants by one share. The reserve is also reduced for the issuance of cash-settled share-based awards regardless of the form in which the
award is originally granted. At December 31, 2012, a total of 25,031,720 shares remained in reserve for future grants under the 2010 Plan.   

AIG 2007 Stock Incentive Plan

The 2007 Plan was adopted at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The 2010 Plan superseded the 2007 Plan, therefore, there were no grants made under the 2007 Plan
subsequent to May 11, 2010. During 2010, 114,521 time-vested RSUs were granted under the 2007 Plan and vest on the second or the third anniversary of the date of grant.   

SICO Plans

The SICO Plans provide that shares of AIG Common Stock currently held by SICO are set aside for the benefit of the participant and distributed upon retirement. The SICO
Board of Directors currently may permit an early payout of shares under certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not entitled to vote, dispose of or receive dividends with respect to
such shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain conditions, including but not limited to the participant's termination of employment with us prior to normal retirement age. A
significant portion of the awards under the SICO Plans vest the year after the participant reaches age 65, provided that the participant remains employed by us through age 65. The portion of the
awards for which early payout is available vest on the applicable payout date.   

  Although
none of the costs of the various benefits provided under the SICO Plans have been paid by us, we have recorded compensation expense for the deferred compensation amounts payable to our
employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount credited to Additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts deemed contributed by SICO.   

Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Valuation

The fair value of restricted stock and RSUs is based on the closing price of AIG Common Stock on the date of grant.   

   The following table summarizes outstanding share-settled awards and RSUs that are fully vested on the date of grant but subject to transfer restrictions under the foregoing
plans (a) :   

(a)     Excludes
DSUs and options, which are discussed under the Non-Employee Plans and Stock Options sections above.   

  (b)     Excludes
legacy Deferred Compensation Profit Participation and Partners Plan for which the final installments (38,959 RSUs) vested on January 1, 2012.   

(c)     Adjusted
to reflect the Company's election in 2012 to cash-settle RSUs that were previously expected to be share-settled.   

The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to unvested SICO awards is $46 million and the weighted-average and
expected period of years over which those costs are expected to be recognized are 5.44 years and 27 years, respectively. The unrecognized expense for all other awards totals less than
$1 million, with a weighted average period of less than one year.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
316  

Table of Contents   

Liability Awards

We have issued various share-based grants, including restricted stock units, linked to AIG Common Stock, but providing for cash settlement to certain of our most highly
compensated employees and executive officers. Share-based cash settled awards are recorded as liabilities until the final payout is made or the award is replaced with a stock-settled award.
Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting periods, unless the award is fully vested on the grant date in which case the entire award value is immediately expensed.   

  Unlike
stock-settled awards, which have a fixed grant-date fair value (unless the award is subsequently modified), the fair value of unsettled or unvested liability awards is remeasured at
the end of each reporting period
based on the change in fair value of one share of AIG Common Stock. The liability and corresponding expense are adjusted accordingly until the award is settled.   

Restricted Stock Units

Stock Salary Awards

In 2009, we established a program of regular grants of vested stock or units that is generally referred to as "Stock Salary." Stock Salary is determined as a dollar amount
through the date that salary is earned and accrued at the same time or times as the salary would otherwise be paid in cash. Stock Salary was granted to any individual qualifying as a senior executive
officer or one of our next twenty most highly compensated employees (the Top 25). Stock Salary for a Top 25 employee (other than our CEO) is settled in three equal installments on the first, second
and third anniversary of grant. Stock Salary was also granted to individuals qualifying as an executive officer or one of our next 75 most highly compensated employees (Top 26-100), and is
generally settled on either the first or third anniversary of grant in accordance with the terms of an employee's award. Except as noted below, Stock Salary grants issued were awarded in the form of
immediately vested RSUs, and the number of units awarded was based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the grant date. During 2012, we issued 2,668,436 RSUs to eligible employees.   

  In
2010, Stock Salary was awarded in the form of fully vested long term performance units (LTPU) that were measured based on a mix of our hybrid securities and AIG Common Stock weighted
80 percent and 20 percent, respectively. In April 2011, unsettled LTPUs were subsequently converted to RSUs based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the conversion date. RSUs are
settled in cash based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the applicable settlement date. During 2012, 2011 and 2010 we paid $111 million, $35 million and $18 million respectively
to settle awards; for those awards that were unsettled at the end of each year, we recognized a charge of $173 million, a reduction of $1 million and a charge of $192 million in
compensation expense in the respective years to reflect fluctuations in the price of AIG Common Stock.   

TARP RSUs

TARP RSUs awarded require the achievement of objective performance metrics as a condition to entitlement. When vested and transferable, an award would be settled in
25 percent installments in proportion to the settlement of our TARP obligations. Prior to December 2011, TARP RSUs granted to the Top 25 (other than our CEO) vested on the third anniversary of
grant, while TARP RSUs granted to the Top 26-100 vested on the second anniversary of grant and are subject to transferability restrictions for an additional year after vesting. As of
December 2011, all TARP RSUs granted will vest in two 50 percent installments on the second and third anniversary of the date of grant. Our TARP obligations were fully repaid in December 2012.
Accordingly, 100 percent of outstanding TARP RSUs will vest once the service requirements are satisfied.   

Other RSUs

Fully-vested RSUs totaling 271,131 were issued in March 2011 to certain employees in the Top 26-100 based on 2010 performance. Similarly, 301,645 fully vested
RSUs were issued in March 2010 for performance in 2009. The RSUs for both awards will be cash-settled in March 2014 and 2013 for the 2010 and 2009 grants, respectively, based on the value
of AIG Common Stock on each settlement date. Compensation expense totaling $8 million and $9 million was recorded in December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, when the awards were
initially granted and $4 million was recorded for those awards that remained unsettled at December 31, 2012.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
317  

Table of Contents    

  During 2012, with the exception of 139,169 fully-vested RSUs issued to certain employees, RSUs granted and issued in March 2012 for Recipients' 2011 performance
will vest in two 50 percent installments on the second and third anniversary of the date of grant.   

Long Term Incentive Plans

Under our Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), certain employees are offered the opportunity to receive additional compensation in the form of cash and/or SARs if
certain performance metrics are met. The ultimate value of LTIP awards is contingent on the achievement of performance measures aligned to the participant's business unit over a two-year
period and such value could range from zero to twice the target amount. Subsequent to the performance period, the earned awards are subject to an additional time-vesting period. This
results in a graded vesting schedule for the cash portion of up to two years, while the SARs portion cliff-vests two years after the performance period ends. For a majority of SARs issued under the
2011 LTIP, the strike price, which is based on our average share price over the 30-day period prior to the March grant date, was $37.40. On January 19, 2011, the previous strike
price of $31.91 for SARs issued under both the 2010 LTIP and the 2009 LTIP was adjusted to $26.97 pursuant to anti-dilution provisions of the LTIP due to the issuance of warrants in
connection with the Recapitalization (see Note 25 for additional discussion). No SARs were granted in connection with the 2012 LTIP.   

  The
cash portion of the awards expensed in 2012, 2011 and 2010 totaled approximately $189 million, $199 million, and $258 million, respectively.   

The following table presents a rollforward of SARs and cash-settled RSUs (excluding stock salary) as well as the related expenses:   

(a)     Adjusted
to reflect our election in 2012 to cash-settle RSUs that were previously expected to be share-settled.   

  (b)     Represents
additional SARs earned as a result of the completion of the performance period for the 2010 LTIP.   

  (c)     Pursuant
to the terms of the LTIP, vesting was accelerated for SARs awarded to employees who became retirement eligible or were deceased.   

The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to unvested SARs and cash-settled RSUs
excluding stock salary and the weighted-average periods over which those costs are expected to be recognized are as follows:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
318  

Table of Contents   

Stock Appreciation Rights Valuation

We use a Monte Carlo simulation approach, which incorporates a range of input parameters that is consistently applied, to determine the fair value of SARs awards at each
reporting period. The table below presents the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of SARs on December 31, 2012.   

(a)     The
dividend yield is estimated at zero percent given our recent dividend history. See Note 17 herein for additional information.   

  (b)     The
expected volatilities are the implied volatilities with the nearest maturity and strike price as of valuation date from actively traded stock options on AIG Common Stock.   

  (c)     The
risk-free interest rate is the continuously compounded interest rate for the term between the valuation date and maturity date that is assumed to be constant and equal
to the interpolated value between the closest data points on the USD LIBOR-Swap curve as of valuation date.   

  (d)     The
term to maturity is specified in the contract of each SARs grant.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
319  

Table of Contents   

22. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

Pension Plans

We offer various defined benefit plans to eligible employees based on years of service.   

  The
U.S. AIG Retirement Plan (the qualified plan) is a noncontributory defined benefit plan, which is subject to the provisions of ERISA. U.S. salaried employees who are employed by a participating
company and completed 12 months of continuous service are eligible to participate in the plan. Effective April 1, 2012, the qualified plan was converted to a cash balance formula
comprised of pay credits based on six percent of a plan participant's annual compensation (subject to IRS limitations) and annual interest credits. In addition, employees can take their vested
benefits when they leave AIG as a lump sum or an annuity option after completing at least three years of service. However, employees satisfying certain age and service requirements
(i.e. grandfathered employees) remain covered under the old plan formula, which is based upon a percentage of final average compensation multiplied by years of credited service, up to
44 years. Grandfathered employees will receive the higher of the benefits under the cash balance or final average pay formula at retirement. Non-U.S. defined benefit plans are
generally either
based on the employee's years of credited service and compensation in the years preceding retirement or on points accumulated based on the employee's job grade and other factors during each year of
service.   

  We
also sponsor several non-qualified unfunded defined benefit plans for certain employees, including key executives, designed to supplement pension benefits provided by the qualified
plan. These include the AIG Non-Qualified Retirement Income Plan (AIG NQRIP) formerly known as AIG Excess Retirement Income Plan, which provides a benefit equal to the reduction in
benefits payable to certain employees under the qualified plan as a result of federal tax limitations on compensation and benefits payable, and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(Supplemental), which provides additional retirement benefits to designated executives. Under the Supplemental plan, an annual benefit accrues at a percentage of final average pay multiplied by each
year of credited service, not greater than 60 percent of final average pay, reduced by any benefits from the current and any predecessor retirement plans (including the AIG NQRIP Plan), Social
Security, and any benefits accrued under a Company sponsored foreign deferred compensation plan. As of December 2012, we are no longer subject to the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation;
therefore, the suspension of future benefit accruals in the non-qualified retirement plans for our Top 100 most highly compensated employees is lifted.   

Postretirement Plans

We also provide postretirement medical care and life insurance benefits in the U.S. and in certain non-U.S. countries. Eligibility in the various plans is
generally based upon completion of a specified period of eligible service and attaining a specified age. Overseas, benefits vary by geographic location.   

  U.S.
postretirement medical and life insurance benefits are based upon the employee attaining the age of 55 and having a minimum of ten years of service. Eligible employees who have medical coverage
can enroll in retiree medical without having to elect immediate retirement pension benefits. Medical benefits are contributory, while the life insurance benefits are generally
non-contributory. Retiree medical contributions vary from requiring no cost for pre-1989 retirees to requiring actual premium payments reduced by certain subsidies for
post-1993 retirees. These contributions are subject to adjustment annually. Other cost sharing features of the medical plan include deductibles, coinsurance and Medicare coordination.
Effective April 1, 2012, the retiree medical employer subsidy for the AIG Postretirement plan was eliminated for employees who were not grandfathered. Additionally, new employees hired after
December 31, 2012 are not eligible for retiree life insurance.   

   The following table presents the funded status of the plans, reconciled to the amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The measurement date for most of the
Non-U.S. defined benefit pension and     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
320  

Table of Contents   

postretirement plans is November 30, consistent with the fiscal year end of the sponsoring companies. For all other plans, measurement occurs as of December 31.     

(a)     We
do not currently fund postretirement benefits.   

  (b)     Includes
non-qualified unfunded plans of which the aggregate projected benefit obligation was $238 million and $210 million for the U.S. and
$299 million and $267 million for the non-U.S. at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
321  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents the accumulated benefit obligations for U.S. and Non-U.S. pension benefit
plans:   

Defined benefit pension plan obligations in which the projected benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan assets and the
accumulated benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan assets were as follows:   

The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost recognized in income and other amounts recognized in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) with respect to the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans:   

The estimated net loss and prior service credit that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next
fiscal year are $145 million and $37 million, respectively, for our combined defined benefit pension plans. For the defined benefit postretirement plans, the estimated amortization from
Accumulated other comprehensive income for net loss and prior service credit that will be amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year will be less than $9 million in the
aggregate.   

  The
annual pension expense in 2013 for the AIG U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans is expected to be approximately $292 million including less than $1 million
associated with ILFC. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate or expected long-term rate of return would decrease the 2013 expense by approximately $90 million and
$43 million, respectively, with all other items remaining the same. Conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rate or expected long-term rate of return would increase
the 2013 expense by approximately $96 million and $43 million, respectively, with all other items remaining the same.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
322  

Table of Contents   

Assumptions

The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations:   

(a)     The
non-U.S. plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries providing such benefits.   

The following table summarizes assumed health care cost trend rates for the U.S. plans:   

A one percent point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the following effect on our postretirement benefit
obligations:   

Our postretirement plans provide benefits primarily in the form of defined employer contributions rather than defined employer benefits. Changes in the assumed
healthcare cost trend rate are subject to caps for U.S. plans. Our non-U.S. postretirement plans are not subject to caps.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
323  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit costs:   

(a)     The
non-U.S. plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of the subsidiaries providing such benefits.   

Discount Rate Methodology

The projected benefit cash flows under the U.S. AIG Retirement plan were discounted using the spot rates derived from the Mercer Pension Discount Yield Curve at
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, which resulted in a single discount rate that would produce the same liability at the respective measurement dates. The discount rates were
3.94 percent at December 31, 2012 and 4.62 percent at December 31, 2011. The methodology was consistently applied for the respective years in determining the discount rates
for the other U.S. plans.   

  In
general, the discount rates for non-U.S. pension plans were developed based on the duration of liabilities on a plan by plan basis and were selected by reference to high quality
corporate bonds in developed markets or local government bonds where developed markets are not as robust or are nonexistent.   

  The
projected benefit obligation for Japan represents approximately 57 and 62 percent of the total projected benefit obligations for our non-U.S. pension plans at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The weighted average discount rate of 1.54 and 1.70 percent at December 31, 2012 and 2011 respectively for Japan was selected by
reference to the AA rated corporate bonds reported by Rating and Investment Information, Inc. based on the duration of the plans' liabilities.   

Plan Assets

The investment strategy with respect to assets relating to our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is designed to achieve investment returns that will
(a) provide for the benefit obligations of the plans over the long term; (b) limit the risk of short-term funding shortfalls; and (c) maintain liquidity sufficient to
address cash needs. Accordingly, the asset allocation strategy is designed to maximize the investment rate of return while managing various risk factors, including but not limited to, volatility
relative to the benefit obligations, diversification and concentration, and the risk and rewards profile indigenous to each asset class. The assessment of the expected rate of return for all our plans
is long-term and thus not expected to change annually; however, significant changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change.   

There
were no shares of AIG Common Stock included in the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans assets at December 31, 2012 or 2011.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
324  

Table of Contents    

U.S. Pension Plans

The long-term strategic asset allocation is reviewed and revised approximately every three years. The plans' assets are monitored by the investment committee of
our Retirement
Board and the investment managers, which includes allocating the plans' assets among approved asset classes within pre-approved ranges permitted by the strategic allocation.   

   The following table presents the asset allocation percentage by major asset class for U.S. pension plans and the target allocation:   

The expected long-term rate of return for the plan was 7.25 and 7.50 percent for 2012 and 2011, respectively. The expected rate of return is
an aggregation of expected returns within each asset class category and incorporates the current and target asset allocations. The combination of the expected asset return and any
contributions made by us are expected to maintain the plans' ability to meet all required benefit obligations. The expected asset return for each asset class was developed based on an approach that
considers key fundamental drivers of the asset class returns in addition to historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns.   

Non-U.S. Pension Plans

The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans are held in various trusts in multiple countries and are invested primarily in equities and fixed maturity securities to
maximize the long-term return on assets for a given level of risk.   

   The following table presents the asset allocation percentage by major asset class for Non-U.S. pension plans and the target allocation:   

The expected weighted average long-term rates of return for our non-U.S. pension plans was 2.91 and 3.14 percent for the years
ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The expected rate of return for each country is an aggregation of expected returns within each asset class for such country. For each country,
the return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block approach that considers historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for
future market returns.   

Assets Measured at Fair Value

We are required to disclose the level of the fair value measurement of the plan assets. The inputs and methodology used in determining the fair value of these assets are
consistent with those used to measure our assets as noted in Note 6 herein.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
325  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents information about our plan assets based on the level within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurement
falls:   

(a)     Includes
index funds that primarily track several indices including S P 500 and S P Small Cap 600 in addition to other actively managed accounts comprised of investments in
large cap companies.   

  (b)     Includes
investments in companies in emerging and developed markets.   

  (c)     Represents
investments in U.S. and non-U.S. government issued bonds, U.S. government agency or sponsored agency bonds, and investment grade corporate bonds.   

  (d)     Consists
primarily of investments in securities or debt obligations that have a rating below investment grade.   

  (e)     Comprised
primarily of investments in U.S. government agency or U.S. government sponsored agency bonds.   

  (f)      Includes
funds comprised of macro, event driven, long/short equity, and controlled risk hedge fund strategies and a separately managed controlled risk strategy.   

(g)     Includes
funds that are diverse by geography, investment strategy, and sector.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
326  

Table of Contents    

  The inputs or methodologies used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in these securities. Based on
our investment strategy, we have no significant concentrations of risks.   

  The
U.S. pension plan holds a group annuity contract with US Life, one of our subsidiaries, which totaled $29 million and $31 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements

The following table presents changes in our U.S. and Non-U.S. Level 3 plan assets measured at fair value:   

Transfers of Level 1 and Level 2 Assets and Liabilities

Our policy is to record transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent
with the date of the determination of fair value. Assets are transferred out of Level 1 when they are no longer transacted with sufficient frequency and volume in an active market. Conversely,
assets are transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 when transaction volume and frequency are indicative of an active market. We had no significant transfers between Level 1 and
Level 2 during the year ended December 31, 2012.   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets

During the year ended December 31, 2012, transfers of Level 3 assets included certain U.S. investment grade and mortgage backed securities and other fixed
maturity securities. These transfers were due to a decrease in market transparency, downward credit migration and an overall increase in price disparity for certain individual security types.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
327  

Table of Contents   

Expected Cash Flows

Funding for the U.S. pension plan ranges from the minimum amount required by ERISA to the maximum amount that would be deductible for U.S. tax purposes. Contributed amounts
in excess of the minimum amounts are deemed voluntary. Amounts in excess of the maximum amount would be subject to an excise tax and may not be deductible under the Internal Revenue Code. There are
no minimum required cash contributions for the AIG Retirement Plan in 2013. Supplemental, AIG NQRIP and postretirement plan payments are deductible when paid.   

  Our
annual pension contribution in 2013 is expected to be approximately $100 million for our U.S. and non-U.S. non-qualified plans. No contributions to the AIG
Retirement Plan are currently anticipated. These estimates are subject to change, since contribution decisions are affected by various factors including our liquidity, market performance and
management's discretion.   

The expected future benefit payments, net of participants' contributions, with respect to the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, are as
follows:   

Defined Contribution Plans

In addition to several small defined contribution plans, we sponsor a voluntary savings plan for U.S. employees which provide for pre-tax salary reduction
contributions by employees. Effective January 1, 2012, the Company matching contribution was changed to 100 percent of the first six percent of participant contributions, up to the IRS
maximum limits of $17,000 for employee contributions and to $15,000 for the Company matching contribution, irrespective of their length of service. Prior to the change, company contributions of up to
seven percent of annual salary were made depending on the employee's years of service subject to certain compensation limits.   

Pre-tax
expenses associated with this plan were $132 million, $98 million and $102 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, excluding approximately
$1 million per year relating to ILFC.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
328  

Table of Contents   

23. OWNERSHIP

Through registered public offerings, the Department of the Treasury disposed of all of its ownership of AIG Common Stock during 2012 and 2011. The Department of the Treasury
still owns two series of warrants (the Series D Warrant and Series F Warrant, respectively). The Series D Warrant provides for the purchase of 2,689,938 shares of AIG Common Stock
at $50 per share. The Series F Warrant provides for the purchase of 150 shares of AIG Common Stock at $0.00002 per share. Both series of warrants have a 10-year term and are
exercisable at any time, in whole or in part. For discussion of the Recapitalization, see Note 25 herein.   

  A
Schedule 13G/A filed February 14, 2013 reports aggregate ownership of 110,209,093 shares, or approximately 7.3 percent (based on the AIG Common Stock outstanding, as
adjusted to reflect the warrants owned), of AIG Common Stock and warrants (85,862,294 shares plus 24,346,799 warrants) as of December 31, 2012, including securities beneficially
owned by The Fairholme Fund and other funds and investment vehicles managed by Fairholme Capital Management and securities owned by Mr. Bruce Berkowitz personally. The calculation of ownership
interest for purposes of the AIG Tax Asset Protection Plan and Article 13 of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation is different than beneficial ownership for Schedule 13G.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
329  

Table of Contents   

24. INCOME TAXES

The following table presents income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) by U.S. and foreign location in which such
pre-tax income (loss) was earned or incurred.   

The following table presents the income tax expense (benefit) attributable to pre-tax income (loss) from continuing
operations:   

Our actual income tax (benefit) expense differs from the statutory U.S. federal amount computed by applying the federal income tax rate
due to the following:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
330  

Table of Contents    

  For the year ended December 31, 2012, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was 16.8 percent. The
effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012, attributable to continuing operations differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits of $1.9 billion related to a
decrease in the life-insurance-business capital loss carryforward valuation allowance and $302 million associated with tax exempt interest income. These items were partially offset
by charges of $586 million related to uncertain tax positions and $172 million associated with the effect of foreign operations.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was not meaningful, due to the significant effect of releasing
approximately $18.4 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Other factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory rate included tax benefits of $454 million
associated with tax exempt interest income, $386 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, and $224 million related to our investment in subsidiaries and partnerships.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was 34.5 percent. The effective tax rate for the year ended
December 31, 2010, attributable to continuing operations differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits of $1.3 billion associated with our investment in subsidiaries and
partnerships, principally the AIA SPV which is treated as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes, and
$587 million associated with tax exempt interest, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance attributable to continuing operations of $1.4 billion.   

   The following table presents the components of the net deferred tax assets (liabilities):   

The following table presents our U.S. consolidated income tax group tax losses and credits carryforwards as of December 31, 2012
on a tax return basis.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
331  

Table of Contents   

Assessment of Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance

The evaluation of the recoverability of the deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a
conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be
objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed.   

  Our
framework for assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets weighs the sustainability of recent operating profitability, the predictability of future operating profitability of the character
necessary to realize the deferred tax assets, and our emergence from cumulative losses in recent years. The framework requires us to consider all available evidence,
including:  

the nature, frequency, and severity of cumulative financial reporting losses in recent years;    
           the sustainability of recent operating profitability of our subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions;    
           the predictability of future operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;    
           the carryforward periods for the net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards, including the
effect of reversing taxable temporary differences; and,  
           prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the loss of the
deferred tax assets.    

  As
a result of sales in the ordinary course of business to manage the investment portfolio and the application of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies during the year ended December 31,
2012, AIG determined that an additional portion of the life insurance business capital loss carryforwards will more-likely-than-not be realized prior to their
expiration.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2012, AIG released $2.1 billion of its deferred tax asset valuation allowance associated with the life insurance business capital loss carryforwards, of
which $1.9 billion was allocated to income from continuing operations. Additional life insurance business capital loss carryforwards may be realized in the future if and when other prudent and
feasible tax planning strategies are identified. Changes in market conditions, including rising interest rates above AIG's projections, may result in a reduction in projected taxable gains and
reestablishment of a valuation allowance.   

   The following table presents the net deferred tax assets (liabilities) for December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, respectively, on a U.S. GAAP
basis:   

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance of U.S. Consolidated Income Tax Group

At December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, our U.S. consolidated income tax group had net deferred tax assets (liabilities) after valuation allowance of
$17.3 billion and $19.2 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, our U.S. consolidated income tax group had valuation allowances of
$5.1 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
332  

Table of Contents    

  For the year ended December 31, 2011, the decrease in the U.S. consolidated income tax group deferred tax asset valuation allowance was
$18.4 billion. The entire decrease in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance was allocated to continuing operations. The amount allocated to continuing operations also included the decrease
in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance attributable to the anticipated inclusion of the ALICO SPV within the 2011 U.S. consolidated federal income tax return.   

Deferred Tax Liability   Foreign, State and Local

At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $613 million and $872 million, respectively, related to
foreign subsidiaries, state and local tax jurisdictions, and certain domestic subsidiaries that file separate tax returns.   

At
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we had deferred tax asset valuation allowances of $2.9 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, related to foreign subsidiaries,
state and local tax jurisdictions, and certain domestic subsidiaries that file separate tax returns. We maintained these valuation allowances following our conclusion that we could not demonstrate
that it was more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. This was primarily due to factors such as cumulative losses in recent years and the inability to demonstrate
profits within the specific jurisdictions over the relevant carryforward periods.   

Tax Examinations and Litigation

We file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with our eligible U.S. subsidiaries. Several U.S. subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements
previously filed separate U.S. federal income tax returns and were not part of our U.S. consolidated income tax group. Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are taxed, and income tax expense is
recorded, based on applicable U.S. and foreign law.   

  The
statute of limitations for all tax years prior to 2000 has expired for our consolidated federal income tax return. We are currently under examination for the tax years 2000
through 2006.   

  On
March 20, 2008, we received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS for years 1997 to 1999. The Notice asserted that we owe additional taxes and penalties for
these years primarily due to the disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross-border financing transactions. The transactions that are the subject of the Notice extend beyond the period
covered by the Notice, and the IRS is challenging the later periods. It is also possible that the IRS will consider other transactions to be similar to these transactions. We have paid the assessed
tax plus interest and penalties for 1997 to 1999. On February 26, 2009, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a
refund of approximately $306 million in taxes, interest and penalties paid with respect to its 1997 taxable year. We allege that the IRS improperly disallowed foreign tax credits and
that our taxable income should be reduced as a result of our 2005 restatement of its consolidated financial statements.   

  On
March 29, 2011, the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, ruled on a motion for partial summary judgment that we filed on July 30, 2010 related to the disallowance of
foreign tax credits associated with cross border financing transactions. The court denied our motion with leave to renew following the completion of discovery regarding certain transactions referred
to in our motion, which we believe may be significant to the outcome of the action.   

  On
August 1, 2012, we filed a motion for partial summary judgment. The parties completed submission of briefs in support of their respective positions on November 12, 2012. As of
February 21, 2013 the motion remains pending. We will vigorously defend our position, and continue to believe that we have adequate reserves for any liability that could result from the IRS
actions.   

We
also filed an administrative refund claim on September 9, 2010 for our 1998 and 1999 tax years.   

  We
continue to monitor legal and other developments in this area and evaluate the effect, if any, on our position, including recent decisions adverse to other taxpayers.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
333  

Table of Contents   

Accounting For Uncertainty in Income Taxes

The following table presents a rollforward of the beginning and ending balances of the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits:   

At December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our unrecognized tax benefits related to tax positions that if recognized would not affect the effective tax
rate as they relate to such factors as the timing, rather than the permissibility, of the deduction were $0.2 billion, $0.7 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. Accordingly, at
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate were $4.2 billion,
$3.5 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively.   

  The
decrease in the gross unrecognized tax benefits for 2012 was primarily related to tax positions that did not affect the effective tax rate because they relate to timing.   

  Interest
and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in income tax expense. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had accrued liabilities of $935 million and
$744 million, respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we accrued expense
(benefits) of $189 million, $(174) million and $149 million, respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties.   

We
regularly evaluate adjustments proposed by taxing authorities. At December 31, 2012, such proposed adjustments would not have resulted in a material change to our consolidated financial
condition, although it is possible that the effect could be material to our consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Although it is reasonably possible that a change in
the balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, based on the information currently available, we do not expect any change to be material to our consolidated
financial condition.   

   Listed below are the tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
334  

Table of Contents   

25. RECAPITALIZATION

On January 14, 2011 (the Closing), we completed a series of integrated transactions to recapitalize AIG (the Recapitalization) with the Department of the Treasury,
the FRBNY and AIG Credit Facility Trust (the Trust), including the repayment of all amounts owed under the FRBNY Credit Facility. At the Closing, we recognized a net loss on extinguishment of debt,
primarily representing $3.3 billion in accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

Repayment and Termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility

At the Closing, we repaid to the FRBNY approximately $21 billion in cash, representing complete repayment of all amounts owed under the FRBNY Credit Facility, and the
FRBNY Credit Facility was terminated. The funds for the repayment came from the net cash proceeds from our sale of 67 percent of the ordinary shares of AIA in its initial public offering and
from our sale of ALICO in 2010.   

Repurchase and Exchange of SPV Preferred Interests

At the Closing, we drew down approximately $20.3 billion (the Series F Closing Drawdown Amount) under the Department of the Treasury Commitment
(Series F) pursuant to the Series F SPA. The Series F Closing Drawdown Amount was the full amount remaining under the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F), less
$2 billion that we designated to be available after the closing for general corporate purposes under a commitment relating to our Series G Preferred Stock described below (the
Series G Drawdown Right). Our right to draw on the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F) (other than the Series G Drawdown Right) was terminated.   

  We
used the Series F Closing Drawdown Amount to repurchase all of the FRBNY's AIA SPV Preferred Interests and the ALICO SPV Preferred Interests. We transferred the SPV Preferred Interests to
the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the Series F Preferred Stock (described below).   

During
the first quarter of 2011, the liquidation preference of the ALICO SPV Preferred Interests was paid down in full. During the first quarter of 2012, the liquidation preference of
the AIA SPV Preferred Interests was paid down in full.   

Issuance and Cancellation of Our Series G Preferred Stock

At the Closing, we and the Department of the Treasury amended and restated the Series F SPA to provide for the issuance of 20,000 shares of Series G Preferred
Stock by AIG to the Department of the Treasury. The Series G Preferred Stock was issued with a liquidation preference of zero. Because the net proceeds to us from the completion of the
registered public offering of AIG Common Stock in May 2011 of $2.9 billion exceeded the $2.0 billion Series G Drawdown Right, the Series G Drawdown Right was
terminated and the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled immediately thereafter.   

Exchange of Our Series C, E and F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock and Series G Preferred Stock

At the Closing:  

the shares of our Series C Preferred Stock held by the Trust were exchanged for 562,868,096 shares of newly issued
AIG Common Stock, which were subsequently transferred by the Trust to the Department of the Treasury;   
           the shares of our Series E Preferred Stock held by the Department of the Treasury were exchanged for 924,546,133
newly issued shares of AIG Common Stock; and  
           the shares of the Series F Preferred Stock held by the Department of the Treasury, were exchanged for
(a) the SPV Preferred Interests, (b) 20,000 shares of the Series G Preferred Stock (subsequently cancelled) and (c) 167,623,733 shares of newly issued AIG Common Stock.    

  For
a discussion of the Department of the Treasury's sale of all of its ownership of AIG Common Stock, see Note 17 herein.   

Issuance of Warrants to Purchase AIG Common Stock

On January 19, 2011, as part of the Recapitalization, we issued to the holders of record of AIG Common Stock as of January 13, 2011, by means of a dividend,
ten-year warrants to purchase a total of 74,997,778 shares of AIG Common Stock at an exercise price of $45.00 per share. We retained 67,650 of these warrants for tax withholding purposes.
No warrants were issued to the Trust, the Department of the Treasury or the FRBNY.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
335  

Table of Contents    

26. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss)

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
336  

Table of Contents    

27. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT

The following condensed consolidating financial statements reflect the results of SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (SAFG, Inc.), formerly known as AIG Life
Holdings (U.S.), Inc. (AIGLH), a holding company and a 100 percent owned subsidiary of AIG. AIG provides a full and unconditional guarantee of all outstanding debt of SAFG, Inc.   

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet

(a)      Includes
intercompany derivative asset positions, which are reported at fair value before credit valuation adjustment.   

  (b)      Eliminated
in consolidation.   

  (c)      For
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, includes intercompany tax payable of $6.1 billion and $9.8 billion, respectively, and intercompany derivative
liabilities of $602 million and $901 million, respectively, for American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor) and intercompany tax receivable of $120 million and
$128 million, respectively, for SAFG, Inc.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
337  

Table of Contents    

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income (Loss)

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
338  

Table of Contents    

(a)      Eliminated
in consolidation.   

  (b)      Includes
intercompany income of $242 million, $489 million, and $2.6 billion for 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, for American International Group, Inc.
(As Guarantor).   

  (c)      Includes
intercompany interest expense of $141 million, $700 million, and $28 million for 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, for American International
Group, Inc. (As Guarantor).   

  (d)      For
2010 and 2009, income taxes recorded by American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor) include deferred tax expense attributable to foreign businesses sold and a
valuation allowance to reduce the consolidated deferred tax asset to the amount more likely than not to be realized. For 2011, the income tax benefit includes the effect of releasing a significant
portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. See Note 24 herein for additional information.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
339  

Table of Contents   

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss)

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
340  

Table of Contents    

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
341  

Table of Contents   

*         Includes
activities related to the Recapitalization. See Note 17 herein.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
342  

Table of Contents    

Supplementary Disclosure of Cash Flow Information

*         Includes
payment of FRBNY Credit Facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion in the first quarter of 2011.   

American International Group, Inc (As Guarantor) supplementary disclosure of non-cash activities:

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
343  

Table of Contents    

PART II

ITEM 9  /    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.    

ITEM 9A  /    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, an evaluation was carried out by AIG management, with the participation of AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of December 31, 2012. Based on this evaluation, AIG's
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2012.   

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management of AIG is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. AIG's internal control over financial reporting is a
process, under the supervision of AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of AIG's financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP.   

  Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

AIG
management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 based on the criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).   

  AIG
management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on the criteria articulated in    Internal
Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the COSO. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We continue our implementation of new technology solutions, which began in 2010, to mitigate the reliance on manual controls and to improve internal controls relating to the
period-end financial reporting and consolidation process, income taxes and reporting for non-standard transactions. As a result, we have updated our internal controls to
accommodate the modifications to our business processes and accounting procedures. We have evaluated the effect on our internal control over financial reporting of this implementation for the quarter
ended December 31, 2012, and determined that this conversion has not materially affected, and is not reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. There
have been no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
344  

Table of Contents   

PART III

ITEM 10  /    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Except for the information provided in Part 1, Item 1. Business under the heading "Directors and Executive Officers of AIG", all information required by
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement for AIG's 2013 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

ITEM 11  /    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See Item 10 herein.    

ITEM 12  /    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

See Item 10 herein.    

ITEM 13  /    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

See Item 10 herein.    

ITEM 14  /    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
SERVICES

See Item 10 herein.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
345  

Table of Contents   

PART IV

ITEM 15  /    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

(a)    Financial
Statements and Schedules. See accompanying Index to Financial Statements.
      (b)    Exhibits.
See accompanying Exhibit Index.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
346  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 21st of February, 2013.   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
   /s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

(Robert H. Benmosche, President and 
Chief Executive Officer)  

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Robert H. Benmosche and David L. Herzog, and each of
them severally, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to sign in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to do any and all things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules,
regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for all
intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, and his or her
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 21st of February, 2013.   

Signature

Title

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

(Robert H. Benmosche)  
     
  President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

(David L. Herzog)  
      
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ JOSEPH D. COOK 

(Joseph D. Cook)  
      
   Vice President   Finance 
(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ W. DON CORNWELL 

(W. Don Cornwell)  
      
   Director  

/s/ JOHN H. FITZPATRICK 

(John H. Fitzpatrick)  
      
   Director  

/s/ CHRISTOPHER S. LYNCH 

(Christopher S. Lynch)  
      
   Director  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
347  

Table of Contents   

Signature

Title

/s/ ARTHUR C. MARTINEZ 

(Arthur C. Martinez)  
     
  Director  

/s/ GEORGE L. MILES, JR. 

(George L. Miles, Jr.)  
      
   Director  

/s/ HENRY S. MILLER 

(Henry S. Miller)  
      
   Director  

/s/ ROBERT S. MILLER 

(Robert S. Miller)  
      
   Director  

/s/ SUZANNE NORA JOHNSON 

(Suzanne Nora Johnson)  
      
   Director  

/s/ MORRIS W. OFFIT 

(Morris W. Offit)  
      
   Director  

/s/ RONALD A. RITTENMEYER 

(Ronald A. Rittenmeyer)  
      
   Director  

/s/ DOUGLAS M. STEENLAND 

(Douglas M. Steenland)  
      
   Director  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
348  

Table of Contents    

EXHIBIT INDEX   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
349  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
350  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
351  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
352  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Number    

Description    

Location    

(42) Form of Reimbursement Agreement for Use of Corporate Aircraft*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(43) Agreement to Amend Master Transaction Agreement, Guarantee, Pledge and Proceeds Application Agreement and LLC Agreements, dated as of March 7, 2012, among AIG, AM Holdings LLC, AIA Aurora LLC and
the United States Department of the Treasury  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 8, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(44) Agreement to Terminate Intercompany Loan, dated as of March 21, 2012, among AIG, AIA Aurora LLC, AM Holdings LLC and the United States Department of the Treasury  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 22, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(45) Letter Agreement, dated as of March 3, 2012, among AIG, AIA Aurora LLC, AM Holdings LLC and the United States Department of the Treasury  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 6, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(46) First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of October 5, 2012, among AIG, the subsidiary borrowers party thereto, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and
each Several L/C Agent party thereto.  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 5, 2012 (File No. 1-8787)  

(47) Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2010, between American International Group, Inc. and Prudential Financial, Inc. (excluding certain exhibits and schedules)  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 4, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(48) American International Group, Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to AIG's Definitive Proxy Statement, dated April 12, 2010 (Filed No. 1-8787).  

(49) AIG Amended Form of 2010 Stock Incentive Plan DSU Award Agreement*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(50) Form of Award Letter for LTPU-based stock salary*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 28, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(51) Determination Memorandum, dated March 23, 2010, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 2, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(52) Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2010, among American International Group, Inc., ALICO Holdings LLC and MetLife, Inc.  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 11, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(53) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated February 5, 2010, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 8, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(54) Release and Restrictive Covenant Agreement between AIG and Peter Hancock*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 8, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(55) Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement between AIG and Peter Hancock, dated February 8, 2010*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 8, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(56) Determination Memorandum, dated April 16, 2010, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
353  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Number    

Description    

Location    

(57) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated August 3, 2010, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(103) to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(58) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated December 20, 2010, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(104) to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(59) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated May 18, 2010, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(105) to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(60) Amendment No. 1, dated as of March 7, 2010, to the Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of ALICO Holdings LLC  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(106) to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

(61) Determination Memorandum, dated April 1, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 1, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(62) Determination Memorandum, dated April 8, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.109 to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(63) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated October 21, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.110 to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(64) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated August 19, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.111 to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(65) Determination Memorandum, dated April 6, 2012, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 10, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(66) Determination Memorandum, dated May 9, 2012, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(67) Description of Non-Management Director Compensation*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(68) Employment Letter, dated as of June 21, 2012, between Laurette T. Koellner and AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to International Lease Finance Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 21, 2012 (File No. 1-31616).  

(69) AIG Non-Qualified Retirement Income Plan*  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(70) AIG Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(71) Amendment to the AIG Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(72) American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to American General Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998 (File No. 1-7981).  

(73) Amendment Number One to the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(74) Amendment Number Two to the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
     
  Filed herewith.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
354  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Number    

Description    

Location    

(75) Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2011, by and among American Home Assurance Company, Chartis Casualty Company (f/k/a American International South Insurance Company), Chartis Property Casualty
Company (f/k/a AIG Casualty Company), Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, Granite State Insurance Company, Illinois National Insurance Co., National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance Company, The
Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, Chartis Select Insurance Company (f/k/a AIG Excess Liability Insurance Company Ltd.), Chartis Specialty Insurance Company (f/k/a American International Specialty Lines Insurance Company), Landmark
Insurance Company, Lexington Insurance Company, AIU Insurance Company, American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and American Home Assurance Company, National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance
Company and Chartis Overseas Limited acting as members of the Chartis Overseas Association as respects business written or assumed by or from affiliated companies of Chartis Inc. (collectively, the Reinsureds), Eaglestone Reinsurance Company and
National Indemnity Company  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(76) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between AIG and American General Life Insurance Company  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(77) Side Letter, dated as of February 19, 2013, to Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between AIG and American General Life Insurance Company  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(78) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between AIG and The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(79) Side Letter, dated as of February 19, 2013, to Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between AIG and The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New
York  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(80) Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of February 20, 2013, among AIG, Chartis Inc., AIU Insurance Company, American Home Assurance Company, Chartis Casualty Company,
Chartis Property Casualty Company, Chartis Specialty Insurance Company, Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, Granite State Insurance Company, Illinois National Insurance Co., Lexington Insurance Company, National Union Fire Insurance Company
of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance Company and The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania  
     
  Filed herewith.  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
355  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Number    

Description    

Location    

(81) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2011, between AIG and AGC Life Insurance Company  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(82) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between AIG and The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(83) Side Letter, dated as of February 19, 2013, to Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between AIG and The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
     
  Filed herewith.  

(84) Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2012, by and among AIG Capital Corporation, AIG and Jumbo Acquisition Limited  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 10, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

11  
     
  Statement re: computation of per share earnings  
     
  Included in Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

12  
     
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  
     
  Filed herewith.  

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of Registrant  
     
  Filed herewith.  

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  Filed herewith.  

23.1  
     
  Consent of Independent Accountants  
     
  Filed herewith.  

24  
     
  Powers of attorney  
     
  Included on signature page and filed herewith.  

31  
     
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications  
     
  Filed herewith.  

32  
     
  Section 1350 Certifications**  
     
  Filed herewith.  

99.02  
     
  Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act  
     
  Filed herewith.  

99.1  
     
  Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Section 111(b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008  
     
  Filed herewith.  

99.2  
     
  Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Section 111(b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008  
     
  Filed herewith.  

99.3  
     
  AIA Group Limited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended November 30, 2011  
     
  Filed herewith.  

101  
     
  Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Operations
for the three years ended December 31, 2012, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2012, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended
December 31, 2012, (v) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2012 and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
     
  Filed herewith.  

*         This
exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.   

  **       This
information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
356  

Table of Contents    

Summary of Investments   Other than Investments in Related Parties   

      Schedule I     

*         Original
cost of equity securities and fixed maturities is reduced by other-than-temporary impairment charges, and, as to fixed maturity securities, reduced by
repayments and adjusted for amortization of premiums or accretion of discounts.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
357  

Table of Contents    

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 
Balance Sheet   Parent Company Only   

      Schedule II     

*         Eliminated
in consolidation.   

   See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, which include a summary of revisions to prior year balances in connection
with a change in accounting principle.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
358  

Table of Contents   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    

(Continued)     

Statement of Income (Loss)   Parent Company Only   

    Schedule II     

*         Eliminated
in consolidation.    

  See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, which include a summary of revisions to prior
year balances in connection with a change in accounting principle.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
359  

Table of Contents   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    

(Continued)     

Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss)   Parent Company
Only   

    Schedule II     

See accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
360  

Table of Contents    

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    

(Continued)     

Statement of Cash Flows   Parent Company Only    

    Schedule II     

Supplementary disclosure of cash flow information:   

Years Ended December 31,  

(in millions)    

2012    

2011   

2010   

Intercompany non-cash financing and investing activities:   

Capital contributions in the form of available for sale securities  

$   
   4,078   
     
   $  

$  

Capital contributions to subsidiaries through forgiveness of loans  

2,510  

Other capital contributions   net  

579   

523  

346  

Paydown of FRBNY Credit Facility by subsidiary  

4,068  

Investment assets received through reduction of intercompany loan receivable  

468  

Exchange of intercompany payable with loan payable  

469  

Intercompany loan receivable offset by intercompany payable  

18,284  

1,364  

Return of capital and dividend received in the form of cancellation of intercompany loan  

9,303   

Return of capital and dividend received in the form of bond trading securities  

3,320   

3,668  

See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.     
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
361  

Table of Contents    

Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

American International Group, Inc.'s (the Registrant) investments in consolidated subsidiaries are stated at cost plus equity in undistributed income of consolidated
subsidiaries. The accompanying condensed financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of American International
Group, Inc. and subsidiaries included in the Registrant's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (2012 Annual Report on
Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 21, 2013.   

  On
January 1, 2012, the Registrant retrospectively adopted a standard that changed its subsidiaries' method of accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts.
The standard clarifies how to determine whether the costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify as deferred policy acquisition costs. Accordingly,
the Registrant revised its financial information and accompanying notes included herein.   

   The following tables present the Condensed Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 and the Condensed Statement of Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, showing the amounts previously reported, the effect of the change due to the adoption of the standard and the adjusted amounts that are reflected in the Registrant's condensed financial
information:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
362  

Table of Contents   

  The Registrant adopted this standard on January 1, 2012 and included the Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss).   

  The
Registrant includes in its statement of income (loss) dividends from its subsidiaries and equity in undistributed income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries, which represents the net income (loss)
of each of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.   

  On
December 1, 2009, the Registrant and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) completed two transactions that reduced the outstanding balance and the maximum amount of credit available
under the FRBNY Credit Facility by $25 billion. In connection with one of those transactions, the Registrant assigned $16 billion of its obligation under the FRBNY Credit Agreement to a
subsidiary. The Registrant subsequently settled its obligation to the subsidiary with a $15.5 billion non-cash dividend from the subsidiary. The difference was recognized over the
remaining term of the FRBNY Credit Agreement as a reduction to interest expense. The remaining difference was derecognized by AIG through earnings due to the repayment in January 2011 of all amounts
owed under, and the termination of, the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

  Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.   

  The
five-year debt maturity schedule is incorporated by reference from Note 15 to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  The
Registrant files a consolidated federal income tax return with certain subsidiaries and acts as an agent for the consolidated tax group when making payments to the Internal Revenue Service.
The Registrant and its subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the subsidiaries under the written
agreement are included in Due to Affiliates in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.   

  Income
taxes in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets are comprised of the Registrant's current and deferred tax assets, the consolidated group's current income tax receivable, deferred taxes
related to tax attribute carryforwards of AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group and a valuation allowance to reduce the consolidated deferred tax asset to an amount more likely than not to be
realized. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

  The
consolidated U.S. deferred tax asset for net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards and valuation allowance are recorded by the Parent Company, which files the consolidated U.S.
Federal income tax return, and are not allocated to its subsidiaries. Generally, as, and if, the consolidated net operating losses and other tax attribute carryforwards are utilized, the intercompany
tax balance will be settled with the subsidiaries.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
363  

Table of Contents    

Supplementary Insurance Information   

      Schedule III     

   At December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and for the years then ended   

(a)     Liability
for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense with respect to the General Insurance operations are net of discounts of $3.25 billion, $3.18 billion and
$3.22 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  (b)     Reflected
in insurance balances payable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
364  

Table of Contents   

Reinsurance   

      Schedule IV     

   At December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and for the years then ended   

(a)     Excludes
long-duration insurance in force of $399.4 billion related to held-for-sale entities at December 31, 2010.   

  (b)     Includes
accident and health premiums of $1.57 billion in 2010.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
365  

Table of Contents    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

      Schedule V     

   For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010     

*         Includes
recoveries of amounts previously charged off and reclassifications to/from other accounts.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
366  

<EX-10.9>
 2
 a2212976zex-10_9.htm
 EX-10.9

Exhibit 10.9   
       
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  2012 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN   
     
  The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the   Compensation Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), has adopted this American International Group, Inc. 2012 Executive Severance Plan (the   Plan  ), first effective as of December 4, 2012 (the   Effective Date  ).  Terms not defined herein have the meanings provided in the Glossary of Terms.  
     
   I.                     Purpose   
     
  The Plan is maintained for the purpose of providing severance payments and benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees covered by the Plan whose employment is terminated under the circumstances set forth in the Plan.  
     
   II.                    Term   
     
  The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date and continue until terminated by the Compensation Committee with 12 months  notice to Eligible Employees in accordance with  Section VIII  below.  
     
   III.                  Eligibility   
     
  The employees eligible to participate in the Plan at any time (the   Eligible Employees  ) shall be comprised of each employee who (1) is a full-time employee in grade level 27 or above at the time of the termination of his or her employment or (2) is eligible to participate in the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Severance Plan, first effective as of March 11, 2008 and as amended (the   Old Plan  ) as of the Effective Date (an   Old Plan Participant  ).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an employee has an employment agreement (or other agreement or arrangement) that provides for payment of severance in connection with a  Covered Termination  (as defined in  Section IV  below), the employee will not be an Eligible Employee;  provided  that payment of statutorily-required severance shall not prohibit an employee from being an Eligible Employee.  Receipt of the Plan by an Old Plan Participant shall be deemed to constitute notice, delivered as of the Effective Date, for the purpose of terminating the Old Plan under Section VIII of the Old Plan.  
     
   IV.                  Severance   
     
  Subject to  Section IV.G  below, an Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in this  Section IV  if he or she experiences a  Covered Termination   provided  that such benefits shall be modified as set forth in the appendices to the Plan to comply with local laws, bylaws, statutes, regulations, codes of practice or applicable guidance issued by a governmental department or regulatory authority (together referred to as  Local Law ) for any employee whose primary worksite is outside of the United States but is not classified as a Mobile Overseas Personnel; and  provided ,  further , that any Eligible Employee who experiences a  Covered Termination  and is entitled to statutorily-required severance shall receive the greater of such statutorily-required severance and the benefits described in this  Section IV  or shall have his or her benefits described in this  
     
  1    

Section IV    reduced by the statutorily-required severance paid to the Eligible Employee, as required by applicable law.  
     
  A   Covered Termination      shall be:  
     
  (1) For all Eligible Employees, a termination of service during the term of the Plan for any reason other than the Eligible Employee s: (a) death; (b) Disability; (c) resignation (including any resignation that an Eligible Employee may assert was a constructive discharge); or (d) termination by the Company or its subsidiaries for Cause (for purposes of this Plan, the term subsidiaries shall be deemed to include both direct and indirect subsidiaries); and  
     
  (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, for any Eligible Employees in grade level 27 or above, such Eligible Employee s termination of service during the term of the Plan as a result of resignation from his or her employment for Good Reason.  
     
  Unless otherwise stated in the Plan, for purposes of an Eligible Employee s employment under the Plan,  termination  of employment or service shall mean the date upon which the Eligible Employee ceases to perform his or her employment duties and responsibilities for the Company and/or each of its subsidiaries and, to the extent consistent with the foregoing, shall be the  last day worked/end work date  that is coded in the payroll system applicable to the Eligible Employee.  
     
   A.            Accrued Wages and Expense Reimbursements   
     
  If an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee shall receive: (1) accrued wages due through the date of termination in accordance with the Eligible Employee s employer s normal payroll practices; (2) reimbursement for any unreimbursed business expenses properly incurred by the Eligible Employee prior to the date of termination in accordance with Company policy (and for which the Eligible Employee has submitted proper documentation as may be required by the Company, with such documentation and each reimbursement to occur not later than one year after the Eligible Employee s date of termination); and (3) any accrued but unused vacation pay in a lump sum paid within two and one-half months after the end of the calendar year in which the Eligible Employee s date of termination occurs (the   Termination Year  ).  
     
   B.            Severance, Generally   
     
  Except as provided in  Section IV.C  below, in the event of a Covered Termination, an Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive the following:  
     
  (1) (a) A lump sum cash payment equal to the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus) for the year immediately preceding the Termination Year (the   Prior Year  ) if such bonus has not been paid as of the date of termination (the   Prior Year Incentive  ), based on the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive target amount and the actual performance of the Company and/or applicable business unit or function, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion. The Prior Year Incentive will be paid when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees and will be subject to the same clawback and repayment terms as such regularly-paid bonuses.  
     
  2    

(b) A lump sum cash payment equal to the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus with respect to the Termination Year, prorated to reflect the number of full months the Eligible Employee was actively employed or on an approved leave of absence during which the Participant is receiving salary continuation from a Company payroll (a  Paid Leave of Absence ) in the Termination Year (the   Pro Rata Incentive    provided , however, that to the extent an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination prior to April 1 of the Termination Year, no Pro Rata Incentive shall be paid.  Calculation of the Pro Rata Incentive will be based on an Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive target amount and the actual performance of the Company and/or applicable business unit or function, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion.    The Pro Rata Incentive will be paid when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Termination Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year) and will be subject to the same clawback and repayment terms as such regularly-paid bonuses.  
     
  For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall an Eligible Employee be entitled to a duplication of any amounts payable under this paragraph or paragraph (1) above and under the terms of the American International Group, Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan    as a result of his or her Covered Termination.  
     
  (2) A lump sum cash payment equal to the product of: (a) a  Multiplier  (as defined below)  times  (b) the sum of (i) the greater of actual base salary earned by the Eligible Employee over the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the date of termination and the Eligible Employee s annualized base salary rate as of the date of termination  plus  (ii) the average of the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus actually paid for the three (3) most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year for which annual short-term incentive bonuses had generally been paid. Such amount will be paid as soon as practicable following the Covered Termination but in no event later than sixty (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year).  If the Eligible Employee resigns for Good Reason, the amount described in clause (i) shall be the greater of actual base salary earned by the Eligible Employee over the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the event giving rise to Good Reason and the Eligible Employee s annualized base salary rate immediately prior to the event giving rise to Good Reason.  
     
  For purposes of paragraph (1)(b) above, if no target annual short-term incentive bonus is established for the Termination Year, the Pro Rata Incentive shall be based on the average of the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive bonuses paid with respect to the three (3) most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year for which annual short-term incentive bonuses had generally been paid;  provided  that (A) if the Eligible Employee was not employed for all years that would otherwise be included in the average, the Eligible Employee s target annual short-term incentive bonus with respect to the most recently completed calendar year preceding the Termination Year in which the Eligible Employee was employed shall be used and (B) if the Eligible Employee received no annual short-term incentive bonus for one of the years that would otherwise be included in the average as a result of an approved leave of absence, the Eligible Employee s target annual short-term incentive bonus with respect to the most recently completed calendar year preceding the Termination Year in which such condition did not apply shall be used.  
     
  3    

With respect to paragraph 2 above, (a) if the Eligible Employee was not employed for all years that would otherwise be included in the average, the average shall be computed based on each such year in which Eligible Employee was employed; (b) if the Eligible Employee earns or is awarded no short-term incentive bonus for one of the years that would otherwise be included in the average as a result of an approved leave of absence, the average shall be computed by using the three most recently completed calendar years preceding the calendar year of termination in which such condition did not apply; and (c) if an Eligible Employee was not employed long enough for the Eligible Employee s first short-term incentive bonus to be paid, the Eligible Employee s target short-term incentive bonus shall be used in lieu of the average described above.  
     
  For the avoidance of doubt, with respect to this Section IV.B, (i) for any year in which an Eligible Employee was a  Top 26-100  employee subject to the determinations of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation ( the   Special Master  ), for the purposes of determining what constitutes a short-term annual incentive bonus, (x) Variable Cash granted to the Eligible Employee (  Top 26-100 Variable Cash  ) shall be deemed to be an annual short-term incentive bonus to the extent actual annual short-term incentive bonus paid is used above in this Section, and (y) Variable Cash targets with respect to the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be an annual short-term incentive bonus to the extent target annual short-term incentive bonus is used above in this Section, and (ii) for any year in which an Eligible Employee was a  Top 25  employee subject to the determinations of the Special Master, restricted stock units issued in accordance with applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and applicable requirements of agreements between the Company and the U.S. government (referred to as  TARP RSUs ) shall be considered part of annual short-term incentive bonuses solely for purposes of this Plan.  
     
  The   Multiplier   shall be as follows:  
     
  (1)  For an Eligible Employee in grade level 27 or 28: (a) 1 in the event of a termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason; or (b) 1.5 in the event of a termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control (a   Change in Control Termination   and  
     
  (2)  For an Eligible Employee in grade level 29 or above: (a) 1.5 in the event of a termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason; or (b) 2 in the event of Change in Control Termination.  
     
   C.    Severance for Old Plan Participants   
     
  If an Old Plan Participant experiences a Covered Termination, he or she shall receive (1) the Prior Year Incentive (if applicable) , (2) the Pro Rata Incentive and (3) severance equal to (i) for an Old Plan Participant below grade level 27, the  Old Plan Benefit  (as defined below) or (ii) for an Old Plan Participant in grade level 27 or above, (A) the Old Plan Benefit  plus  (B) the difference, if any, between the amount provided in  Section IV.B.2  and the  Old Plan Benefit  (the   New Plan Payment  ).  The   Old Plan Benefit   shall be the sum of the following, divided by 12, and then multiplied by the number of months in the  Severance Period  (as defined below) applicable to the Old Plan Participant:  
     
  (1)  Annual base salary as of the date of termination;  plus   
     
  4    

(2)  The average of the Old Plan Participant s  Annual Cash Bonuses  (as defined below) awarded and paid with respect to the three most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year (including any year in which the bonus was zero);  provided  that: (a) if the date of termination occurs during a calendar year before the time that Annual Cash Bonuses have generally been paid out to employees for the prior calendar year s performance, the average shall be computed based on the second, third and fourth calendar years prior to the calendar year in which the termination occurs, (b) if the Old Plan Participant was not employed for all years that would otherwise be included in the average, the average shall be computed based on each such year in which the Old Plan Participant was employed and (c) if the Old Plan Participant earns or is awarded no bonus for one of the years that would otherwise be included in the average as a result of an approved leave of absence, the average shall be computed by using the three most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year in which such condition did not apply.  Solely for purposes of this Plan,   Annual Cash Bonus   means any    performance based, year-end cash bonus or a cash bonus in lieu of a year-end cash bonus, and the amount of any Annual Cash Bonus awarded and paid shall include any amount of such bonus voluntarily deferred by the Old Plan Participant, Top 26-100 Variable Cash and TARP restricted stock units issued to  Top 25  employees in accordance with applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, as applicable.  
     
  The   Severance Period   shall be:  
     
  (a)  For each Old Plan Participant who is a Senior Vice President or higher of the Company as of the Transition Date (or, if earlier, the date of termination), 24 months; and  
     
  (b)  For all other Old Plan Participants, one month per year of service with the Company up to a maximum of 12 months, except that (a) no Old Plan Participant shall have a Severance Period of less than six months regardless of years of service and (b) any Old Plan Participant who was also eligible to receive benefits under the American International Group, Inc. Executive Severance Plan that was terminated as of June 26, 2008 (the   Initial Plan  ) shall be entitled to a Severance Period that is no shorter than what would have been provided to such Old Plan Participant under the terms of the Initial Plan if such Old Plan Participant had been terminated on December 31, 2007.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Severance Period for an Old Plan Participant who is a Senior Vice President solely of a subsidiary of the Company (and not of American International Group, Inc.) shall be determined under this paragraph (2).  
     
  For Covered Terminations prior to January 1, 2014 (the   Transition Date  ), the Old Plan Benefit shall be paid over the number of months in the Severance Period in substantially equal weekly, biweekly, semi-monthly or monthly installments (each, a   Severance Installment  ) in accordance with the Old Plan Participant s employer s normal payroll practices.  Severance Installments paid to Old Plan Participants shall commence on a payroll date of the Old Plan Participant s employer within 60 days following the Old Plan Participant s termination of employment;  provided  that if the last day of such 60-day period ends in a calendar year after the Termination Year, then payment shall occur in the second calendar year.  
     
  5    

For Covered Terminations on or after the Transition Date, the Old Plan Benefit will be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Covered Termination but in no event later than sixty (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year).  
     
  Any New Plan Payment will be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Covered Termination but in no event later than (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year);  provided  that any Pro Rata Incentive will be paid when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Termination Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year) and any Prior Year Incentive will be paid when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the Termination Year).  
     
   D.     Continued Health and Life Insurance Coverage and Participation in Retiree Health and Retiree Life for Eligible Employees   
     
  Subject to  Section IV.F , if an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to continued health insurance coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (  COBRA  ), if applicable, for a period in accordance with the requirements under COBRA;  provided ,  however , that the Eligible Employee shall be solely responsible for paying the full cost of the monthly premiums for such COBRA coverage; and  provided, further , that such coverage shall not be provided if during such period the Eligible Employee is or becomes ineligible under the provisions of COBRA for continuing coverage.  Any Eligible Employee who experiences a Covered Termination will receive one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining the Eligible Employee s eligibility to participate in any Company retiree health plan and, if eligible, may choose to participate in any such plan as of his or her date of termination at the applicable rate or pay for COBRA coverage, if applicable.  If such an Eligible Employee chooses to pay for COBRA coverage and retains such coverage for the full COBRA period, the Eligible Employee may participate in the applicable Company retiree health plan(s) following the COBRA period.  
     
  If an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee shall also be entitled to an additional lump-sum payment of $40,000    (the   Supplemental Health   Life Payment  ).  The Supplemental Health   Life Payment may, among other things, be payable towards COBRA healthcare and life insurance coverage after the Eligible Employee s date of termination.  
     
   E.                    Additional Non-qualified Pension Credits for Eligible Employees   
     
  Subject to  Section IV.F , if an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee will receive one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining vesting and eligibility for retirement (including early retirement) under the Company s non-qualified pension plans (plans that are not intended to be qualified under the provisions of section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  )) in which such Eligible Employee was actively participating immediately prior to his or her date of termination (the   Non-Qualified Pension Plans  ).  Eligible Employees shall commence payments under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans at the time specified in the applicable plan, determined as if  
     
  6    

Qualified Plan Retirement Income  (as defined in the applicable plan) began to be paid immediately following the Eligible Employee s date of termination.  
     
   F.      Transition of Old Plan Participants   
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the Plan, if an Old Plan Participant experiences a Covered Termination before the Transition Date, the Old Plan Participant shall not receive any benefits under  Sections IV.D  or  IV.E  of the Plan, and, instead, the terms of Sections IV.C through F of the Old Plan shall apply.  
     
   G.      Limitations on Severance; Reductions of Severance   
     
  The amounts described in  Subsections B  through  F  of this  Section IV  (collectively referred to as   Severance  ) are subject to the Eligible Employee s continued compliance with any applicable release and/or restrictive covenant agreement (referred to generically as the   Release  ) that the Company may require under other compensation arrangements, any applicable employment agreement or the release pursuant to  Section VI  below.  Failure to execute or adhere to such a Release, or the revocation of such a Release, by the Eligible Employee shall result in a forfeiture of all Severance under the Plan.  (For the avoidance of doubt, any Severance Installment or other Severance benefit due under the terms of the Plan shall be forfeited to the extent such payment would have otherwise been due but for the Eligible Employee s failure to provide the Company with a duly executed and effective Release.)  Nothing herein shall preclude the Company in its sole discretion from requiring the Eligible Employee to enter into other such releases or agreements as a condition to receiving Severance under the Plan.  
     
   H.      Code Section 409A   
     
  Except as provided below, payments under the Plan are intended to satisfy the  short-term deferral exception  under section 409A of the Code ( Code section 409A ).  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Old Plan Benefit payments with respect to Old Plan Participants who experience a Covered Termination prior to the Transition Date are intended to comply with Code section 409A, including any regulatory exceptions (such as the short-term deferral and separation pay exceptions) that may be applicable, and the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered accordingly.  To the extent applicable, each payment described in this paragraph shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Code section 409A and shall be made only in the event of a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code section 409A.  If an Old Plan Participant experiences a Covered Termination on or after the Transition Date due to his or her resignation for Good Reason and the Plan Administrator determines that the circumstances constituting Good Reason occurred prior to the Transition Date (and, in any event, would have constituted Good Reason under Section IV.K of the Old Plan), any Severance benefit that would otherwise be payable or due under  Section IV  of the Plan shall be paid at the time and in the form that severance benefits would have been provided under the Old Plan.  If the Plan Administrator determines that an Old Plan Participant who experiences a Covered Termination prior to the Transition Date is a  specified employee  for purposes of Code section 409A, any Severance benefit that would otherwise be payable or due under  Section IV  of the Plan shall be delayed for six months to the extent that such Severance is determined to constitute  deferred compensation  under Code section 409A.  In such case, the Old Plan Participant shall not receive such Severance benefit that is subject to the six-month delay until the first scheduled payroll  
     
  7    

date that occurs more than six months following the date of termination (the   First Payment Date  ) and, on the First Payment Date, the Company shall pay the Old Plan Participant an amount equal to the sum of the Severance benefits that would have been payable in respect of the period preceding the First Payment Date but for the delay imposed on account of Code section 409A.  
     
  The Plan Administrator (as defined in  Section VII.A ) will have full authority to give effect to the intent of this  Section VI.H .  
     
   I.                     Covenants and for  Cause  Terminations   
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, (a) if at any time the Eligible Employee breaches any of the provisions of a Release, or revokes it,    or (b) if within one year after the last payment of Severance under the Plan, the Plan Administrator determines that grounds existed, on or prior to the date of termination of the Eligible Employee s employment with the Company, including prior to the Effective Date, for the Company to terminate the Eligible Employee s employment for  Cause :  
     
  (1)  No further payments or benefits shall be due under this  Section IV ; and  
     
  (2)  The Eligible Employee shall be obligated to repay to the Company, immediately and in a cash lump sum, the amount of any Severance benefits (other than any amounts received by the Eligible Employee under  Sections IV.D ,  E  or  F ) previously received by the Eligible Employee (which shall, for the avoidance of doubt, be calculated on a pre-tax basis);  
     
   provided    that the Eligible Employee shall in all events be entitled to receive accrued wages, expense reimbursement and accrued but unused vacation pay as set forth in  Section IV.A  above.  
     
   J.                     No Rights   
     
  Other than as provided in this  Section IV , an Eligible Employee shall have no rights to any compensation or any other benefits under the Plan.  All other benefits, if any, due to the Eligible Employee following the date of termination shall be determined in accordance with the plans, policies and practices of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company in effect on the date of termination.    Whether the Eligible Employee s employment has terminated for purposes of any Company plan or arrangement shall be determined on the basis of the applicable terms of the plan or arrangement.  
     
   K.                    Non U.S. Participants   
     
  To the extent the Local Laws of a country or non-U.S. jurisdiction in which an Eligible Employee works would prohibit any provision, feature or requirement of the Plan, or such Local Laws, an applicable collective bargaining of similar collective agreement, the determination of a court or other adjudicative body or an Eligible Employee s contract of employment would require that the benefits provided under the Plan be duplicative of or in addition to other Company or subsidiary or employer provided or paid severance benefits or termination-related benefits to which such Eligible Employee is entitled,  the CMRC hereby delegates to the International ESP Committee the responsibility to develop a written appendix to the Plan specific to such country or non-U.S. jurisdiction that addresses the problematic provision, feature or requirement while maintaining as much of the intent and  
     
  8    

goals of the Plan as possible and also complying with Local Laws.  The International ESP Committee will share such appendix with all Eligible Employees in such country or non-U.S. jurisdiction, and with the Claims Administrator, and will maintain an inventory of all such appendices.  The International ESP Committee shall periodically consult with local counsel in such country to confirm that such appendices remain permissible, enforceable, and in accordance with Local Law.  The International ESP Committee shall be comprised of the Company s most senior executive whose responsibility it is to oversee both the Corporate Compensation Department and the Corporate Benefits Department (who shall be the Chairman of the International ESP Committee); and the Chairman shall appoint no less than two and no more than four qualified executives from among the Company s human resources executives and human resources attorneys to be members of the International ESP Committee with him.  To the extent the position described in first clause of the sentence immediately above is vacant, the Chairman of the International ESP Committee shall be the executive described in the first paragraph of Section X of the Plan.  
     
   V.                    No Duplication; No Mitigation   
     
   A.            No Duplication   
     
  The Plan is not intended to, and shall not result in any duplication of payments or benefits to any Eligible Employee.  The Compensation Committee shall be authorized to interpret the Plan to give effect to the preceding sentence.  
     
   B.            No Mitigation   
     
  In order for an Eligible Employee to receive the Severance described in the Plan, the Eligible Employee shall be under no obligation to seek other employment or otherwise mitigate the obligations of the Company under the Plan, and there shall be no offset against any amounts due under the Plan on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that the Eligible Employee may obtain.  
     
   VI.                  Release and Restrictive Covenant Agreement   
     
  Subject to  Sections IV.G  and  H  above, the Company may require and condition payment of the Severance on the Eligible Employee s execution of a Release in the form attached to the Plan as  Exhibit A , as such Release may be modified by the General Counsel of the Company or his or her designee;  provided ,  however , that such Release must be executed within 60 days after the date of termination;  provided ,  further , that if the Local Laws of a country or non-U.S. jurisdiction in which an Eligible Employee works would not permit all or a portion of the Release to be structured or executed in the form attached hereto, the General Counsel of the Company or his or her designee shall have the discretion to create a release that incorporates as much of the Release as possible while also complying with such Local Laws.  
     
   VII.                 Plan Administration   
     
   A.            Compensation Committee   
     
  The Plan shall be interpreted, administered and operated by the Compensation Committee, which shall have the complete authority, in its sole discretion, subject to the express provisions of the Plan, to interpret the Plan, adopt any rules and regulations for  
     
  9    

carrying out the Plan as may be appropriate and decide any and all matters and make any and all determinations arising under or otherwise necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  All interpretations and decisions by the Compensation Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties affected thereby, and shall supersede any decisions or actions by the  Claims Administrator  (as defined below).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee shall have the right to delegate to any individual member of the Compensation Committee or to any executive of the Company any of the Compensation Committee s authority under the Plan;  provided ,  that  no person shall act as Plan Administrator in any matter directly relating to his or her eligibility or amount of Severance under the Plan.  The Compensation Committee and/or the member of the Compensation Committee or the executive of the Company delegated any authority under the Plan shall be referred to in the Plan as the   Plan Administrator .   
     
   B.            Expenses and Liabilities   
     
  All expenses and liabilities that the Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator incur in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Company.  The Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, appraisers, brokers or other persons in connection with such administration, and the Plan Administrator, the Claims Administrator, the Company and the Company s officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of any such persons.  No member of the Compensation Committee or any executive delegated by the Compensation Committee as Plan Administrator, or the Claims Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and all members of the Compensation Committee and any executive delegated by the Compensation Committee as the Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator shall be fully protected by the Company in respect of any such action, determination or interpretation to the extent permitted by (a) the Company s charter; (b) the Company s bylaws and (c) applicable law.  
     
   VIII.               Termination and Amendment   
     
   A.            Termination   
     
  The Compensation Committee may terminate the Plan in accordance with  Section II  of the Plan,  provided  that no termination shall adversely affect the payments or benefits to which any Eligible Employee has become entitled by virtue of a Covered Termination occurring before the time of termination of the Plan.  Any notice of termination shall be in accordance with  Section VIII.C  below.  
     
   B.            Amendment   
     
  The Compensation Committee may amend the Plan in any manner,  provided  that, in the event an amendment is determined by the Compensation Committee to be, in the aggregate, material and adverse to an Eligible Employee (taking into account any aspects of such amendments that are beneficial to the Eligible Employee), the Compensation Committee shall provide 12 months  notice to such Eligible Employee in accordance with  Section VIII.C  below (and no such change shall be effective before the second anniversary of the Effective Date).  In addition, the Compensation Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any manner it determines in good faith is necessary or appropriate (1) to  
     
  10    

comply with applicable law or (2) to comply with Code section 409A.  Any notice of amendment shall be in accordance with  Section VIII.C  below.  
     
  For the avoidance of doubt, amendments under the preceding sentence may be material and adverse to Eligible Employees.  In addition, if an employee was not an Eligible Employee because he or she had an employment agreement (or other agreement or arrangement) that contemplated payment of severance with respect to any termination, the Compensation Committee may amend the Plan to exclude such employee without notice to such employee (notwithstanding the expiration of such agreement or arrangement) if it determines that in good faith that such exclusion is necessary to comply with Code section 409A.  
     
   C.                    Notice of Termination or Amendment   
     
  The Company shall be deemed to have provided any notice required by this  Section VIII  if the Company makes a reasonable, good faith effort to email or otherwise contact all Eligible Employees.  For the avoidance of doubt, notice shall be deemed to have been validly delivered to every Eligible Employee notwithstanding that certain individual Eligible Employees do not receive actual notice, if the Company makes reasonable, good faith efforts as provided in the preceding sentence.  
     
   IX.                                      Claims and Appeals Procedures   
     
  The following claim review and claim appeal procedures apply to all claims of any nature related to the Plan.  For purposes of the Plan, the  Claims Administrator  is the Company s most senior executive whose responsibility it is to oversee both the Corporate Compensation Department and the Corporate Benefits Department;  provided however , if that aforementioned position is vacant, then the Company s senior most executive whose responsibility it is to oversee all Human Resources matters of the Company on a global basis shall be the Claims Administrator and if both of the immediately aforementioned positions are vacant, then the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall appoint an individual to be the Claims Administrator.  The Claims Administrator, in his or her discretion, may delegate in writing the Claims Administrator responsibilities to a committee comprised of three individuals selected from among the human resources executives and human resources attorneys of the Company, who shall act as Claims Administrator.  
     
   A.                    Initial Claim   
     
  To the extent that an Eligible Employee believes that he or she is entitled to a benefit under the Plan that such Eligible Employee has not received, such Eligible Employee may file a claim for benefits under the Plan, as provided in this  Section IX  of the Plan.  
     
  1.                   Procedure for Filing a Claim   
     
  An Eligible Employee must submit a claim in writing on the appropriate claim form (or in such other manner acceptable to the Claims Administrator), along with any supporting comments, documents, records and other information, to the Claims Administrator in person or by messenger.  
     
  11    

If an Eligible Employee fails to properly file a claim for a benefit under the Plan, the Eligible Employee shall be considered not to have exhausted all administrative remedies under the Plan, and shall not be able to bring any legal action for the benefit.  Claims and appeals of denied claims may be pursued by an Eligible Employee, or if approved by the Claims Administrator, by an Eligible Employee s authorized representative.  
     
  2.                   Initial Claim Review   
     
  The Claims Administrator shall conduct the initial claim review.  The Claims Administrator shall consider the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan and amendments to the Plan, and any information and evidence presented by the Eligible Employee and any other relevant information.  
     
  3.                   Initial Benefit Determination   
     
  (a)              Timing of Notification on Initial Claim   
     
  The Claims Administrator shall notify an Eligible Employee about his or her claim within a reasonable period of time, but, in any event, within 90 days after the Plan Administrator or Claims Administrator, as the case may be, receives the Eligible Employee s claim, unless the Claims Administrator determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim.  If the Claims Administrator determines that an extension is needed, the Eligible Employee shall be notified before the end of the initial 90-day period.  The notification shall say what special circumstances require an extension of time.  The Eligible Employee shall be told the date by which the Claims Administrator expects to render the determination, which in any event shall be within 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period.  
     
  If such an extension is necessary because an Eligible Employee did not submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the time period in which the Plan Administrator is required to make a decision shall be frozen from the date on which the notification is sent to the Eligible Employee until the Eligible Employee responds to the request for additional information.  If the Eligible Employee fails to provide the necessary information in a reasonable period of time, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, decide the Eligible Employee s claim based on the information already provided.  
     
  (b)              Manner and Content of Notification of Denied Claim   
     
  In the event the Claims Administrator denies an Eligible Employee s claim for benefits, the Claims Administrator shall provide an Eligible Employee with written or electronic notice of any denial, in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations.  The notification shall include:  
     
  (i)  The specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
     
  (ii)  Reference to the specific provision(s) of the Plan on which the determination is based;  
     
  (iii)  A description of any additional material or information necessary for an Eligible Employee to revise the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and  
     
  12    

(iv)  A description of the Plan s review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures.  
     
  4.                   Claims Processing   
     
  In the event the Claims Administrator approves an Eligible Employee s claim for benefits, the Claims Administrator shall provide the Release that the Eligible Employee must sign pursuant Section VI of the Plan, and shall coordinate with the applicable Company payroll department, the Company benefits department, and any other Company entity or counsel as necessary to implement the terms of  Section IV  of the Plan.  
     
   B.                    Review of Initial Benefit Denial   
     
  1.                   Procedure for Filing an Appeal of a Denial   
     
  Any appeal of a denial must be delivered to the Plan Administrator within 60 days after an Eligible Employee receives notice of denial.  Failure to appeal within the 60-day period shall be considered a failure to exhaust all administrative remedies under the Plan and shall make an Eligible Employee unable to bring a legal action to recover a benefit under the Plan.  An Eligible Employee s appeal must be in writing, using the appropriate form provided by the Plan Administrator (or in such other manner acceptable to the Plan Administrator).  The request for an appeal must be filed with the Plan Administrator in person or by messenger, in either case, evidenced by written receipt or by first-class postage-paid mail and return receipt requested, to the Plan Administrator.  
     
  2.                   Review Procedures for Denials   
     
  The Plan Administrator shall provide a review that takes into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by an Eligible Employee without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  An Eligible Employee shall have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim and shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all relevant documents.  
     
  3.                   Timing of Notification of Benefit Determination on Review   
     
  The Plan Administrator shall notify an Eligible Employee of the Plan Administrator s decision within a reasonable period of time, but in any event within 60 days after the Plan Administrator receives the Eligible Employee s request for review, unless the Plan Administrator determines that special circumstances require more time for processing the review of the adverse benefit determination.  
     
  If the Plan Administrator determines that an extension is required, the Plan Administrator shall tell an Eligible Employee in writing before the end of the initial 60-day period.  The Plan Administrator shall tell the Eligible Employee the special circumstances that require an extension of time, and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render the determination on review, which in any event shall be within 60 days from the end of the initial 60-day period.  
     
  If such an extension is necessary because an Eligible Employee did not submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the time period in which the Plan Administrator  
     
  13    

is required to make a decision shall be frozen from the date on which the notification is sent to the Eligible Employee until the Eligible Employee responds to the request for additional information.  If the Eligible Employee fails to provide the necessary information in a reasonable period of time, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, decide the Eligible Employee s claim based on the information already provided.  
     
  4.                   Manner and Content of Notification of Benefit Determination on Review   
     
  The Plan Administrator shall provide a notice of the Plan s benefit determination on review, in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations.  If an Eligible Employee s appeal is denied, the notification shall include:  
     
  (a)  The specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
     
  (b)  Reference to the specific provision(s) of the Plan on which the determination is based; and  
     
  (c)  A statement that the Eligible Employee is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all relevant documents.  
     
  If an Eligible Employee s appeal is approved, the Plan Administrator shall forward the claim to the Claims Administrator for processing in accordance with  Section IX.A.4  above.  
     
   C.                    Legal Action   
     
  An Eligible Employee cannot bring any action to recover any benefit under the Plan if the Eligible Employee does not file a valid claim for a benefit and seek timely review of a denial of that claim.  
     
   X.                                           Withholding Taxes   
     
  The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan such federal, state, local or other taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.  
     
   XI.                                      Miscellaneous   
     
   A.                    No Effect on Other Benefits   
     
  Any Severance received by an Eligible Employee under the Plan shall not be counted as compensation for purposes of determining benefits under other benefit plans, programs, policies and agreements, except to the extent expressly provided therein or in the Plan.  With respect to any benefit plan, program, policy or agreement that takes into account only base salary as relevant compensation, only the portion of such Severance that is payable on account of annual base salary as of the date of termination as calculated in  Section IV.B.1  shall be taken into account for purposes of such benefit plan, program, policy or agreement.  
     
  14    

B.                    Unfunded Obligation   
     
  Any Severance and benefits provided under the Plan shall constitute an unfunded obligation of the Company.  Severance and other benefits paid under the Plan will be made, when due, entirely by the Company from its general assets.  The Plan shall constitute solely an unsecured promise by the Company to provide Severance to Eligible Employees to the extent provided herein.  For the avoidance of doubt, any pension, health or life insurance benefits to which an Eligible Employee may be entitled under the Plan shall be provided under other applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.  The Plan does not provide the substantive benefits under such other employee benefit plans, and nothing in the Plan shall restrict the Company s ability to amend, modify or terminate such other employee benefit plans.  
     
   C.                    Employment Status   
     
  The Plan does not create an employment relationship between any Eligible Employee and the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  The Plan is not a contract of employment, is not part of a contract of employment (unless such contract explicitly incorporates the Plan into such contract), does not guarantee the Eligible Employee employment for any specified period and does not limit the right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate the employment of the Eligible Employee at any time for any reason or no reason or to change the status of any Eligible Employee s employment or to change any employment policies.  
     
   D.                    Section Headings   
     
  The section headings contained in the Plan are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not in any way affect the meaning of any provision of the Plan.  
     
   E.                    Governing Law   
     
  It is intended that the Plan be an  employee welfare benefit plan  within the meaning of Section 3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) maintained for the purpose of providing benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, and the Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with such intent.  The Plan Administrator shall provide any documents relating to the Plan to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor upon request.  The Plan and all rights under the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA, and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, with the laws of the State of New York.  The Plan shall also be subject to all applicable non-U.S. laws as to Eligible Employees located outside of the United States.  
     
  In the event that any provision of the Plan is not permitted by the Local Laws, of a country or jurisdiction in which an Eligible Employee works, such Local Law shall supersede or modify (as applicable) that provision of the Plan with respect to that Eligible Employee.  
     
   F.                     Compensation Requirements; Superseding Authority   
     
  The Plan and payments hereunder shall be subject to applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and applicable requirements of agreements between the Company and the U.S. government, or an agency or instrumentality thereof,  
     
  15    

as the same are in effect from time to time.  Eligible Employees may receive payments under the Plan only to the extent consistent with those regulations and requirements.  
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board reserves the authority to cancel or reduce the Severance provided under the Plan or restructure such Severance provided under the Plan (including, without limitation, by requiring any cash payment to be delivered in whole or in part in any other property, adding a condition to or deferring the vesting or delivery of any payment and/or restricting the transferability of any stock or other property delivered in satisfaction of the Severance provided under the Plan), in each case, if the Board determines, in its reasonable discretion, that the Company faces a significant threat to its financial viability due to extraordinary adverse circumstances;  provided  that, in no event shall such authority extend to any action that would (1) if any portion of the Severance provided under the Plan is determined by the Company to be an equity-classified award under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 718, cancel, reduce or defer the vesting of such portion of the Severance provided under the Plan or delay the transferability of any stock or other property delivered in satisfaction of such portion for more than an additional five years; (2) violate any applicable law (including any applicable non-US law); or (3) cause the Severance provided under the Plan to cease to comply with Code section 409A.  
     
   G.                   Assignment   
     
  The Plan shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by an Eligible Employee s personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If an Eligible Employee should die while any amount is still payable to the Eligible Employee under the Plan had the Eligible Employee continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan, or as determined by the Compensation Committee, to the Eligible Employee s estate.  An Eligible Employee s rights under the Plan shall not otherwise be transferable or subject to lien or attachment.  
     
  16    

Glossary of Terms   
     
    Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.  
     
    Cause   shall mean (i) the Eligible Employee s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) the Eligible Employee s engagement in any conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) the Eligible Employee s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; or (iv) the Eligible Employee s material violation of the Company s codes or conduct or any other Company policy as in effect from time to time.  The Determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.  The Plan Administrator shall also have the authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences of the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting Cause.  
     
    Change in Control   shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:  
     
  (1)  Individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the   Incumbent Directors  ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board,  provided  that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director;  provided ,  however , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;  
     
  (2)  Any  person  (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), is or becomes a  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (  Company Voting Securities    provided ,  however , that the event described in this paragraph (2) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control by virtue of an acquisition of Company Voting Securities:  (A) by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (B) by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or (C) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities;  
     
  (3)  The consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company (a   Business   
     
  1    

Combination    ) that results in any person (other than the United States Department of Treasury) becoming the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination;  
     
  (4)  The consummation of a sale of all of substantially all of the Company s assets (other than to an affiliate of the Company); or  
     
  (5)  The Company s stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding;  provided  that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control shall then occur.  
     
    Disability   shall mean a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 12 months during which the Eligible Employee qualifies for income replacement benefits under the Eligible Employee s employer s long-term disability plan for at least 3 months, or, if the Eligible Employee does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which the Eligible Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.  
     
    Exchange Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.  
     
    Good Reason   shall mean, in the absence of written consent of the Eligible Employee, a reduction of more than twenty percent (20%) in the Eligible Employee s annual target direct compensation (including annual base salary, short-term incentive opportunity and long-term incentive opportunity);  provided  that    such reduction will not constitute Good Reason if it results from a Board-approved program generally applicable to similarly-situated employees;  provided ,  further ,    that prior to the Transition Date, for Old Plan Participants, Good Reason shall have the meaning given in  Section IV.K  the Old Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination for Good Reason shall not have occurred unless (a) the Eligible Employee gives written notice to the Company of termination of employment within 30 days after the Eligible Employee first becomes aware of the occurrence of the circumstances constituting Good Reason, specifying in detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and the Company has failed within 30 days after receipt of such notice to cure the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and (b) the Eligible Employee s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Code section 409A) occurs no later than two years following the initial existence of the circumstances giving rise to Good Reason.  
     
  2    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  RELEASE AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AGREEMENT   
     
  This Release and Restrictive Covenant Agreement (the   Agreement  ) is entered into by and between                                        (the   Employee  ) and American International Group, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (the   Company  ).  
     
  Each term defined in the American International Group, Inc. 2012 Executive Severance Plan (the   Plan  ) has the same meaning when used in this Agreement.  
     
  In addition, each term defined in the American International Group, Inc. Executive Severance Plan (the   Old Plan  ) has the same meaning when used in sections of this Agreement discussing the Old Plan.  
     
   I.                                                Termination of Employment   
     
  The Employee s employment with the Company and each of its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates (collectively   AIG  ) shall terminate on                                (the   Termination Date  ) and, as of that date, the Employee shall cease performing the Employee s employment duties and responsibilities for AIG and shall no longer report to work for AIG.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term  controlled affiliates  means an entity of which the Company directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares.  
     
   II.                                           Severance   
     
    [Non Grandfathered (Newly Eligible) Participants]    
     
   [   T  he Employee shall receive a lump sum severance payment in the gross amount of $                              , less applicable tax and benefit withholdings paid out in a lump sum as soon as practicable but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the Termination Date (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year in accordance with  Section IV.B(2)  of the Plan.  The Employee shall also receive a prorated annual short-term incentive bonus for the Termination Year calculated in accordance with  Section IV.B(1)(b)  of the Plan and payable when such incentives are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year).  [ The Employee shall also receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus for the Prior Year if such bonus has not been paid as of the date of termination calculated in accordance with  Section IV.B.(1)(a) of the Plan  and payable when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the Termination Year). ]   
     
    [Grandfathered, Old Plan Participants]    
     
   [ If Terminated After the Transition Date ]    T  he Employee shall receive a lump sum severance payment in the gross amount of $                              , less applicable tax and benefit withholdings paid out in a lump sum as soon as practicable but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the Termination Date (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year) in accordance with  Section IV.C  of the Plan.  
     
  A-1    

[If Terminated Prior to the Transition Date]     The Employee shall receive Severance Installments in the gross amount of $                              , less applicable tax and benefit withholdings paid out over                  months (in substantially equal weekly, biweekly, or monthly installments) in accordance with  Section IV.C  of the Plan, and Section IV.B of the Old Plan, and the Company s normal payroll practices.  The Severance Period (as defined in the Old Plan) shall end on                                         , 201     (the   Severance End Date  ).  Solely for purposes of the AIG Retirement Plan and any life insurance benefits provided pursuant to  Section IV.F  of the Plan and Section IV.F. of the Old Plan, only that portion ($                    ) of the Severance Installments that is equal to the Employee s regular salary installments at the time of the Termination Date shall be treated as  salary  (the remainder, $                       shall be treated as non-salary).  
     
    [Regardless of whether Termination occurs before or after Transition Date]    
     
    [ If Participant is Grade 27+: If dollar amount of severance is greater under new ESP formula than under old ESP formula     The Employee shall also receive a New Plan Payment, if any, in accordance with  Section IV.C . of the Plan in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Termination Date but in no event later than (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15th of the Termination Year).]  [  If terminated after March 31      st          The Employee shall also receive a prorated annual short-term incentive bonus for the Termination Year calculated in accordance with  Section IV.B(1)(b)  of the Plan and payable when such incentives are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the Termination Year).] [  If annual short-term bonus for prior year has not been paid as of the date of termination   The Employee shall also receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus for the Prior Year calculated in accordance with Section IV.B. (1)(a) of the Plan and payable when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of Termination Year.] ]   
     
  The Employee shall also be paid accrued wages, reimbursed expenses, and                  days of accrued, unused paid time off ( PTO ) as of the Termination Date.  The Employee shall not accrue any PTO after the Termination Date.  
     
   III.                                      Other Benefits   
     
  Nothing in this Agreement modifies or affects any of the terms of any benefit plans or programs (defined as medical, life, pension and 401(k) plans or programs and including, without limitation, the Company s right to alter the terms of such plans or programs).  No further deductions or employer matching contributions shall be made on behalf of the Employee to the Incentive Savings Plan (  ISP  ) as of the last day of the pay period in which the Termination Date occurs.  
     
  The Employee shall no longer participate or be eligible for coverage under the Short-Term and Long-Term Disability programs, and the ISP.  After the Termination Date, the Employee may decide, under the ISP, whether to elect a rollover or distribution of the Employee s account balance or to keep the account balance in the ISP.  [To the extent the Employee has amounts that remain deferred under the Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan (  SISP  ) or the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (  EDCP  ) as of the Termination Date, a distribution because of termination of employment of the Employee s account balance under the SISP and EDCP will be paid after Termination Date pursuant to the terms of the SISP and EDCP. ] The Employee shall not accrue vacation after the Termination Date.  
     
  A-2    

[At all times, for Newly Eligible Non-Grandfathered Participants, and after the Transition Date, for all Participants]    
     
   [   As set forth in  Section IV.D  of the Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to continued health insurance coverage under COBRA for a period in accordance with the requirements under COBRA unless the Employee is or becomes ineligible under the provisions of COBRA for continuing coverage.  The Employee shall be solely responsible for paying the full cost of the monthly premiums for COBRA coverage.  In addition, the Employee shall be entitled to one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining the Employee s eligibility to participate in any Company Retiree Medical program and, if eligible, may choose to participate in such Company Retiree Medical program as of the Termination Date at the applicable rate or pay for COBRA coverage.  If the Employee chooses to pay for COBRA coverage and retains such coverage for the full COBRA period, the Employee may participate in the Company Retiree Medical program following the COBRA period.  The Employee shall also be entitled to a Supplemental Health   Life Payment of $40,000 which may, among other things, be payable towards COBRA and life insurance coverage after the Termination Date.  
     
  As set forth in  Section IV.E  of the Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining vesting and eligibility for retirement (including early retirement) under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans.  Any payments under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans shall commence at the time specified in the applicable plan, determined as if  Qualified Plan Retirement Income  (as defined in the applicable plan) began to be paid immediately following the Termination Date.  
     
  Except as set forth in this Agreement and Sections IV.D and E of the Plan there are no other payments or benefits due to the Employee from the Company.  The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company has made no representations to the Employee as to the applicability of Code section 409A to any of the payments or benefits provided to the Employee pursuant to the Plan or this Agreement.] ]   
     
    [For Grandfathered Participants Prior to the Transition Date]    
     
   [   In accordance with Section IV.F. of the Plan and as set forth in Section IV.C. of the Old Plan, the Employee s Severance Period shall be treated as continued employment for the purpose of outstanding Senior Partners Units (  SPUs  ) that are earned but unvested under the Senior Partners Plan, and options, if any, in each case that would otherwise have vested or become exercisable during the Severance Period had the Employee s employment not terminated.  
     
   [   In accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan, and as set forth in Section IV.D of the Old Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to participate during the Severance Period in the applicable Company-provided health plans for active employees in which the Employee participated prior to termination by paying on an after-tax basis the applicable employee contribution charged to active employees receiving similar coverage.  If the Employee participates in such plan, the actuarial cost of such coverage in excess of the applicable employee contribution paid by the Employee, as determined by the Company, shall be imputed as taxable income to the Employee.  The Employee agrees that the Employee shall provide promptly to the Claims Administrator or his or her designee, as applicable, without request, all information known to the Employee that may be applicable to, and all other  
     
  A-3    

information the Company may reasonably request for purposes of, determining the Employee s eligibility for continuing active employee health coverage.  
     
  In addition, in accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan and as set forth in Section IV.D of the Old Plan, the Severance Period shall be treated as a period of employment service (in connection with both the age and service requirements) for purposes of determining the Employee s eligibility to participate in, and to calculate the amount of the Company contribution towards, any Company retiree health plan.  For these purposes, the Employee s deemed period of employment service shall end as of the last day of the Severance Period.  If the Employee would not have satisfied the eligibility requirements to participate in any Company retiree health plan but for the treatment of the Severance Period as a period of employment service, the actuarial cost of such retiree health coverage in excess of any contribution paid by the Employee, as determined by the Company, shall be imputed as income for all periods in which such retiree health coverage is provided. ]   
     
  In accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan, and as set forth in Section IV.E of the Old Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to additional service credit and credit for additional age, in each case in an amount equal to the length of the Severance Period, for purposes of calculating the Employee s benefit amounts, and determining vesting and eligibility for retirement (including early retirement), under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans.  For the avoidance of doubt, Severance Installments shall not be included in the calculation of any of the Employee s benefits under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans.  Any payments under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans shall commence at the time specified in the applicable plan, determined as if  Qualified Plan Retirement Income  (as defined in the applicable plan) began to be paid immediately following the Termination Date.  
     
  In accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan, and as set forth in Section IV.F of the Old Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to participate during the Severance Period in the group life insurance benefits generally available to active employees of the Company.  The Employee shall be required to pay the costs of such coverage on the same basis as prior to the date of termination.  Any portion of the premium paid by the Company shall be imputed as taxable income to the Employee.  
     
  The Employee will continue to participate in and accrue benefits in the AIG Retirement Plan through the Severance End Date.  The AIG Retirement Plan deems an Employee on severance payroll continuation to be a participant in the Plan.  If the Employee is vested and has the age and service to commence a benefit, benefits under the AIG Retirement Plan may commence after the last day on payroll. ]   
     
  Except as set forth in this Agreement and  Sections IV.C  through  F  of the Old Plan, and Section IV.F of the Plan there are no other payments or benefits due to the Employee from the Company.  The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company has made no representations to the Employee as to the applicability of Code section 409A to any of the payments or benefits provided to the Employee pursuant to the Plan or this Agreement.]  
     
   IV.                                       Release of Claims   
     
  In consideration of the payments and benefits described in  Section IV  of the Plan and Section II and II of this Agreement, to which the Employee agrees the Employee is not entitled until and unless the Employee executes this Agreement, the Employee, for and on behalf of the Employee and the Employee s heirs and assigns, subject to the following two  
     
  A-4    

sentences hereof, agrees to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and hereby waives and releases any common law, statutory or other complaints, claims, charges or causes of action of any kind whatsoever, both known and unknown, in law or in equity, which the Employee ever had, now has or may have against AIG and its shareholders (other than C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. and Starr International Company, Inc.), successors, assigns, directors, officers, partners, members, employees, agents or the Plan (collectively, the   Releasees  ), including, without limitation, any complaint, charge or cause of action arising under federal, state or local laws pertaining to employment, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (  ADEA ,  a law which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age), the National Labor Relations Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, all as amended; and all other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations.  By signing this Agreement, the Employee acknowledges that the Employee intends to waive and release any rights known or unknown that the Employee may have against the Releasees under these and any other laws;  provided    that  the Employee does not waive or release claims with respect to the right to enforce the Employee s rights under this Agreement or with respect to any rights to indemnification under the Company s Charter and by-laws  [or other document if not an AIG employee or officer]  (the  Unreleased Claims ).  In addition, the Employee waives any claim to reinstatement or re-employment with AIG, the Employee shall not seek or accept employment with AIG after the Termination Date and the Employee agrees not to bring any claim based upon the failure or refusal of AIG to employ the Employee hereafter.  
     
   V.                                            Proceedings   
     
  The Employee acknowledges that the Employee has not filed any complaint, charge, claim or proceeding, except with respect to an Unreleased Claim, if any, against any of the Releasees before any local, state or federal agency, court or other body (each individually a  Proceeding ).  The Employee represents that the Employee is not aware of any basis on which such a Proceeding could reasonably be instituted.  By signing this Agreement the Employee:  
     
  (a)  Acknowledges that the Employee shall not initiate or cause to be initiated on his behalf any Proceeding and shall not participate in any Proceeding, in each case, except as required by law;  
     
  (b)  Waives any right he may have to benefit in any manner from any relief (whether monetary or otherwise) arising out of any Proceeding, including any Proceeding conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ( EEOC  and  
     
  (c)  Acknowledges that the Employee shall be limiting the availability of certain remedies that the Employee may have against AIG and limiting also the Employee s ability to pursue certain claims against the Releasees.  
     
  Notwithstanding the above, nothing in  Section V  of this Agreement shall prevent the Employee from:  
     
  (x)  Initiating or causing to be initiated on his or her behalf any complaint, charge, claim or proceeding against the Company before any local, state or federal agency, court or other body challenging the validity of the waiver of his or her claims under the ADEA contained in  Section IV  of this Agreement (but no other portion of such waiver), or  
     
  A-5    

(y)  Initiating or participating in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the EEOC.  
     
   VI.                                       Time to Consider   
     
  The payments and benefits payable to the Employee under this Agreement include consideration provided to the Employee over and above anything of value to which the Employee already is entitled.  The Employee acknowledges that the Employee has been advised that the Employee has 21 days from the date of the Employee s receipt of this Agreement to consider all the provisions of this Agreement.  
     
  THE EMPLOYEE FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE EMPLOYEE HAS READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY, HAS BEEN ADVISED BY THE COMPANY TO, CONSULT AN ATTORNEY, AND FULLY UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING BELOW THE EMPLOYEE IS GIVING UP CERTAIN RIGHTS WHICH THE EMPLOYEE MAY HAVE TO SUE OR ASSERT A CLAIM AGAINST ANY OF THE RELEASEES, AS DESCRIBED IN SECTION IV OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER PROVISIONS HEREOF. THE EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE EMPLOYEE HAS NOT BEEN FORCED OR PRESSURED IN ANY MANNER WHATSOEVER TO SIGN THIS AGREEMENT, AND THE EMPLOYEE AGREES TO ALL OF ITS TERMS VOLUNTARILY.  
     
   VII.                                  Revocation   
     
  The Employee hereby acknowledges and understands that the Employee shall have seven days from the date of the Employee s execution of this Agreement to revoke this Agreement (including, without limitation, any and all claims arising under the ADEA) by providing written notice of revocation delivered to the General Counsel of the Company no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh day after the Employee has signed the Agreement.  Neither the Company nor any other person is obligated to provide any benefits to the Employee pursuant to  Section IV  of the Plan until eight days have passed since the Employee s signing of this Agreement without the Employee having revoked this Agreement.  If the Employee revokes this Agreement pursuant to this Section, the Employee shall be deemed not to have accepted the terms of this Agreement, and no action shall be required of AIG under any section of this Agreement.  
     
   VIII.                             No Admission   
     
  This Agreement does not constitute an admission of liability or wrongdoing of any kind by the Employee or AIG.  
     
   IX.                                      Restrictive Covenants   
     
   A.                    Non-Solicitation/Non-Competition   
     
  The Employee acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the businesses of AIG and accordingly agrees as follows:  
     
  1.  During the period commencing on the Employee s Termination Date and ending on the one-year anniversary of such date (the   Restricted Period  ), the Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, without AIG s written consent, hire, solicit or encourage to cease to work with AIG or any employee, consultant or agent of AIG.  
     
  A-6    

2.  During the period commencing on the Employee s Termination Date and ending on the six-month anniversary of such date, the Employee shall not, directly or indirectly:  
     
  (a)  Engage in any   Competitive Business   (defined below) for the Employee s own account;  
     
  (b)  Enter the employ of, or render any services to, any person engaged in any Competitive Business;  
     
  (c)  Acquire a financial interest in, or otherwise become actively involved with, any person engaged in any Competitive Business, directly or indirectly, as an individual, partner, shareholder, officer, director, principal, agent, trustee or consultant; or  
     
  (d)  Interfere with business relationships between AIG and customers or suppliers of, or consultants to AIG.  
     
  3. For purposes of this Section IX, a  Competitive Business  means, as of any date, including during the Restricted Period, any person or entity (including any joint venture, partnership, firm, corporation or limited liability company) that engages in or proposes to engage in the following activities in any geographical area in which AIG does such business:  
     
  (a)  The property and casualty insurance business, including commercial insurance, business insurance, personal insurance and specialty insurance;  
     
  (b)  The life and accident and health insurance business;  
     
  (c)  The underwriting, reinsurance, marketing or sale of (y) any form of insurance of any kind that AIG as of such date does, or proposes to, underwrite, reinsure, market or sell (any such form of insurance, an  AIG Insurance Product ), or (z) any other form of insurance that is marketed or sold in competition with any AIG Insurance Product;  
     
  (d)  The investment and financial services business, including retirement services and mutual funds services; or  
     
  (e)  Any other business that as of such date is a direct and material competitor of one of AIG s businesses.  
     
  4.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Employee may directly or indirectly, own, solely as an investment, securities of any person engaged in the business of AIG which are publicly traded on a national or regional stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market if the Employee (a) is not a controlling person of, or a member of a group which controls, such person and (b) does not, directly or indirectly, own one percent or more of any class of securities of such person.  
     
  5.  The Employee understands that the provisions of this  Section IX.A  may limit the Employee s ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of AIG but the Employee nevertheless agrees and hereby acknowledges that:  
     
  (a)  Such provisions do not impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interests of AIG;  
     
  A-7    

(b)  Such provisions contain reasonable limitations as to time and scope of activity to be restrained;  
     
  (c)  Such provisions are not harmful to the general public; and  
     
  (d)  Such provisions are not unduly burdensome to the Employee.  In consideration of the foregoing and in light of the Employee s education, skills and abilities, the Employee agrees that he shall not assert that, and it should not be considered that, any provisions of  Section IX.A  otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable.  
     
  6.  It is expressly understood and agreed that, although the Employee and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this  Section IX.A  to be reasonable, if a judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this  Section IX.A  or elsewhere in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against the Employee, the provisions of the Agreement shall not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.  Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.  
     
   B.                    Nondisparagement   
     
  The Employee agrees (whether during or after the Employee s employment with AIG) not to issue, circulate, publish or utter any false or disparaging statements, remarks or rumors about AIG or the officers, directors or managers of AIG other than to the extent reasonably necessary in order to (a) assert a bona fide claim against AIG arising out of the Employee s employment with AIG, or (b) respond in a truthful and appropriate manner to any legal process or give truthful and appropriate testimony in a legal or regulatory proceeding.  
     
   C.                    Code of Conduct   
     
  The Employee agrees to abide by all of the terms of the Company s Code of Conduct or the Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that continue to apply after termination of employment.  
     
   D.                    Confidentiality/Company Property   
     
  The Employee acknowledges that the disclosure of this Agreement or any of the terms hereof could prejudice AIG and would be detrimental to AIG s continuing relationship with its employees.  Accordingly, the Employee agrees not to discuss or divulge either the existence or contents of this Agreement to anyone other than the Employee s immediate family, attorneys or tax advisors, and further agrees to use the Employee s best efforts to ensure that none of those individuals will reveal its existence or contents to anyone else.  The Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of AIG, use, divulge, disclose or make accessible to any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity, any  Confidential Information  (as defined below), or any  Personal Information  (as defined below);  provided  that the Employee may disclose Confidential Information, Personal Information or information about the existence or  
     
  A-8    

content of this Agreement when required to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction, by any governmental agency having supervisory authority over the business of AIG, as the case may be, or by any administrative body or legislative body (including a committee thereof) with jurisdiction to order the Employee to divulge, disclose or make accessible such information;  provided ,  further ,  that  in the event that the Employee is ordered by a court or other government agency to disclose any Confidential Information or Personal Information, the Employee shall:  
     
  (a) Promptly notify AIG of such order;  
     
  (b)  At the written request of AIG, diligently contest such order at the sole expense of AIG; and  
     
  (c)  At the written request of AIG, seek to obtain, at the sole expense of AIG, such confidential treatment as may be available under applicable laws for any information disclosed under such order.  
     
  Upon the Termination Date the Employee shall return AIG property, including, without limitation, files, records, disks and any media containing Confidential Information or Personal Information. For purposes of this  Section IX.D :  
     
    Confidential Information   shall mean information concerning the financial data, strategic business plans, product development (or other proprietary product data), customer lists, marketing plans and other, proprietary and confidential information relating to the business of AIG or customers, that, in any case, is not otherwise available to the public (other than by the Employee s breach of the terms hereof).  
     
    Personal Information   shall mean any information concerning the personal, social or business activities of the officers or directors of the Company.  
     
   E.                    Developments   
     
  Developments shall be the sole and exclusive property of AIG. The Employee agrees to, and hereby does, assign to AIG, without any further consideration, all of the Employee s right, title and interest throughout the world in and to all Developments. The Employee agrees that all such Developments that are copyrightable may constitute works made for hire under the copyright laws of the United States and, as such, acknowledges that AIG is the author of such Developments and owns all of the rights comprised in the copyright of such Developments.  The Employee hereby assigns to AIG without any further consideration all of the rights comprised in the copyright and other proprietary rights the Employee may have in any such Development to the extent that it might not be considered a work made for hire. The Employee shall make and maintain adequate and current written records of all Developments and shall disclose all Developments promptly, fully and in writing to the Company promptly after development of the same, and at any time upon request.  
     
    Developments   shall mean all discoveries, inventions, ideas, technology, formulas, designs, software, programs, algorithms, products, systems, applications, processes, procedures, methods and improvements and enhancements conceived, developed or otherwise made or created or produced by the Employee alone or with others, and in any way relating to the business or any proposed business of AIG of which the Employee has been made aware, or the products or services of AIG of which the Employee has been  
     
  A-9    

made aware, whether or not subject to patent, copyright or other protection and whether or not reduced to tangible form, at any time during the Employee s employment with AIG.  
     
   F.                     Cooperation   
     
  The Employee agrees (whether during or after the Employee s employment with AIG) to cooperate:  
     
  (a) With AIG in connection with any litigation or regulatory matters in which the Employee may have relevant knowledge or information, and  
     
  (b) With all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding pertaining to AIG.  
     
  This cooperation shall include, without limitation, the following:  
     
  (x) To meet and confer, at a time mutually convenient to the Employee and AIG, with AIG s designated in-house or outside attorneys for trial preparation purposes, including answering questions, explaining factual situations, preparing to testify, or appearing for deposition;  
     
  (y) To appear for trial and give truthful trial testimony without the need to serve a subpoena for such appearance and testimony; and  
     
  (z) To give truthful sworn statements to AIG s attorneys upon their request and, for purposes of any deposition or trial testimony, to adopt AIG s attorneys as the Employee s own ( provided  that there is no conflict of interest that would disqualify the attorneys from representing the Employee), and to accept their record instructions at deposition.  
     
  The Company agrees to reimburse the Employee for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred by the Employee in connection with the cooperation set forth in this paragraph.  
     
   X.                                           Enforcement and Clawback   
     
  If (a) at any time the Employee breaches  Section V  of this Agreement, (b) within one (1) year of the expiration of any restrictive covenant described in  Sections IX.A ,  B  or  D  of this Agreement, AIG determines that the Employee materially breached such restrictive covenant or (c) within one year of the last payment date for any Severance benefit due under the terms of the Plan, AIG determines that grounds existed, on or prior to the Termination Date, including prior to the Effective Date of the Plan, for AIG to terminate the Employee s employment for Cause, then: (x) no further payments or benefits shall be due to the Employee under this Agreement and/or the Plan; and (y) the Employee shall be obligated to repay to AIG, immediately and in a cash lump sum, the amount of any Severance benefits (other than any amounts received by the Employee under  Section IV.D    through F  of the Plan) previously received by the Employee under this Agreement and/or the Plan (which shall, for the avoidance of doubt, be calculated on a pre-tax basis);  provided  that the Employee shall in all events be entitled to receive accrued wages and expense reimbursement and accrued but unused vacation pay as set forth in  Section IV.A  of the Plan.  
     
  A-10    

The Employee acknowledges and agrees that AIG s remedies at law for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of  Sections IX.A ,  B ,  D  and  E  of this Agreement would be inadequate, and, in recognition of this fact, the Employee agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any remedies at law, AIG, without posting any bond, shall be entitled to obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction or any other equitable remedy which may then be available.  In addition, AIG shall be entitled to immediately cease paying any amounts remaining due or providing any benefits to the Employee pursuant to  Section IV  of the Plan upon a determination by the  Plan Administrator  (as defined in the Plan) that the Employee has violated any provision of  Section IX  of this Agreement, subject to payment of all such amounts upon a final determination, by a court of competent jurisdiction, that the Employee had not violated  Section IX  of this Agreement.  
     
   XI.                                      General Provisions   
     
   A.                    No Waiver; Severability   
     
  A failure of the Company or any of the Releasees to insist on strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of such provision or any other provision hereof.  If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be so broad as to be unenforceable, such provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable, and in the event that any provision is determined to be entirely unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed severable, such that all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain valid and binding upon the Employee and the Releasees.  
     
   B.                    Governing Law   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE WHOLLY PERFORMED WITHIN THAT STATE, WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS OR THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION WHICH WOULD CAUSE THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THAT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  THE EMPLOYEE CONSENTS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE FEDERAL AND STATE COURTS IN NEW YORK.  
     
   C.                    Compensation Requirements; Superseding Authority   
     
  For applicable terminations prior to December 14, 2012 only: Payments under this Agreement and/or the Plan shall be subject to applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and applicable requirements of agreements between the Company and the U.S. government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, as the same are in effect from time to time.  The Employee may receive payments under this Agreement and/or the Plan only to the extent consistent with those regulations and requirements.  
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board reserves the authority to cancel or reduce Severance or other benefits provided under this Agreement and/or the Plan or restructure such Severance or other benefits (including, without limitation, by requiring any cash payment to be delivered in whole or in part in any other property, adding a condition to or deferring the vesting or delivery of any payment and/or restricting the transferability of any stock or other property delivered in satisfaction of the  
     
  A-11    

Severance or other benefits), in each case, if the Board determines, in its reasonable discretion, that the Company faces a significant threat to its financial viability due to extraordinary adverse circumstances;  provided  that, in no event shall such authority extend to any action that would: (1) if any portion of the Severance or benefits is determined by the Company to be an equity-classified award under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 718, cancel, reduce or defer the vesting of such portion of the Severance or other benefits or delay the transferability of any stock or other property delivered in satisfaction of such portion for more than an additional five years; (2) violate any applicable law (including any applicable non-US law); or (3) cause the Severance or other benefits to cease to comply with Code section 409A.  
     
   D.                    Entire Agreement/Counterparts   
     
  This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement between the Company and the Employee with regard to all matters herein.  There are no other agreements, conditions, or representations, oral or written, express or implied, with regard thereto.  This Agreement may be amended only in writing, signed by the parties hereto.  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  
     
   E.                    Notice   
     
  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered:  (a) personally; (b) by overnight courier service; (c) by facsimile transmission; or (d) by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses, as set forth below, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith;  provided  that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.  Notices shall be deemed given as follows: (x) notices sent by personal delivery or overnight courier shall be deemed given when delivered; (y) notices sent by facsimile transmission shall be deemed given upon the sender s receipt of confirmation of complete transmission; and (z) notices sent by United States registered mail shall be deemed given two days after the date of deposit in the United States mail.  
     
  If to the Employee, to the address as shall most currently appear on the records of the Company.  
     
  If to the Company, to:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  80 Pine Street  
  New York, NY 10005   
  Fax: 212-770-1584  
  Attn: General Counsel  
     
  A-12    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement.  

EMPLOYEE       

By:       

Name:       
 
  Date:       

Title:       

AMERICAN   INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       

Name:       
 
  Date:       

Title:       

A-13    

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.66>
 3
 a2212976zex-10_66.htm
 EX-10.66

Exhibit 10.66   

May 9, 2012  
     
  Jeffrey J. Hurd, Esq.  
  Senior Vice President    
  Human Resources and Communications  
  American International Group, Inc.  
  180 Maiden Lane  
  22  nd   Floor  
  New York, NY 10038-4925  

Re:                                     Proposed Compensation Structures for Certain Executive Officers and Most Highly Compensated Employees ( Covered Employees 26   100 )    
     
  Dear Mr. Hurd:  
     
  Pursuant to the Department of the Treasury s Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance (the  Rule ),(1) the Office of the Special Master has completed its review of the 2012 compensation submission by American International Group, Inc. ( AIG  or the  Company ), on behalf of employees who are either executive officers of AIG or one of AIG s 100 most highly compensated employees, excluding those employees subject to Section 30.10 of the Rule ( Covered Employees 26   100  or  Covered Employees ).  
     
  The Office of the Special Master s compensation reviews for Covered Employees 26   100 differ from the reviews of AIG s  top 25  employees, which addressed individual  amounts payable  to those employees, 31 C.F.R.   30.16(a)(3)(i). For Covered Employees 26   100, the Rule does not require individual payment determinations; instead, the Office of the Special Master must determine only whether the proposed compensation structures  will or may result in payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP, or are otherwise contrary to the public interest  (as applied to Covered Employees 26   100 of AIG, the  public interest standard ).  Id .   30.16(a)(3)(ii).  
     
  On December 11, 2009, April 16, 2010, and April 8, 2011, the Office of the Special Master issued determinations relating to compensation structures for AIG s 2009, 2010, and 2011 Covered Employees 26   100, respectively (the  Prior Determinations ). The Prior Determinations were informed by a number of considerations, including each of the six principles (the  principles ) articulated in the Rule: avoid incentives to take excessive risk, maximize the company s ability to repay the taxpayer, appropriately allocate the components of compensation, use performance-based compensation, employ pay structures and amounts that are consistent with those at comparable entities, and base pay on the employee s contribution to the value of the TARP recipient enterprise.  Id .   30.16(b)(1). The Office of the Special Master has concluded that these principles must continue to apply in 2012.  
     
  In order to apply the principles and ensure that the compensation structures for AIG s Covered Employees 26-100 satisfy the public interest standard, the Office of the Special Master has developed  

(1) The Interim Final Rule and all determination letters issued by the Office of the Special Master are available at www.financialstability.gov (click on  Executive Compensation ).  
     
  1    

certain terms and conditions relating to the components and the allocation of compensation for Covered Employees that must be satisfied. These terms and conditions emphasize allocating significant portions of compensation to long-term structures tied to AIG s overall value, using structures that are performance-based and easily understood by shareholders, and protecting the Company s ability to remain a competitive enterprise and ultimately repay the taxpayers.  
     
  The Office of the Special Master has determined that compensation structures that satisfy the terms and conditions described in   Annex A   are consistent with the public interest standard. AIG s proposed compensation structures, with minor modifications, are consistent with these terms and conditions, which generally require that:  
     
                         Compensation may be provided in three primary components: cash salary, stock salary, and incentive compensation. The amounts and conditions of the components for each Covered Employee will be determined by AIG s compensation committee.  
     
                         A significant portion of compensation must be performance-based. Fixed compensation must be limited to 40% of total direct compensation payable and consist only of cash salaries and stock salaries at levels sufficient to attract and retain employees and provide a reasonable level of liquidity. Cash salaries should not exceed $500,000 per year, except in exceptional cases for good cause shown, as certified by the Company s independent compensation committee.  
     
                         Compensation must emphasize long-term results. Payment and transferability of at least 50% of any incentive payment to a Covered Employee must be deferred for at least three years. In addition, at least 50% of all incentives must be in the form of equity in the Company. Finally, at least 50% of all cash incentive awards must be deferred for a minimum period of one year.  
     
                         Incentive payments may be made if and only if the payments are appropriate in light of AIG s overall circumstances and the particular Covered Employee achieves objective performance metrics. The total value of all incentive compensation payments cannot exceed a specified percentage of the company s eligible earnings, to be determined by the compensation committee. Incentive payments must be subject to  clawback  if the performance assessment resulting in the compensation is later discovered to be inaccurate. (For a further discussion of incentive compensation, see the third bullet in Item 1 of   Annex A  .)  
     
  In addition, compensation structures for Covered Employees 26   100 continue to be subject to the additional limitations on perquisites, severance benefits, hedging transactions, tax  gross-ups  and supplemental executive retirement plans described in   Annex A  .  
     
  The Office of the Special Master s determinations are limited to the compensation structures described in   Annex A  , and shall not be relied upon with respect to any other employee. The determinations have relied upon, and are qualified in their entirety by, the accuracy of the materials submitted by AIG to the Office of the Special Master, and the absence of any material misstatement or omission in such materials. Pursuant to the Rule, AIG may, within 30 days of the date hereof, request in  
     
  2    

writing that the Office of the Special Master reconsider the determinations set forth in   Annex     A   .  If the Company does not request reconsideration within 30 days, these initial determinations will be treated as final determinations.   I d.    30.16(c)(1).  

Very   truly yours,           

/s/   Patricia Geoghegan           

Patricia   Geoghegan           

Office   of the Special Master           

for   TARP Executive Compensation           

Enclosures       

cc:       
 
  Mitchell   D. Schultz       

Jacqueline   Aguanno       

Marc   R. Trevino, Esq.       

3    

ANNEX A   
   APPROVED 2012 COMPENSATION STRUCTURES   
     
  This Annex sets forth terms and conditions for the 2012 compensation structures for AIG s 2012 Covered Employees 26   100. For the avoidance of doubt, if the compensation structure for a Covered Employee fits within the $500,000  safe harbor  exemption set forth in Section 30.16(a)(3)(ii) of the Rule, the Office of the Special Master s approval is not required for that employee s compensation structure and the terms and conditions specified below do not apply. Capitalized terms used in this Annex have the meaning given to them in the preceding letter. To the extent that AIG s proposed structures do not satisfy the principles and these terms and conditions, AIG must make such modifications as are necessary to comply with such principles and terms and conditions.  
     
   1.     Primary Components of Compensation   
     
                           Cash salary    . Covered Employees should not receive cash salaries in excess of $500,000, other than in exceptional circumstances for good cause shown. Any such exceptions must be individually certified to the Office of the Special Master by AIG s compensation committee, which is composed solely of independent directors.  
     
                            Stock salary    . Stock salary must be determined as a dollar amount through the date salary is earned, be accrued at the same time or times as the salary would otherwise be paid in cash, and vest immediately upon grant, with the number of shares or units based on the fair market value on the date of grant. Whether a grant or payment that is labeled stock salary is salary or a bonus for purposes of the Rule is determined based on all the facts and circumstances.  
     
                           Incentive compensation    . Under any incentive compensation structure, payments to a Covered Employee must be conditioned upon achievement of objective performance criteria (other than continued service), with such achievement to be assessed and certified by the compensation committee. Performance criteria must be developed by the compensation committee and may be reviewed by the Office of the Special Master. The aggregate amount of incentives paid to Covered Employees for performance achieved only in 2012 may not exceed a specified percentage of AIG s eligible earnings. The amount and calculation of such eligible earnings will be determined by the compensation committee and may be reviewed by the Office of the Special Master.  
     
   2.         Allocation Rules   
     
                           Application of allocation rules    . The allocation rules apply to each Covered Employee s 2012  total direct compensation payable,  which is equal to the sum of the amounts potentially payable to a Covered Employee (1) in 2012 cash salary, (2) in 2012 stock salary, or (3) under 2012 incentive plans. For purposes of these determinations, 2012 incentive plans are plans for which incentives are earned (a) solely with respect to 2012, and (b) under a multi-year incentive plan established in 2012. Compliance with the allocation rules is to be assessed based on a Covered Employee s total direct compensation payable as designed and established in 2012, assuming that the target level of achievement under each incentive plan is reached.  
     
                           Cash Salary and Stock Salary allocation    . Compensation payable as cash salary and stock salary may constitute no more than 40% of the total direct compensation payable to each Covered Employee in 2012.  
     
                           Incentive allocation    . A minimum of 60% of the total direct compensation payable to each Covered Employee in 2012 must be allocated to performance-based incentive awards assuming  
     
  A1    

that the target level of achievement is reached. No payment or equity award under a 2012 incentive plan may be made prior to the conclusion of the applicable performance period.  
     
                           Long-term allocation.     Payment and transferability of least 50% of all performance-based incentive awards must be deferred for at least a three-year period. Pro rata release of such amounts is permitted, allowing two-thirds of such amount to become payable and transferable not earlier than the second anniversary of the date of the award and the last third of such amount to become payable and transferable on the third anniversary of the award. In addition, at least 50% of all performance-based incentive awards payable in the form of cash may not be paid prior to the first anniversary of grant.  
     
                           Equity allocation.     At least 50% of all performance-based incentive awards must be delivered in the form of equity in the Company.  
     
                           Satisfying incentive allocations.     The aggregate 2012 performance-based incentives actually paid or awarded to each Covered Employee must satisfy the above long-term and equity allocation requirements. If several incentive plans are in existence, this can be achieved either (1) by ensuring that the aggregate cash paid and equity awarded to a Covered Employee pursuant to each incentive plan separately satisfies the long-term and equity allocation requirements, or (2) by having one incentive compensation target package that complies with the allocation requirements and giving each Covered Employee a  scorecard  consisting of multiple goals; achievement against those goals would be evaluated resulting in an overall score, which would determine the percentage of the target that the Covered Employee had earned.  
     
   3.         Additional Terms and Conditions   
     
                           Stock compensation generally    . For purposes of these determinations,  stock  compensation includes AIG common stock or common stock units.(2) Notwithstanding the transferability restrictions otherwise applicable to any stock compensation, (1) an amount of stock sufficient to cover an employee s tax withholding obligations may become immediately transferable to the extent necessary to satisfy the employee s obligations, and (2) to the extent permitted by the Rule, stock may become immediately transferable upon an employee s death or separation from service resulting from disability, as defined in the Company s broad-based long-term disability plan.  
     
                           Clawbacks and hedging    . Any incentive payment must be subject to  clawback  if the payment or the amount thereof was based on materially inaccurate financial statements (which term includes, but is not limited to, statements of earnings, revenues, or gains) or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria, or if the Covered Employee is terminated due to misconduct that occurred during the period the incentive was earned. In addition, the compensation structure for each Covered Employee must prohibit the employee from engaging in any hedging, derivative or similar transaction with respect to Company stock that would undermine the long-term performance incentives created by the compensation structures set forth in this Annex.  
     
                           Employees entering the  top 25     . If AIG reasonably concludes that a Covered Employee may become one of the  top 25  employees in 2013, the compensation structure for that Covered Employee will be subject to the following additional terms and conditions to assure compliance with pertinent statutory and regulatory requirements. Any payment under a 2009, 2010, 2011, or  

(2) Consistent with 2011, AIG has proposed the use of AIG common stock or common stock units for 2012 stock compensation, and the Office of the Special Master has approved this request.  
     
  A2    

2012 incentive plan that would be payable to the Covered Employee in cash in the first quarter of 2013 consistent with the terms of this Annex, or any previous Annex relating to 2009, 2010, or 2011, may be paid on or before December 31, 2012. In addition, notwithstanding the other requirements of the related Annex, any incentive compensation for performance in 2009, 2010, 2011, or 2012 may be paid to the Covered Employee in the form of AIG common stock (but not stock units) that vests and is delivered on or before December 31, 2012, provided that the transferability of such stock shall be consistent with the structural principles of the related Annex. Finally, notwithstanding the other requirements of this Annex, up to one-third of the Covered Employee s  annual compensation  for 2012 may be paid in the form of  long-term restricted stock,  as those terms are defined in the Rule. For the avoidance of doubt, all such payments continue to be subject to the applicable provisions in the related Annex regarding clawbacks and hedging.  
     
                           Severance    . No 2012 compensation structure may establish the right to a  golden parachute  payment (as defined in the Rule) or permit an increase in the amount of such a payment under an already-existing arrangement.  
     
   4.         Other Components of Compensation   
     
                           Tax gross-ups    . AIG is prohibited from providing (formally or informally) tax gross-ups to any of the Covered Employees, in the same manner as the gross-up prohibition applies to  top 25  employees under the Rule.  
     
                           Other compensation and perquisites    . No more than $25,000 in total other compensation and perquisites, as defined by pertinent SEC regulations, may be provided to any Covered Employee, absent exceptional circumstances for good cause shown. Payments to Covered Employees under expatriate arrangements, not to exceed $350,000 per employee (excluding  tax equalization agreements  as defined in the Rule), are excluded from the limitation in the foregoing sentence.  
     
                           Supplemental executive retirement plans and non-qualified deferred compensation plans    . No amounts may be accrued under supplemental executive retirement plans, and no Company contributions may be made to other  non-qualified deferred compensation  plans, as defined by pertinent SEC regulations, for any Covered Employee for 2012. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing limitation does not (1) apply to employee-funded elective deferral arrangements, or (2) preclude continuing recognition of age and service credit for Company employees for the purpose of vesting in previously accrued benefits under any plans referred to in this paragraph.  
     
                           Qualified plans    . For the avoidance of doubt, the Office of the Special Master has determined that participation by the Covered Employees in broad-based, tax-qualified retirement and health and welfare plans is consistent with the public interest standard, and amounts contributed to or payable under such plans are not counted against the $25,000 limit on other compensation and perquisites.  
     
  A3    

</EX-10.66>

<EX-10.69>
 4
 a2212976zex-10_69.htm
 EX-10.69

Exhibit 10.69   
     
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   
     
    NON-QUALIFIED RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN   
     
   (As Amended and Restated Effective April 1, 2012)   

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Page            

ARTICLE 1       
 
  DEFINITIONS       
 
  1           

ARTICLE 2       
 
  PARTICIPATION       
 
  5           

ARTICLE 3       
 
  RETIREMENT AND OTHER BENEFITS       
 
  6           

ARTICLE 4       
 
  EXCESS RETIREMENT INCOME       
 
  8           

ARTICLE 5       
 
  VESTING       
 
  14           

ARTICLE 6       
 
  MODES OF BENEFIT PAYMENT       
 
  15           

ARTICLE 7       
 
  DEATH BENEFITS       
 
  18           

ARTICLE 8       
 
  LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY       
 
  21           

ARTICLE 9       
 
  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN       
 
  22           

ARTICLE 10       
 
  AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE   PLAN       
 
  28           

ARTICLE 11       
 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS       
 
  29           

SCHEDULE   A       

APPENDIX A       
 
  RESTORATION OF RETIREMENT INCOME   PLAN FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATING IN THE RESTATED AMERICAN GENERAL   RETIREMENT PLAN       
 
  A-1           

APPENDIX B       
 
  THE HARTFORD STEAM BOILER EXCESS   RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN       
 
  B-1           

APPENDIX C       
 
  20TH CENTURY INDUSTRIES   SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN (RESTATEMENT NO. 1)       
 
  C-1              
     
  i    

PREAMBLE  
     
  The American International Group, Inc.  Non-Qualified Retirement Income Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ) shall become effective on April 1, 2012 and shall constitute an amendment, restatement and continuation of the  American International Group, Inc. Excess Retirement Income Plan , as amended and in effect on March 31, 2012.  
     
  The purpose of the Plan is to permit certain Employees of the Employer to receive additional retirement income benefits from the Employer when benefits cannot be paid from the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan due to the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17) and, prior to April 1, 2012, 415 of the Internal Revenue Code.  
     
  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  

ARTICLE 1  
     
   DEFINITIONS   
     
  The following words and phrases as used herein shall have the following meanings, and the masculine, feminine and neuter gender shall be deemed to include the others and the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa, when appropriate, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:  
     
  1.1           Account  means the Account as defined in the Qualified Plan for a Cash Balance Participant as defined thereunder.  
     
  1.2           Affiliated Employer  means any member of the same controlled group of corporations as the Company or an Employer as determined under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.  
     
  1.3           AG Offset  means the monthly amount payable at Normal, Early, Postponed, or Disability Retirement Date, as applicable, in the form of a single life annuity under the Restoration Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan which was cashed out to the Participant from the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (sometimes referred to as the  AG SERP ) or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement (sometimes referred to as an  AG SERA ).  
     
  1.4           Average Final Compensation  means the amount determined by dividing (i) the average annual Compensation of the Participant during the three consecutive years in the last ten years of his credited service (as determined under the Qualified Plan) affording the highest such average, or during all the years of his credited service if less than three years, by (ii) twelve (12). For purposes of determining Average Final Compensation for a Participant listed on Schedule A, the Freeze Period as defined in Section 4.6 shall be disregarded for purposes of determining whether years are consecutive.  
     
  1.5           Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  
     
  1.6           Committee  means the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc. or any successor thereto.  
     
  1.7           Company  means American International Group, Inc.  
     
  1.8           Compensation  means, for amounts other than amounts determined under Section 1.15, the Participant s Compensation as determined under the Qualified Plan, excluding any sales commissions payable to an Employee for services rendered to the Company. Effective as of April 1, 2012, Compensation for purposes of determining the amount under Section 1.15 means the Participant s Compensation as determined under the Qualified Plan for purposes of determining Pay Credits (as defined in the Qualified Plan), provided that Compensation for any Plan Year shall be limited to $1,000,000 (one million dollars), adjusted annually in the same manner that the limitation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code is adjusted to reflect cost-of-living increases, pursuant to rules established by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. Compensation for any purpose under the Plan, including for periods prior to April 1, 2012, shall not include severance payments and other amounts paid after a Participant s Separation from Service.  

1.9           Designated Beneficiary  means the beneficiary designated by the Participant pursuant to rules established by the Plan Administrator. In the event that a Participant fails to designate a beneficiary under the Plan, such Participant s Designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the beneficiary with respect to such Participant s Qualified Plan pre-retirement death benefit.  
     
  1.10         Disability  means the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company or an Employer, including the Company s short-term disability program.  
     
  1.11         Early Retirement Date  means the date as of which benefits commence for a Participant eligible for a benefit under Section 3.2.  
     
  1.12         Effective Date  of this Plan means April 1, 2012. The original effective date of the Plan is July 1, 1986.  
     
  1.13         Employee  means a person who is classified as an employee on the payroll records of an Employer. Individuals not classified as employees on the payroll records of an Employer for a particular period shall not be considered Employees for such period even if a court of administrative agency subsequently determines that such individuals were common law employees of the Employer during such period.  
     
  1.14         Employer  means the Company and any other company as defined in Sections 2.06 and 8.01 of the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan.  
     
  1.15         Excess Account  means the difference between (i) and (ii) as stated below:  
     
  (a)           the Account to which the Participant would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan, if such benefit were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and if such Account were calculated using Compensation as defined herein including, where provided for a Participant pursuant to a written agreement with the Company, compensation paid after Separation from Service;  
     
  (b)           the Account payable to the Participant under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof after the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) disregarding, except as provided otherwise for a Participant pursuant to a written agreement with the Company, compensation (as defined in the Qualified Plan) paid after the Participant s Separation from Service.  
     
  1.16         Excess Normal Retirement Income  means the amount determined under Section 4.1.  
     
  1.17         Excess Opening Account Balance  means the difference between (i) the Opening Account Balance (as defined in the Qualified Plan), increased by Interest Credits applicable as of the determination date, to which the Participant would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan, if such Opening Balance, increased by Interest Credits applicable as of the determination date, were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed  
     
  2    

by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 and if such Opening Balance, increased by Interest Credits applicable as of the determination date, were calculated using Average Final Compensation as defined herein, and (ii) the Opening Balance (as defined in the Qualified Plan), increased by Interest Credits applicable as of the determination date, to which the Participant is entitled, taking into account the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415.  
     
  1.18         Executive  means any person, including an officer, employed on a regular, full-time, salaried basis by an Employer.  
     
  1.19         Frozen Accrued Benefit  means a Participant s accrued benefit under the Plan as of March 31, 2012, determined as provided under Section 4.1  
     
  1.20         Grandfathered Accrued Benefit  means the accrued benefit that would be determined under Section 4.1, taking into account all Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan), Compensation (as defined in the Qualified Plan, but excluding amounts paid after Separation from Service), and Covered Compensation until a Participant s Separation from Service or death, applying the benefit formula that applied under the Qualified Plan on March 31, 2012,  
     
  1.21         Grandfathered Transition Benefit  means the benefit provided in Section 4.2(c) for a Participant who is a Grandfathered Transition Participant as defined in the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.22         Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit  means the benefit provided in Section 4.2(b) for a Participant who is a Non-Grandfathered Transition Participant as defined in the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.23         Normal Form  means a single life annuity payable for the life of the Participant and ending with the last monthly payment made prior to the Participant s death.  
     
  1.24         Normal Retirement Date  means the Participant s Normal Retirement Date as determined under the terms of the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.25         Participant  means an Employee who has become a Participant pursuant to Article 2 of the Plan.  
     
  1.26         Plan  means the American International Group, Inc.  Non-Qualified Retirement Income Plan, as herein set forth, and as it may hereafter be amended from time to time.  
     
  1.27         Postponed Retirement Date  means the date as of which the Participant commences his Postponed Retirement Benefit after his Normal Retirement Date as determined under the terms of the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.28         Qualified Plan  means the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time.  
     
  1.29         Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity  means the benefit paid to a Participant s beneficiary under the Qualified Plan upon the Participant s death prior to his annuity commencement date.  
     
  3    

1.30         Qualified Plan Retirement Income  means the benefit paid to a Participant under the Qualified Plan and includes retirement income payable upon Normal Retirement, Early Retirement or Postponed Retirement, by reason of disability or to an Employee who terminates employment with a vested interest in his Qualified Plan retirement income.  
     
  1.31         Retirement Board  has the meaning provided under the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.32         Retirement Income  means the retirement benefits provided to Participants and their joint or contingent annuitants in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Plan and shall include the Excess Retirement Income payable pursuant to Article 4.  
     
  1.33         Separation from Service  means the Participant has terminated employment (other than by death or Disability) with the Company and each Affiliated Employer, subject to the following:  
     
  (a)           For this purpose, the employment relationship is treated as continuing intact while the individual is on military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence (such as temporary employment by the government) if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or, if longer, so long as the individual s right to reemployment with the Company or an Affiliated Employer is provided either by statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months and the individual s right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such six-month period.  
     
  (b)           The determination of whether a Participant has terminated employment shall be determined based on the facts and circumstances in accordance with the rules set forth in Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder.  
     
  1.34         Specified Employee  means a Participant who, as of the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, is a key employee of the Company or an Employer. For purposes of this Plan, a Participant is a key employee if the Participant meets the requirements of Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii), or (iii) applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the December 31st of a Plan Year. If a Participant is a key employee as of such December 31st, the Participant is treated as a key employee for purposes of this Plan for the entire 12-month period beginning on the next following April 1st.  
     
  1.35         Surviving Spouse  means a spouse to whom the Participant is lawfully married on the date of the Participant s death, for purposes of determining the individual entitled to a benefit under Article 7 with respect to a death occurring prior to April 1, 2012.  
     
  1.36         Years of Service or Fraction Thereof  means a continuous 12-month period or fraction thereof for each full month of active employment commencing on the Participant s date of hire or on the anniversary thereof.  
     
  4    

ARTICLE 2  
     
   PARTICIPATION   
     
  Effective as of April 1, 2012, Employees who are members of the Qualified Plan and whose benefits under the Qualified Plan are limited by reason of the application of the limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall become Participants in this Plan. Prior to April 1, 2012, Employees who are members of the Qualified Plan and whose benefits under the Qualified Plan are limited by reason of the application of the limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code or Section 415 of the Code shall become Participants in this Plan. A Participant who, prior to April 1, 2012, became a Participant in the Plan solely by reason of the application of the limitations imposed by Section 415 of the Code and who, on and after April 1, 2012, no longer meets the eligibility requirements of the Plan, shall not accrue a benefit under the Plan on and after April 1, 2012 until such time (if ever) that he again meets the eligibility requirements under the Plan.  
     
  Unless otherwise specified in an applicable stock or asset purchase or sales agreement between the Company and another entity, the accruals for any Participant who is an Employee or former Employee of an entity divested by or sold by the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall cease, and such individual shall not accrue additional benefits, or additional service for determining eligibility for any normal or early retirement benefit under Article 4, thereafter, unless he shall later become eligible upon rehire to participate in the Plan.  
     
  For clarity, effective April 1, 2012, an individual employed by VALIC as a Field Sales Employee, Regional Manager (including Assistant Regional Manager, Associate Regional Manager, District Manager, Branch Manager, and Unit Manager) or Client Services Specialist became eligible to participate in the Qualified Plan and therefore became eligible to participate in the Plan, subject to the additional participation requirements of this Article 2 and the Plan.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE 3  
     
   RETIREMENT AND OTHER BENEFITS   
     
  3.1          Normal Retirement, Postponed Retirement and Disability Retirement. A Participant in the Plan who has a Separation from Service on his Normal or Postponed Retirement Date shall be entitled to receive the Excess Normal or Postponed Retirement Income, as applicable, as described in Article 4. If a Participant incurs a Disability, the Participant shall be entitled to receive the Excess Disability Retirement Income described in Section 4.5.  
     
  3.2          Early Retirement. For a Separation from Service occurring on or after April 1, 2012, if a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement (other than by death or by incurring a Disability) on or after age 60 and with 5 Years of Service or Fraction Thereof or on or after age 55 with 10 or more Years of Service or Fraction Thereof (in each case referred to as  Early Retirement ), an Excess Retirement Income will be payable in accordance with Section 4.3. For a Separation from Service occurring prior to April 1, 2012, (i) if a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement (other than by death or by incurring a Disability) on or after age 60 and with 5 Years of Service or Fraction Thereof, an Excess Early Retirement Income will be payable in accordance with Section 4.3, and (ii) if a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement (other than by death or incurring a Disability), on or after age 55 with 10 or more years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan), an Excess Retirement Income will be payable in accordance with Section 4.3 unless, in its sole discretion, the Committee determines that a benefit shall not be payable to the Participant. In determining the number of years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan) and the number of Years of Service or Fraction Thereof for a Participant listed in Schedule A, for purposes of this Section 3.2, the number of years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan) and the number of Years of Service or Fraction Thereof occurring during the Freeze Period as defined in Section 4.6 shall be included.  
     
  3.3          Death. If such a Participant dies prior to the commencement of benefits such that a death benefit is payable under the terms of the Qualified Plan, a death benefit shall be payable in accordance with Section 7.1; provided, however, that, except as hereinafter provided, no death benefit is payable if the Participant dies after termination of employment prior to his Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an individual who (i) is a Participant in the Plan by reason of the merger of The Hartford Steam Boiler Excess Retirement Benefit Plan (the  HSB Excess Plan ), the Restoration of Retirement Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan (the  AG Restoration Plan ) or the 20th Century Industries Supplemental Pension Plan (the  20th Century Supplemental Plan ) into this Plan, (ii) terminates employment with a vested interest in his or her accrued benefit under the HSB Excess Plan, the AG Restoration Plan or the 20th Century Supplemental Plan, as applicable, prior to eligibility for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement under this Plan, and (iii) dies prior to the commencement of Excess Retirement Income, a death benefit shall be payable to the Participant s surviving spouse to the extent provided in the HSB Excess Plan as set forth in Appendix B, the AG Restoration Plan as set forth in Appendix A or the 20th Century Supplemental Plan as set forth in Appendix C, to the extent applicable to a Participant, with such benefit to commence within 90 days of the later of the date the Participant would have attained age 55 or the Participant s date of death.  
     
  3.4          Merger of the AG Restoration Plan. Effective as of July 1, 2005, the AG Restoration Plan was merged into this Plan. Any benefit a Participant had accrued as of the date  
     
  6    

of such merger under the AG Restoration Plan shall be payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan as set forth herein.  
     
  The AG Restoration Plan is attached as Appendix A to the Plan. Appendix A is only operational to the extent referenced in the Plan (exclusive of Appendix A) or incorporated by reference in the Plan (exclusive of Appendix A).  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing or Article 5, a Participant shall be vested in his benefit accrued under the AG Restoration Plan to the extent provided in the AG Restoration Plan as set forth in Appendix A.  
     
  3.5          Merger of the HSB Excess Plan. Effective as of January 1, 2005, the HSB Excess Plan was merged into this Plan. Any benefit a Participant had accrued as of the date of such merger under the HSB Excess Plan shall be payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan as set forth herein.  
     
  The HSB Excess Plan is attached as Appendix B to the Plan. Appendix B is only operational to the extent referenced in the Plan (exclusive of Appendix B) or incorporated by reference in the Plan (exclusive of Appendix B).  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing or Article 5, a Participant shall be vested in his benefit accrued under the HSB Excess Plan to the extent provided in the HSB Excess Plan as set forth in Appendix B.  
     
  3.6          Merger of the 20th Century Supplemental Plan. Effective as of January 1, 2008, the 20th Century Supplemental Plan was merged into this Plan. Any benefit a Participant had accrued as of the date of such merger under the 20th Century Supplemental Plan shall be payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan as set forth herein.  
     
  The 20th Century Supplemental Plan is attached as Appendix C to the Plan. Appendix C is only operational to the extent referenced in the Plan (exclusive of Appendix C) or incorporated by reference in the Plan (exclusive of Appendix C).  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing or Article 5, a Participant shall be vested in his benefit accrued under the 20th Century Supplemental Plan to the extent provided in the 20th Century Supplemental Plan as set forth in Appendix C.  
     
  3.7          Frozen Accrued Benefits for Certain Employees employed by ALICO Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries ( ALICO ). The accrued benefit (including eligibility for any early retirement subsidy) of each Participant who is an employee of ALICO as of November 1, 2010, the date the transactions described in the Stock Purchase Agreement entered into among the Company, ALICO Holdings LLC and MetLife, Inc. dated as of March 7, 2010 closed (the  Closing Date ), other than a Participant who is absent from work on such date due to a long-term disability or an unpaid medical leave of absence or leave due to a workplace injury covered by a workers  compensation policy or program incurred more than six months prior to the sale ( ALICO Employee ), shall be frozen as of the Closing Date. The liability for the frozen accrued benefit of each ALICO Employee shall be transferred to a similar nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained by MetLife, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries, effective as of the Closing Date.  
     
  7    

ARTICLE 4  
     
   EXCESS RETIREMENT INCOME   
     
  4.1          For a Participant who incurs a Separation from Service prior to April 1, 2012, subject to Section 6.3 , the Excess Normal Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant in the Normal Form shall, commencing as of his Normal Retirement Date, be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)           the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon his Normal Retirement Date to which the Participant would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan, if such benefit were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(l7) and 415 and if such Qualified Plan Retirement Income were calculated using Average Final Compensation as defined herein;  
     
  (b)           the sum of (i) the monthly amount of Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon his Normal Retirement Date to the Participant under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof after the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date) and (ii) the AG Offset, if any.  
     
  4.2          Effective April 1, 2012, subject to Section 6.3, the Excess Normal Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant in the form provided under Article 6, shall, commencing as of his Normal Retirement Date, be equal to the amount determined in (a), (b), or (c) below, as applicable.  
     
  (a)           The Excess Normal Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant (other than a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit or a Grandfathered Transition Benefit) shall be equal to the Participant s Excess Account.  
     
  (b)           The Excess Normal Retirement Income payable to a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greater of (A) or (B), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account, reduced by the AG Offset, if any, and  
     
  (B)          the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit,  
     
  (c)           The Excess Normal Retirement Income payable to a Participant eligible for a Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greatest of (A), (B), or (C), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account, reduced by the AG Offset, if any, and  
     
  (B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit, and  
     
  (C)          equals the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit.  
     
  8    

4.3          A Participant who is eligible for Early Retirement under Section 3.2 shall be entitled to the benefit determined in this Section 4.3.  
     
  (a)           For a Separation from Service prior to April 1, 2012, subject to Section 6.3, if a Participant who is eligible for Early Retirement under Section 3.2 incurs a Separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement Date (other than by death or Disability), an amount shall be payable under this Plan commencing as of such Early Retirement Date (the  Excess Early Retirement Income ). Such Excess Early Retirement Income payable in the Normal Form shall be equal to the difference between (i) and (ii) as stated below:  
     
  (i)            the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon his Early Retirement Date to which the Participant would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan, if such benefit were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 and if such Qualified Plan Retirement Income were calculated using Average Final Compensation as defined herein;  
     
  (ii)           the sum of (A) the monthly amount of Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon his Early Retirement Date to the Participant under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof after the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date) and (B) the AG Offset.  
     
  If the Participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the amounts computed under (i) and (ii) shall be the amounts that would be payable at Normal Retirement Date under those sections, but reduced by 6-2/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65.  
     
  (b)           Effective April 1, 2012, the Excess Early Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant (other than a Participant Eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit or a Grandfathered Transition Benefit) in the form provided under Article 6 shall be equal to the Excess Account.  
     
  (c)           Effective April 1, 2012, the Excess Early Retirement Income payable to a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greater of (A) or (B), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account reduced by the AG Offset, if any, and  
     
  (B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit.  
     
  (d)           Effective April 1, 2012, the Excess Early Retirement Income payable to a Participant eligible for a Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greatest of (A), (B), or (C), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account, reduced by the AG Offset, if any, and  
     
  9    

(B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit, and  
     
  (C)          equals the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit.  
     
  (e)           The Frozen Accrued Benefit and the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit shall be reduced to reflect early commencement by applying the early retirement factors set forth in the Qualified Plan.  
     
  (f)            If the Participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the Frozen Accrued Benefit and the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit shall be the amounts that would be payable at Normal Retirement Date, but reduced by 6-2/3% for each of the first 5 years (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65 and 3-1/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 60.  
     
  (g)           For a Participant listed on Schedule A whose benefit is determined under Section 4.6(a), for purposes of determining what reduction factors apply under this Section 4.3, the number of years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan) occurring during the Freeze Period shall be disregarded.  
     
  4.4          A Participant who is eligible for a benefit commencing on his Postponed Retirement Date under Section 3.1 shall be entitled to the benefit determined in this Section 4.4.  
     
  (a)           For a Participant who incurs a Separation from Service prior to April 1, 2012, subject to Section 6.3, the amount payable to an eligible Participant in the Normal Form, commencing as of his Postponed Retirement Date (the  Excess Postponed Retirement Income ), shall be equal to the difference between (i) and (ii) as stated below:  
     
  (i)            the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon his Postponed Retirement Date to which the Participant would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan, if such benefit were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 and if such Qualified Plan Retirement Income were calculated using Average Final Compensation as defined herein;  
     
  (ii)           the sum of (A) the monthly amount of Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon his Postponed Retirement Date to the Participant under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof after the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date) and (B) the AG Offset.  
     
  (b)           Effective April 1, 2012, the Excess Postponed Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant (other than a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit or a Grandfathered Transition Benefit) in the form provided under Article 6 shall be equal to the Excess Account, subject to Section 4.4(f).  
     
  (c)           Effective April 1, 2012, the Excess Postponed Retirement Income payable to a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greater of (A) or (B), subject to Section 4.4(f), where:  
     
  10    

(A)          equals the Excess Account reduced by the AG Offset, and  
     
  (B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit.  
     
  (d)           Effective April 1, 2012, the Excess Postponed Retirement Income payable to a Participant eligible for a Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greatest of (A), (B), or (C), subject to Section 4.4(f), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account reduced by the AG Offset, and  
     
  (B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit, and  
     
  (C)          equals the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit.  
     
  (e)           For clarity, if the late retirement factors set forth in the Qualified Plan apply in determining the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable upon a Participant s Postponed Retirement referred to in Sections 4.4(a)(i) and (ii), 4.4(c)(B), and 4.4(d)(B) and (C), such late retirement factors shall apply in determining the amount of the Excess Postponed Retirement Income payable hereunder for a Participant listed on Schedule A whose benefit is determined under Section 4.6(a) or 4.6(b).  
     
  (f)            The Excess Accounts for purposes of determining the amounts in Sections 4.4(b), 4.4(c), and 4.4(d) shall be increased by the excess (if any) of (i) the Excess Account at Normal Retirement Date increased by the late retirement factors set forth in the Qualified Plan in Section 2.14(b)(iii) over (ii) the Excess Account at the Postponed Retirement Date. The Grandfathered Accrued Benefit and the Frozen Accrued Benefit shall be increased after Normal Retirement Date by applying the late retirement factors set forth in Appendix C of the Qualified Plan.  
     
  4.5          A Participant who is eligible for Disability Retirement under Section 3.1 shall be entitled to the benefit determined in this Section 4.5.  
     
  (a)           For a Participant who is determined to have incurred a Disability prior to April 1, 2012 and prior to his Normal Retirement Date (including a Participant who is determined to have incurred a Disability prior to his Early Retirement Date), subject to Section 6.3, an amount shall be payable in accordance with the terms of this Plan on such Participant s Normal Retirement Date (the  Excess Disability Retirement Income ). The Excess Disability Retirement Income payable in the Normal Form shall be equal to the difference between (i) and (ii) as stated below:  
     
  (i)            the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable by reason of disability to which the Participant would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan, if such benefit were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 and if such Qualified Plan Retirement Income were calculated using Average Final Compensation as defined herein;  
     
  11    

(ii)           the sum of (X) the monthly amount of Qualified Plan Retirement Income payable by reason of disability to the Participant under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof as of such Participant s Normal Retirement Date after the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date) and (Y) the AG Offset.  
     
  (b)           The Excess Disability Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant incurring a Disability on or after April 1, 2012 (other than a Participant Eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit or a Grandfathered Transition Benefit) shall be equal to the Excess Account.  
     
  (c)           The Excess Disability Retirement Income payable to a Participant incurring a Disability on or after April 1, 2012 eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greater of (A) or (B), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account reduced by the AG Offset, and  
     
  (B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance and the Frozen Accrued Benefit.  
     
  (d)           The Excess Disability Retirement Income payable to a Participant incurring a Disability on or after April 1, 2012 eligible for a Grandfathered Transition Benefit shall be equal to the greatest of (A), (B), or (C), where:  
     
  (A)          equals the Excess Account reduced by the AG Offset, and  
     
  (B)          equals the sum of the Excess Account, disregarding the Excess Opening Balance, and the Frozen Accrued Benefit, and  
     
  (C)          equals the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit.  
     
  4.6          Restriction on Benefit Accruals for Certain Participants.  
     
  (a)           Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, pursuant to rules established by the U.S. Treasury Department s special pay master ( Special Pay Master ), the benefit accruals of Participants listed in Schedule A shall freeze effective as of the date provided therein, and no benefit shall accrue under the Plan with respect to such Participants during the period set forth in Schedule A ( Freeze Period ) as may be amended from time to time pursuant to rules established by the Special Pay Master. For purposes of determining the amounts described under Sections 4.1(a), 4.3(a), 4.4(a), and 4.5(a) for a Participant listed in Schedule A, the Freeze Period shall be disregarded in determining Credited Service as defined in the Qualified Plan and Average Final Compensation as defined herein. For purposes of determining the amounts described under Sections 4.1(b), 4.3(b), 4.4(b), and 4.5(b) for a Participant listed in Schedule A, the Freeze Period shall be disregarded in determining Credited Service and Average Final Compensation, each as defined in the Qualified Plan.  
     
  (b)           Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, the benefit payable to a Participant listed on Schedule A shall be the lesser of the amount determined under Section 4.6(a) or the amount determined without regard to Section 4.6(a).  
     
  12    

4.7          Actuarial equivalence. For purposes of determining the benefit payable under Sections 4.2(b) and (c), 4.3(c) and (d), 4.4(c) and (d), and 4.5(c) and (d), amounts payable as an annuity shall be converted to a lump-sum applying the factors that apply under the Qualified Plan for such purpose with respect to the Qualified Plan benefit.  
     
  13    

ARTICLE 5  
     
   VESTING   
     
  A Participant shall have a nonforfeitable right to Excess Retirement Income under this Plan at such time that he attains his Normal Retirement Date. In addition, a Participant shall have a nonforfeitable right to Excess Retirement Income if he is eligible for Early Retirement pursuant to Section 3.2. Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan), Years of Service or Fraction Thereof, and participation occurring during the Freeze Period as defined in Section 4.6 for a Participant listed on Schedule A shall be included in determining whether a Participant is vested pursuant to this Article 5.  
     
  A Participant who terminates employment prior to attaining his Early or Normal Retirement Date, other than by reason of Disability (as provided for in Section 4.5), shall have no rights or claims to Retirement Income under this Plan as of his date of termination. In the case of death, a Participant s Designated Beneficiary may have a claim for benefits in accordance with Article 3 and Article 7.  
     
  14    

ARTICLE 6  
     
   MODES OF BENEFIT PAYMENT   
     
  6.1          Except as provided in Section 6.2, any Excess Retirement Income payable under this Plan accrued prior to April 1, 2012 shall be paid in the Normal Form, and any Excess Retirement Income payable under the Plan accrued on and after April 1, 2012 shall be paid in a lump sum. If a Participant dies prior to the commencement of benefits under the Plan, no benefits will be payable under the Plan except as specified in Article 7.  
     
  6.2          Only with respect to amounts accrued prior to April 1, 2012, in lieu of the Normal Form, a Participant may elect payment in an optional form of payment to the extent provided herein. The optional forms of benefits under the Plan shall include any of the annuity optional forms of benefits available under the Qualified Plan except for the Social Security Adjustment Option. Optional forms of benefit shall be actuarially equivalent to the Normal Form of benefit determined in accordance with the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan as of the date payment is to be made.  
     
  A Participant may elect an optional form of payment on a form provided by the Committee for such purpose. A Participant who has elected an annuity form of payment (or for whom the Normal Form of payment is in effect) may, at any time prior to Separation from Service or, in the case of Disability, prior to Normal Retirement Date, elect another form of annuity payment available under the Qualified Plan provided that such other form of payment is actuarially equivalent based on the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan as of the date payment is to be made. In the absence of any such an election, payment shall be made in the Normal Form.  
     
  6.3          Except as hereinafter provided or as provided in Section 6.4, payment of Excess Retirement Income under this Plan shall commence (or, for amounts accrued on and after April 1, 2012, shall be paid) within 90 days after the Participant incurs a Separation from Service with the Employer and each Affiliated Employer by reason of Normal, Early or Postponed Retirement. If the Participant terminates employment by reason of Disability Retirement, payment of Excess Retirement Income shall commence at the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. Provided further that if the Participant is a Specified Employee when such Participant incurs a Separation from Service, such Participant s Excess Retirement Income (except in the case of Disability Retirement) shall commence to be paid six months after the Participant separates from service. To the extent that monthly payments are delayed by reason of the foregoing six-month delay, such delayed monthly payments shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum amount when his Excess Retirement Income commences adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%. To the extent that a lump sum payment is delayed by reason of the foregoing six month delay, such delayed payment shall be adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%.  
     
  6.4          Special Commencement Date Rules for Certain Participants. This Section 6.4 provides special rules for determining the commencement date of Excess Retirement Income benefits for certain participants, as follows:  
     
  (a)           Except as described in (b), (c) or (d) below, in the case of a Participant who terminated employment with a vested right to Excess Retirement Income prior to January 1, 2008 (other than by reason of Disability Retirement) and who has not commenced receiving such  
     
  15    

Excess Retirement Income benefit by January 1, 2009, such Participant shall commence his or her Excess Retirement Income as of March 1, 2009.  
     
  (b)           In the case of an individual who (i) is a Participant in the Plan by reason of the merger of the HSB Excess Plan into this Plan; (ii) has a vested interest in his or her accrued benefit under the HSB Excess Plan and (iii) terminates employment prior to eligibility for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement under this Plan, such Participant shall commence payment of such HSB Excess Retirement Plan benefit within 90 days after the attainment of age 60 if such Participant terminated employment prior to age 55 or within 90 days after Separation from Service (but not earlier than six months after Separation from Service if the Participant is a Specified Employee) if such Participant terminates employment at or after age 55. To the extent that monthly payments are delayed by reason of the foregoing six-month delay, such delayed monthly payments shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum amount when his Excess Retirement Income commences adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%.  
     
  If a Participant is described in (i) or (ii) above, but has, however, terminated employment after qualifying for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement, such Participant s Excess Retirement Income shall be paid as specified in Section 6.3, subject to Section 6.4(e).  
     
  (c)           In the case of an individual who (i) is a Participant in the Plan by reason of the merger of the AG Restoration Plan into this Plan; (ii) has a vested interest in his or her accrued benefit under the AG Restoration Plan and (iii) terminates employment prior to eligibility for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement under this Plan, such Participant shall commence payment of such AG Restoration Plan benefit within 90 days after the attainment of age 55 if such Participant had earned 10 or more Years of Credited Service or within 90 days after the attainment of age 60 if such Participant had earned less than 10 Years of Credited Service (but not earlier than six months after Separation from Service if the Participant is a Specified Employee). To the extent that monthly payments are delayed by reason of the foregoing six-month delay, such delayed monthly payments shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum amount when his Excess Retirement Income commences adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%.  
     
  If a Participant is described in (i) or (ii) above, but has, however, terminated employment after qualifying for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement, such Participant s Excess Retirement Income shall be paid as specified in Section 6.3, subject to Section 6.4(e).  
     
  (d)           In the case of an individual who (i) is a Participant in the Plan by reason of the merger of the 20th Century Supplemental Plan into this Plan; (ii) has a vested interest in his or her accrued benefit under the 20th Century Supplemental Plan and (iii) terminates employment prior to eligibility for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement under this Plan, such Participant shall commence payment of such 20th Century Supplemental Plan benefit within 90 days of the attainment of age 55 if such Participant had earned 10 or more Years of Credited Service or within 90 days of the attainment of age 60 if such Participant had earned less than 10 Years of Credited Service (but not earlier than six months after Separation from Service if the Participant is a Specified Employee). To the extent that monthly payments are delayed by reason of the foregoing six-month delay, such delayed monthly payments shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum amount when his Excess Retirement Income commences adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%.  
     
  16    

If a Participant is described in (i) or (ii) above, but has, however, terminated employment after qualifying for Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement, such Participant s Excess Retirement Income shall be paid as specified in Section 6.3, subject to Section 6.4(e).  
     
  (e)           Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, this Amendment shall not have the effect of accelerating payment of a benefit into the 2008 calendar year which, in the absence of this Amendment, would be paid after December 31, 2008. Any benefit which would be paid in 2008 (or earlier) as the result of this Amendment shall be paid instead as of March 1, 2009. This Amendment shall not have the effect of deferring payment of a benefit beyond 2008 if, in the absence of this Amendment, such benefit would be paid in 2008.  
     
  17    

ARTICLE 7  
     
   DEATH BENEFITS   
     
  7.1          Upon the death of (i) a Participant who has not terminated from employment prior to his Normal, Early, or Postponed Retirement Date, or (ii) a Participant who terminates employment on a Normal, Early, or Postponed Retirement Date and dies prior to the date benefits commence under the Plan, if a Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity is payable under the Qualified Plan to the Surviving Spouse or, for deaths occurring on or after April 1, 2012, to the Participant s beneficiary under the Qualified Plan, an amount (the  Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity ) shall be payable to the Surviving Spouse or, for deaths occurring on or after April 1, 2012, the Designated Beneficiary under this Plan.  
     
  (a)           For deaths occurring prior to April 1, 2012, the monthly amount of the Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity payable to a Surviving Spouse shall be equal to (i) less (ii) less (iii) as stated below:  
     
  (i)            the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity to which the Surviving Spouse would have been entitled under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof as of the date of death or, if later, as of the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the date the Participant would have attained age 55, if such benefit were calculated under the Qualified Plan without giving effect to the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 and if such Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity were calculated using Average Final Compensation as defined herein; less  
     
  (ii)           the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity payable to the Surviving Spouse under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof as of the date of death, or, if later, as of the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the date the Participant would have attained age 55 after the limitations imposed by the application of Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 (whether or not such benefits are actually paid as of such date); less  
     
  (iii)          the AG Offset, if any.  
     
  For purposes of (ii) and (iii) above, if the Participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the amounts computed under (ii) and (iii) shall be the amounts that would be payable at Normal Retirement Date under those sections, but reduced by 6-2/3% for each of the first 5 years (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that payment precedes age 65 and 3-1/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that payment precedes age 60.  
     
  For a Participant listed on Schedule A whose benefit is determined under Section 7.4(a), for purposes of determining what reduction factors apply for purposes of this Section 7.1, the number of years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan) occurring during the Freeze Period shall be disregarded.  
     
  (b)           For a death occurring on or after April 1, 2012, an Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable to an eligible Participant s Designated Beneficiary.  
     
  18    

(i)            For the Designated Beneficiary of an eligible Participant (other than a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit or a Grandfathered Transition Benefit), the amount of the Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be equal to the Excess Account.  
     
  (ii)           For the Designated Beneficiary of an eligible Participant who is eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit, the amount of the Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be equal to the Excess Account, reduced by the AG Offset.  
     
  (iii)          For the Designated Beneficiary of an eligible Participant who is eligible for a Grandfathered Transition Benefit, the amount of the Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be equal to the greater of (X) the Excess Account, reduced by the AG Offset, or (Y) the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit reduced to reflect early commencement, if applicable, by applying the early retirement factors set forth in the Qualified Plan, reduced by the AG Offset.  If the participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the Grandfathered Accrued Benefit shall be the amounts that would be payable at Normal Retirement Date, but reduced by 6-2/3% for each of the first 5 years (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that payment preceded age 65 and 3-1/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that payment preceded age 60. For a Participant listed on Schedule A whose benefit is determined under Section 7.4(a), for purposes of determining what reduction factors apply for purposes of this Section 7.1, the number of years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan) occurring during the Freeze Period shall be disregarded.  
     
  (c)           Actuarial equivalence. For purposes of determining the benefit payable under Section 7.1(b)(iii), amounts payable as an annuity shall be converted to a lump-sum applying the factors that apply under the Qualified Plan for such purpose with respect to the Qualified Plan benefit at the time such benefit commences.  
     
  7.2          For a death occurring prior to April 1, 2012, any Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable over the lifetime of the Surviving Spouse in monthly installments commencing after the Participant s date of death or, if later, within 90 days after the date the Participant would have attained age 55 and ceasing with the last monthly payment made prior to the Surviving Spouse s death. For a Participant other than a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit or a Grandfathered Transition Benefit, for a death occurring on and after April 1, 2012, any Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable in a single lump sum to the Designated Beneficiary within 90 days after the death of the Participant. For a Participant eligible for a Non-Grandfathered Transition Benefit, for a death occurring on or after April 1, 2012, (i) the Excess Opening Account Balance shall be payable over the lifetime of the Designated Beneficiary in monthly installments commencing after the Participant s date of death or, if later, within 90 days after the date the Participant would have attained age 55 and ceasing with the last monthly payment made prior to the Designated Beneficiary s death, and (ii) benefits accrued on or after April 1, 2012 shall be payable in a single lump sum to the Designated Beneficiary within 90 days after the death of the Participant. For a Participant eligible for a Grandfathered Transition Benefit, for a death occurring on or after April 1, 2012, (i) the Frozen Accrued Benefit shall be payable over the lifetime of the Designated Beneficiary in monthly installments commencing after the Participant s date of death or, if later, within 90 days after the date the Participant would have attained age 55 and ceasing with the last monthly payment made prior to the Designated Beneficiary s death, and (ii) benefits accrued on or after April 1, 2012  
     
  19    

shall be payable in a single lump sum to the Designated Beneficiary within 90 days after the death of the Participant.  
     
  7.3          Except as provided in Section 3.3, upon the death of a Participant who terminated from employment prior to his Normal, Early, Postponed or Disability Retirement Date, no Excess Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable to such Participant s Surviving Spouse or Designated Beneficiary under this Plan. Except as provided in Article 6, with respect to a Participant who has retired and commenced receiving a benefit in a form that provides for continuation after the Participant s death, no other death benefits shall be payable from the Plan.  
     
  7.4          Restriction for Certain Participants.  
     
  (a)           Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, for purposes of determining the amount payable under Section 7.1 with respect to a Participant listed on Schedule A, the Freeze Period as defined in Section 4.6 shall be disregarded in determining (i) Credited Service as defined in the Qualified Plan and Average Final Compensation as defined herein, for purposes of determining the amount under Section 7.1(a), and (ii) Credited Service and Average Final Compensation, each as defined in the Qualified Plan, for purposes of determining the amount under Section 7.1(b).  
     
  (b)           Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, the benefit payable to the Surviving Spouse or Designated Beneficiary of a Participant listed on Schedule A shall be the lesser of the amount determined under Section 7.4(a) or the amount determined under the Plan without regard to Section 7.4(a).  
     
  20    

ARTICLE 8  
     
   LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY   
     
  8.1          The benefits of this Plan shall be paid by the Employer and shall not be funded prior to the time paid to the Participant, Designated Beneficiary, Surviving Spouse or joint or contingent annuitant designated by the Participant, unless and except as expressly provided otherwise by the Company. For clarity, the Company may, in its sole discretion, establish a grantor trust, escrow agreement or similar arrangement, subject to the claims of general creditors, to provide a source of funds to assist it in meeting its liabilities under the Plan.  
     
  8.2          A Participant who is vested in a benefit under this Plan shall be an unsecured creditor of the Employer as to the payment of any benefit under this Plan.  
     
  21    

ARTICLE 9  
     
   ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN   
     
  9.1          Except for the functions reserved to the Company, the Retirement Board, or the Employee Benefits Department of the Company, or the administration of the Plan shall be the responsibility of the Committee.  
     
  9.2          In its role as Plan Administrator, the Committee shall have the power and the duty to take all actions and to make all decisions necessary or proper to carry out the Plan. The determination of the Committee as to any question involving the general administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding. Any discretionary actions to be taken under the Plan by the Committee shall be uniform in their nature and applicable to all persons similarly situated. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee, in its role as Plan Administrator, shall have the following powers and duties:  
     
  (a)           To furnish to all Participants, upon request, copies of the Plan; and to require any person to furnish such information as it may request for the purpose of the proper administration of the Plan as a condition to receiving any benefits under the Plan;  
     
  (b)           To make and enforce such rules and regulations and prescribe the use of such forms as it shall deem necessary for the efficient administration of the Plan;  
     
  (c)           To interpret the Plan, and to resolve ambiguities, inconsistencies and omissions, which findings shall be binding, final and conclusive;  
     
  (d)           To decide on questions concerning the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan;  
     
  (e)           The power to delegate its role as Plan Administrator to a person who may or may not be a member of the Committee for the purpose of ERISA; if the Committee does not so designate an Administrator, the Committee shall be the Plan Administrator;  
     
  (f)            To allocate any such powers and duties to or among individual members of the Committee; and  
     
  (g)           To designate persons other than Committee members to carry out any duty or power which would otherwise be a responsibility of the Committee or Administrator, under the terms of the Plan.  
     
  9.3          To the extent permitted by law, the Committee and any person to whom it may delegate any duty or power in connection with administering the Plan, the Employer, and the officers and directors thereof, shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon, and shall be fully protected in any action taken or suffered by them in good faith in the reliance upon, any actuary, counsel , accountant, other specialist, or other person selected by the Committee, or in reliance upon any tables, valuations, certificates, opinions or reports which shall be furnished by any of them. Further, to the extent permitted by law, no member of the Committee, nor the Employer, nor the officers or directors thereof, shall be liable for any neglect, omission or wrongdoing of any other members of the Committee, agent, officer or employee of an Employer. Any person claiming under the Plan shall look solely to the Employer for redress.  
     
  22    

9.4          All expenses incurred prior to the termination of the Plan that shall arise in connection with the administration of the Plan, including, but not limited to administrative expenses, proper charges and disbursements, compensation and other expenses and charges of any actuary, counsel, accountant, specialist, or other person who shall be employed by the Committee in connection with the administration thereof, shall be paid by the Employer.  
     
  9.5          Claims Procedure.  
     
  (a)           In General  
     
  (i)            Application. The claims procedures in Section 9.5(b) of the Plan apply to all claims for benefits of any kind other than claims related to disability benefits that are governed by the claims procedures in Section 9.5(c) of the Plan.  
     
  (ii)           Filing of a Claim. A Participant, beneficiary, or other individual must file a claim for benefits under the Plan by filing a written claim, identified as a claim for benefits, with the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan). In addition, the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) may treat any other written communication received by it as a claim for benefits, even if the writing or communication is not identified as a claim for benefits. In addition, a Participant, beneficiary, or other individuals alleging a violation of or seeking a remedy under any provision of the Act, other applicable law, the terms or the Plan, or asserting any other claims that arise under or in connection with the Plan shall also be subject to and must file any and all such claims under the claims procedure described in this Section 9.5 of the Plan.  
     
  (iii)          Approval of a Claim. A claim is considered approved only if its approval is communicated in writing to a claimant. If a claimant does not receive a response to a claim for benefits within the applicable time period, the claimant may proceed with an appeal under the procedures described in Section 9.5(b) and (c), as applicable.  
     
  (iv)          Claims Procedures Mandatory in All Cases. A claimant must follow the claims procedures (including both the initial determination and review processes) set forth in this Section 9.5 of the Plan before taking action in any other forum regarding a claim of any kind under or related to the Plan. Any such suit or action shall be filed within one year of the time the claim arises or it shall be deemed waived and abandoned. Also, any suit or action will be subject to such limitation period as applies under the Act or other applicable law, measured from the date a claim arises.  
     
  (v)           Discretionary Acts. Benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them. In exercising its discretionary powers under the Plan, the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) will have the broadest discretion permissible under the Act and any other applicable laws and its decisions will be final and binding upon all persons affected thereby.  
     
  23    

(vi)          Delegation of Authority. The Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) may, in its sole discretion, delegate any and all authority under this Section 9.5 of the Plan, in any manner. Any delegation of some or all of the Retirement Board s (Employee Benefits Department s in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) authority under this Section 9.5 of the Plan shall, unless otherwise provided in the Retirement Board s ((Employee Benefits Department s in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) delegation, be empowered with the same discretion and authority as granted to the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) under this Section 9.5 of the Plan.  
     
  (b)           Non-Disability Claims  
     
  (i)            Initial Claims. The Retirement Board will decide a claim within 90 days of the date on which the claim is received by the Retirement Board, unless special circumstances require a longer period for adjudication and the claimant is notified in writing, prior to the expiration of the 90-day period, of the reasons for an extension of time and the expected decision date. If the Retirement Board fails to notify the claimant of its decision to grant or deny such claim within the time specified by this paragraph, the claimant may request the review of his or her claim pursuant to the claims review procedures set forth in Section 9.5(b)(ii) of the Plan. If a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claimant must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a description of additional information necessary for the claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material is necessary; and  
     
  (D)          an explanation of the procedure for review of the denied or partially denied claim set forth below, including the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act following an adverse benefit determination on review.  
     
  (ii)           Review of Denied Claims. The claimant will have 60 days to request in writing a review of the denial of his or her claim by the Retirement Board (or, if the claimant has not received a response to the initial claim, within 150 days of the filing of the initial claim). The claimant or his duly authorized representative will have, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all, documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits. If the claimant files a request for review, his request must include a description of the issues and evidence he deems relevant. Failure to raise issues or present evidence on review will preclude those issues or evidence from being presented in any subsequent proceeding or judicial review of the claim. The review will take into account all available information, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  
     
  24    

The Retirement Board must render its decision on the review of the claim no more than 60 days after the Retirement Board s receipt of the request for review, except that this period may be extended for an additional 60 days if the Retirement Board determines that special circumstances (including, but not limited to, a hearing) require such extension. If an extension of time is required, written notice of the expected decision date and the reasons for the extension will be furnished to the claimant before the end of the initial 60-day period. If a review of a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claim must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; and  
     
  (D)          a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act.  
     
  (c)           Disability Claims.  
     
  (i)            Initial Claims. The Employee Benefits Department will decide a claim within 45 days of the date on which the claim is received by the Employee Benefits Department. If the Employee Benefits Department determines that an extension is necessary for reasons beyond its control, the Employee Benefits Department may extend this period for an additional 30 days by notifying the claimant of the reasons for the extension and the date when the claimant can expect to receive a decision The Employee Benefits Department may also extend this period for a second 30 day period by again complying with the requirements applicable to the initial 30-day extension. If an extension is provided in order to allow the claimant time to provide additional information necessary to review the claim, the response deadlines applicable to the Employee Benefits Department will be tolled until the earlier of the date 45 days after the date of the request for additional information or the date the Employee Benefits Department receives the additional information. If the Employee Benefits Department fails to notify the claimant of its decision to grant or deny such claim within the time specified by this paragraph, the claimant may request the review of his or her claim pursuant to the claims review procedures set forth in Section 9.5(c)(ii) of the Plan. If a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claimant must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a description of additional information necessary for the claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material is necessary;  
     
  25    

(D)          an explanation of the procedure for review of the denied or partially denied claim set forth below, including the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act following an adverse benefit determination on review;  
     
  (E)           if applicable, any internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion relied on in making the adverse benefit determination (or a statement that such information is available free of charge upon request); and  
     
  (F)           if the adverse benefit determination is based on a scientific or clinical exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the Plan to the claimant s circumstances (or a statement that such explanation is available free of charge upon request).  
     
  (ii)           Review of Denied Claims. The claimant will have 180 days to request in writing a review of the denial of his or her claim by the Retirement Board. The claimant or his duly authorized representative will have, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all, documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits. If the claimant files a request for review, his request must include a description of the issues and evidence he deems relevant. Failure to raise issues or present evidence on review will preclude those issues or evidence from being presented in any subsequent proceeding or judicial review of the claim. The review will take into account all available information, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination and will not afford deference to the initial disability determination.  
     
  In no event will the review be conducted by the person who made the initial determination or by a subordinate of such person. If the initial adverse benefit determination was based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, including determinations with regard to whether a particular treatment, drug, or other item is experimental, investigational, or not medically necessary or appropriate, the Retirement Board shall consult with a health care professional who has appropriate training and experience in the field of medicine involved in the medical judgment and who neither was consulted nor is the subordinate of an individual who was consulted in connection with the adverse benefit determination that is the subject of the claimant s request for review. In addition, the reviewer shall provide for the identification of medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the plan in connection with a claimant s adverse benefit determination, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the benefit determination.  
     
  The Retirement Board must render its decision on the review of the claim no more than 45 days after the Retirement Board s receipt of the request for review, except that this period may be extended for an additional 45 days if the Retirement Board determines that special circumstances (including, but not limited to, a hearing) require such extension. If an extension of time is required, written notice of the expected decision date and the reasons for the extension will be furnished to the claimant before the end of the initial 45-day period. If an extension is provided in order to allow the claimant time to provide additional information necessary to review the claim, the response deadlines applicable to the Retirement Board will be tolled until the earlier of the date 45 days after  
     
  26    

the date of the request for additional information or the date the Retirement Board receives the additional information. If a review of a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claim must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; and  
     
  (D)          a statement describing any voluntary appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the claimant s right to obtain the information about such procedures and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act.  
     
  (E)           if applicable, any internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion relied upon in making the adverse benefit determination (or a statement that such information will be provided free of charge upon request); and  
     
  (F)           if the adverse benefit determination is based on medical necessity or an experimental care exclusion or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the Plan to the claimant s medical circumstances (or a statement that such explanation is available free of charge upon request).  
     
  27    

ARTICLE 10  
     
   AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN   
     
  10.1        The Committee shall have the power to suspend or terminate this Plan in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time to extend, modify, amend, revise, or terminate this Plan in such respects as the Committee by resolution may deem advisable; provided that no such extension, modification, amendment, revision, or termination shall deprive a Participant or any beneficiary designated by a Participant of the vested portion of any benefit under this Plan.  
     
  28    

ARTICLE 11  
     
   GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  11.1        This Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Employer and any Employee or other person whether or not in the employ of the Employer, nor shall anything herein contained be deemed to give any Employee or other person whether or not in the employ of the Employer any right to be retained in the employ of the Employer, or to interfere with the right of the Employer to discharge any Employee at any time and to treat him without any regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him as a Participant of the Plan.  
     
  11.2        Except as may otherwise be required by law, no distribution or payment under the Plan to any Participant, beneficiary, or joint or contingent annuitant, shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, whether voluntary or involuntary, and any attempt to so anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge the same shall be void; nor shall any such distribution or payment be in any way liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any person entitled to such distribution or payment. If any Participant, beneficiary, or joint or contingent annuitant is adjudicated bankrupt or purports to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any such distribution or payment, voluntarily or involuntarily, the Committee, in its discretion, may cancel such distribution or payment or may hold or cause to be held or applied such distribution or payment or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such Participant, beneficiary, or joint or contingent annuitant in such manner as the Committee shall direct.  
     
  11.3        If the Employer determines that any person entitled to payments under the Plan is an infant or incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability, it may cause all payments thereafter becoming due to such person to be made to any other person for his benefit, without responsibility to follow application of amounts so paid. Payments made pursuant to this provision shall completely discharge the Plan, the Employer and the Committee.  
     
  11.4        The Employer shall be the sole source of benefits under this Plan, and each Employee, Participant, joint or contingent annuitant, beneficiary, or any other person who shall claim the right to any payment or benefit under this Plan shall be entitled to look only to the Employer for payment of benefits.  
     
  11.5        If the Employer is unable to make payment to any Participant or other person to whom a payment is due under the Plan because it cannot ascertain the identity or whereabouts of such Participant or other person after reasonable efforts have been made to identify or locate such person (including a notice of the payment so due mailed to the last known address of such Participant or other person shown on the records of the Employer), such payment and all subsequent payments otherwise due to such Participant or other person shall be forfeited twenty-four (24) months after the date such payment first became due; provided, however, that such payment and any subsequent payments shall be reinstated retroactively, no later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the Participant or person is identified or located.  
     
  11.6        The Employer shall have the right to deduct from each payment made under the Plan any amount required to satisfy its obligation to withhold federal, state and local taxes, if any.  
     
  29    

11.7        The provisions of the Plan shall be construed, administered and governed under applicable Federal laws and the laws of the State of New York.  
     
  30    

Appendix A   
     
   Restoration of Retirement Income Plan   
   For Certain Employees Participating   
   in the   
   Restated American General Retirement Plan   
     
  December 31, 1998 Restatement  
     
  (Incorporation November, 1991 Plan and Amendments thereof)  

RESTORATION OF RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN   
       
   FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATING IN THE   
       
   RESTATED AMERICAN GENERAL RETIREMENT PLAN   
     
  The RESTORATION OF RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATING IN THE RESTATED AMERICAN GENERAL RETIREMENT PLAN (hereinafter referred to as the  Restoration Plan ) is hereby restated effective as of December 31, 1998 by AMERICAN GENERAL CORPORATION and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the  Employer,  jointly and severally). The Restoration Plan has been established to provide for the payment of certain pension and pension-related benefits to certain employees who are participants in the AMERICAN GENERAL RETIREMENT PLAN (hereinafter referred to as the  Basic Plan ). The Employer intends and desires to recognize the value to the Employer of the past and present services of employees covered by the Restoration Plan and to encourage and assure their continued service to the Employer by making more adequate provision for their future retirement security. All terms used in this Restoration Plan shall have the meanings assigned to them under the provisions of the Basic Plan unless otherwise qualified by the context.  
     
  1.                                           Incorporation of the Basic Plan   
     
  The Basic Plan, with any amendments thereto, shall be attached hereto as Exhibit I and is hereby incorporated by reference into and shall form a part of this Restoration Plan as fully as if set forth herein verbatim. Any amendment made to the Basic Plan by the Employer shall also be incorporated by reference into and form a part of this Restoration Plan, effective as of the effective date of such amendment. The Basic Plan, whenever referred to in this Restoration Plan, shall mean the Basic Plan, as amended, as it exists as of the date any determination is made of benefits payable under this Restoration Plan.  
     
  2.                                           Administration   
     
  This Restoration Plan shall be administered by the administrative committee (hereinafter referred to as the  Committee ) under the Basic Plan which shall administer it in a manner consistent with the administration of the Basic Plan, as from time to time amended and in effect, except that this Restoration Plan shall be administered as an unfunded plan that is not intended to meet the qualification requirements of section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). The Committee shall have full power and authority to interpret, construe and administer this Restoration Plan. No member of the Committee shall be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the interpretation and administration of this Restoration Plan unless attributable to his own willful misconduct or lack of good faith. Members of the Committee shall not participate in any action or determination regarding their own benefits hereunder.  
     
  A-2    

3.                                           Eligibility   
     
  Employees, excluding Career Agents, who are Highly Compensated Participants who are participating in the Basic Plan, and either (1) whose pension or pension-related benefits under the Basic Plan are limited pursuant to section 401(a)(17) or section 415 of the Code or (2) who are eligible to participate in the American General Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, shall be eligible for benefits under this Restoration Plan. In no event shall an employee who is not eligible for benefits under the Basic Plan be eligible for a benefit under this Restoration Plan.  
     
  4.                                           Amount of Benefit   
     
  The benefit payable to an eligible employee or his beneficiary under this Restoration Plan shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the excess, if any, of (a) over (b):  
     
  (a)           the benefit that would have been payable to such employee or on his behalf under the Basic Plan if such benefit were determined without regard to the maximum amount of benefit limitations of section 415 of the Code, without regard to the considered compensation limitations of section 401(a)(17) of the Code, as if the definition of Compensation under the Basic Plan as in effect on March 21, 1985 were applicable for the period January 1, 1985 through March 20, 1985 and as if the definition of Compensation included executive deferred compensation;  
     
  (b)           the benefit which is in fact payable to such employee or on his behalf under the Basic Plan, as in effect from time to time.  
     
  5.                                           Payment of Benefits   
     
  The benefit payable under this Restoration Plan on account of an eligible employee s death shall be paid to the same beneficiary or beneficiaries and in the same form and at the same time or times as the limited benefits are payable to the employee s beneficiary under the Basic Plan. The benefit payable under this Restoration Plan for any reason other than on account of an eligible employee s death shall be payable in the form of a benefit for the life of the employee, beginning at his age sixty-five or, if later, his termination of employment with the Employer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, direct that the benefit payable under this Restoration Plan shall be paid in the same form as, and coincident with, the payment of the limited benefit payments made to the eligible employee or on his behalf to his beneficiary or beneficiaries under the Basic Plan. Further, notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, if an eligible employee becomes entitled to a lump sum payment under Section 2.6 (or a successor section) of the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the employee shall receive the benefit payable under this Restoration Plan in the form of a lump sum amount, in cash, equal to the actuarial equivalent of such benefit. Such lump sum amount shall be paid within the five (5) business days immediately following termination of the employee s employment.  
     
  6.                                           Employee s Rights   
     
  Except as otherwise specifically provided, an employee s rights under this Restoration Plan, including his rights to vested benefits, shall be the same as his rights under the Basic Plan.  
     
  A-3    

Benefits payable under this Restoration Plan shall be a general, unsecured obligation of the Employer to be paid by the Employer from its own funds, and such payments shall not (i) impose any obligation upon the Trust Fund under said Basic Plan; (ii) be paid from the Trust Fund under said Basic Plan; or (iii) have any effect whatsoever upon the Basic Plan or the payment of benefits from the Trust Fund under said Basic Plan. No employee or his beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have any title to or beneficial ownership in any assets which the Employer may earmark to pay benefits hereunder.  
     
  7.                                           Amendment and Discontinuance   
     
  This Restoration Plan may be amended from time to time, or terminated and discontinued at any time, in each case at the discretion of the Board of Directors of American General Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment shall be made, nor shall this Restoration Plan be terminated in a manner which would reduce the benefits or rights to benefits of any employee accrued under the Restoration Plan (determined on the basis of each employee s presumed termination of employment as of the date of such amendment or termination) prior to the later of the adoption or the effective date of such amendment or termination.  
     
  8.                                           Restrictions on Assignment   
     
  The interest of an employee or his beneficiary or beneficiaries may not be sold, transferred, assigned, or encumbered in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily, and any attempt so to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge the same shall be null and void; neither shall the benefits hereunder be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of any person to whom such benefits or funds are payable, nor shall they be subject to garnishments, attachment, or other legal or equitable process nor shall they be an asset in bankruptcy.  
     
  9.                                           Nature of Agreement   
     
  This Restoration Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded  excess benefit plan  within the meaning of sections 3(36) and 4(b)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, with respect to a part of the Restoration Plan and an unfunded  deferred compensation plan  for a select group of management or highly-compensated employees within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, with respect to the remainder of the Restoration Plan. The adoption of this Restoration Plan and any setting aside of amounts by the Employer with which to discharge its obligations hereunder shall not be deemed to create a trust; legal and equitable title to any funds so set aside shall remain in the Employer, and any recipient of benefits hereunder shall have no security or other interest in such funds. Any and all funds so set aside shall remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Employer, present and future. This provision shall not require the Employer to set aside any funds, but the Employer may set aside such funds if it chooses to do so. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 6 and 11 hereof and the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, American General Corporation may, in its discretion, establish a trust to pay amounts becoming payable pursuant to this Restoration Plan, which trust shall be subject to the claims of the general creditors of American General  
     
  A-4    

Corporation in the event of its bankruptcy or insolvency. Notwithstanding any establishment of such a trust, the Employer shall remain responsible for the payment of any amounts so payable which are not so paid by such trust.  
     
  10.                                    Continued Employment   
     
  Nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring upon any employee the right to continue in the employ of the Employer in any capacity.  
     
  11.                                    Binding on Employer, Employees and Their Successors   
     
  This Restoration Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Employer, its successors and assigns and the employee and his heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. The provisions of this Restoration Plan shall be applicable with respect to each Employer separately, and amounts payable hereunder shall be paid by the Employer of the particular employee.  
     
  12.                                    Employment with More Than One Employer   
     
  If any employee shall be entitled to benefits under the Basic Plan on account of service with more than one Employer, the obligations under this Restoration Plan shall be apportioned among such Employers on the basis of time of service with each, except that an Employer from whose employ such employee was transferred prior to his retirement, death or disability shall be obligated with respect to employment prior to such transfer only to the extent of an amount based on assumed pay increases in accordance with the scale used for computing the actuarial cost under the Basic Plan for the year of the transfer. If obligations are so limited, the remaining obligations shall be borne by the last Employer.  
     
  13.                                    Laws Governing   
     
  This Restoration Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas.  
     
  EXECUTED as of the 31st day of December, 1998.  

AMERICAN GENERAL CORPORATION           

By:       

Mark S. Berg           

Executive Vice President and General Counsel              
     
  A-5    

Appendix B   
     
   THE HARTFORD STEAM BOILER   
   Excess Retirement Benefit Plan   
     
   As Amended and Restated October 23, 1989   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

ARTICLE I PURPOSE       
 
  B-3           

ARTICLE II ELIGIBILITY       
 
  B-3           

ARTICLE III AMOUNT AND   PAYMENT OF BENEFIT       
 
  B-3           

ARTICLE IV UNFUNDED   OBLIGATIONS, TRUST AGREEMENT       
 
  B-4           

ARTICLE V TERMINATION AND   MODIFICATION       
 
  B-4           

ARTICLE VI EFFECTIVE DATE       
 
  B-4           

ARTICLE VII CHANGE IN   CONTROL       
 
  B-4           

ARTICLE VIII ASSIGNMENT AND   ALIENATION       
 
  B-5              
     
  B-2    

ARTICLE I  
     
  PURPOSE  
     
  The purpose of the Plan is to provide benefits that would have been provided under The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company Retirement Plan (hereinafter the  Retirement Plan ) but for the provisions of Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code as referenced in Article IX of the Retirement Plan.  
     
  ARTICLE II  
     
  ELIGIBILITY  
     
  Eligibility to participate in this Plan shall be determined in accordance with the participation requirements contained in the Retirement Plan.  
     
  ARTICLE III  
     
  AMOUNT AND PAYMENT OF BENEFIT  
     
  The provisions of Articles I, II, III and VI of the Retirement Plan and any future amendments thereto are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the benefit provided herein insofar as they are not in conflict with the specific provisions contained under this Plan.  
     
  If a participant, except a Vested Terminated Participant (as defined under Section 1.36 of the Retirement Plan), has a spouse at the time benefit payments hereunder are scheduled to commence, benefits shall be paid to him in accordance with the Employee/Spouse Income Option described under Section 4.02(a) of the Retirement Plan.  
     
  If a Vested Terminated Participant has a spouse at the time benefit payments are scheduled to commence, benefits shall be paid to him in accordance with the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity described under Section 4.02(b) of the Retirement Plan.  
     
  If a participant, including a Vested Terminated Participant, does not have a spouse at the time benefit payments are scheduled to commence, benefits shall be paid to him in accordance with the Employee Only Income Option described under Section 4.03 of the Retirement Plan.  
     
  This Plan will provide a retirement benefit in an amount equal to the amount by which the retirement income, calculated in accordance with Article III of the Retirement Plan without regard to Article IX of the Retirement Plan, is reduced after applying the limitations of Article IX.  
     
  For a participant, other than a Vested Terminated Participant or a Disabled Participant, benefits shall commence on the first day of the month following participant s actual retirement date. For a Vested Terminated Participant or a Disabled Participant benefits shall commence on the first day of the month following such participant s Normal Retirement Date (as defined in the Plan).  
     
  B-3    

ARTICLE IV  
     
  UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS, TRUST AGREEMENT  
     
  The Company will pay from its general assets all payments to be made hereunder. However, the Company may in its discretion establish a trust, escrow agreement or similar arrangement in order to aid the Company in meeting its obligations hereunder.  
     
  Any assets transferred by the Company into any such arrangement shall remain at all times assets of the Company and subject to the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. No security interest in such assets shall be created in a participant s favor and a participant s rights under this Plan and under any such arrangement shall be those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.  
     
  ARTICLE V  
     
  TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION  
     
  The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time terminate or from time to time modify or suspend, and if suspended, may reinstate any or all of the provisions of this Plan except that no modification or termination of this Plan may reduce any benefit that has accrued under this Plan as of the date of modification or termination.  
     
  ARTICLE VI  
     
  EFFECTIVE DATE  
     
  The effective date of this Plan shall be January 1, 1984.  
     
  ARTICLE VII  
     
  CHANGE IN CONTROL  
     
  In the event of a Change in Control of the Company this Plan shall continue to be binding upon the Company, any successor in interest to the Company and all persons in control of the Company or any successor thereto and no transaction or series of transactions shall have the effect of reducing or eliminating the benefits payable to a participant that have not been distributed unless consented to in writing by such affected participant. A  Change in Control  as referred to under this Section shall be deemed to have occurred if:  
     
  (a)                                     any  person  (as defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities;  
     
  B-4    

(b)                                     during any period within two (2) consecutive years there shall cease to be a majority of the Board of Directors comprised as follows: individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors and any new director(s) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved; or  
     
  (c)                                      the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 80% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no  person  (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 25% of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the shareholders of the Company approve (i) a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or (ii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the Company assets.  
     
  ARTICLE VIII  
     
  ASSIGNMENT AND ALIENATION  
     
  Benefits under this Plan may not be anticipated, assigned (either at law or in equity), alienated, or subjected to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution or other legal or equitable process. If any participant or beneficiary under this Plan becomes bankrupt or attempts to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any benefit under this Plan, such benefit shall, in the discretion of the Committee, cease and terminate, in which event the Committee may hold or apply the same or any part thereof for the benefit of such participant, his beneficiary, his spouse, children, other dependants or any of such individuals, in such manner and in such proportion as the Committee may deem proper.  
     
  B-5    

Appendix C   
     
   20TH CENTURY INDUSTRIES   
   Supplemental Pension Plan   
   (RESTATEMENT NO. 1)   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

C-2    

C-3    

ARTICLE I   
       
   PURPOSE   
     
  The purpose of the 20th Century Industries Supplemental Pension Plan (the  Plan ) is to attract and retain valuable executive employees by making available certain benefits that otherwise would be unavailable under the Company s Qualified Pension Plan.  
     
  This Plan is designed to qualify as an unfunded plan of deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees described in 29 CFR   2520.104-23 and Sections 201(a), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). Further, this Plan is a plan described in 4 U.S.C. Section 114 and Section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), established to pay retirement income after termination of employment, and maintained solely for the purpose of providing retirement benefits for employees in excess of the limitations imposed by one or more of Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g), 403(b), 408(k), or 415 of such Code or any other limitation on contributions or benefits in such Code on plans to which any of such Sections apply.  
     
  This instrument amends and restates the provisions of this Plan, this amendment and restatement to be effective as of January 1, 1996.  
     
   ARTICLE II   
       
   DEFINITIONS   
     
  The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below in this Article II, when capitalized:  
     
   2.1                                        Committee    
     
  means the committee appointed to administer the Plan in accordance with Article X.  
     
   2.2                                        Company    
     
  means 20th Century Industries, and shall include any corporation that is affiliated with 20th Century Industries, and which, by designation by the Chief Executive Officer of 20th Century Industries, is included within the meaning of the term  Company,  with the result that otherwise eligible executives of such entity may participate herein.  
     
   2.3                                        Compensation    
     
  means compensation as defined in the Qualified Pension Plan determined, however, without regard to the limitations of Section 401(a)(17) and prior to any reduction for compensation deferrals under the 20th Century Industries 401(k) Supplemental Plan, the 20th Century Industries Savings and Security Plan and any salary reduction pursuant to Code Section 125 or 129.  
     
  C-4    

2.4                                        Early Retirement Date    
     
  means Early Retirement Date as defined in the Qualified Pension Plan.  
     
   2.5                                        Effective Date    
     
  means January 1, 1996.  
     
   2.6                                        Eligible Employee    
     
  means an employee of the Company who on or after the Effective Date has Compensation for a Plan Year in excess of the applicable limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, except as provided in Section 3.2.  
     
   2.7                                        Normal Retirement Date    
     
  means Normal Retirement Date as defined in the Qualified Pension Plan.  
     
   2.8                                        Participant    
     
  means each Eligible Employee who has commenced to participate in this Plan in accordance with Article III.  
     
   2.9                                        Plan    
     
  means the 20th Century Industries Supplemental Pension Plan, as set forth herein.  
     
   2.10                                 Plan Administrator    
     
  means 20th Century Industries. For purposes of Section 3(16)(A) of ERISA, 20th Century Industries shall be the  plan administrator  and shall be responsible for compliance with any applicable reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by ERISA.  
     
   2.11                                 Plan Year    
     
  means the fiscal period commencing each January 1 and ending the following December 31.  
     
   2.12                                 Qualified Pension Plan    
     
  means the 20th Century Industries Pension Plan, as in effect from time to time.  
     
   2.13                                 Separation from Service    
     
  means any separation from service of the Company for any reason. In the case of a Participant on disability, Separation from Service shall be deemed to occur when long term disability coverage commences, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.  
     
  C-5    

ARTICLE III   
       
   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
     
   3.1                                       Eligibility to Participate   
     
  Subject to the provisions of Section 3.2 below, each Eligible Employee shall become a Participant as of the later of the Effective Date or the date on which person becomes an Eligible Employee.  
     
   3.2                                       Certain Enrollment Procedures   
     
  As a condition of participation or continued participation in this Plan the Committee may require an Eligible Employee to deliver to the Committee such properly completed enrollment forms and agreements as the Committee may require. Such forms or agreements may permit an Eligible employee to designate a form of payment applicable to all benefits payable hereunder. Such designation shall be irrevocable, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, permits an Eligible Employee to change his or her election of payment method to a method providing payments over a longer period of time than originally elected by the Eligible Employee and which will not reasonably result in any increase in the amount otherwise payable in any taxable year of the Participant during which payment would have been made under the method of payment previously elected. No payment option shall be selected by a Participant which is not among a list of payment options generally made available to all Participants by the Committee at the time of such selection. No assurance regarding the tax effects of making such change is provided to a participant who elects to change a form of payment.  
     
  Commencement or recommencement of active participation or status as an Eligible Employee following any Separation from Service or other interruption of employment shall be on such terms and under such conditions as the Committee may, in its discretion, provide.  
     
   ARTICLE IV   
       
   CALCULATION OF BENEFITS   
     
   4.1                                       Benefits under this Plan   
     
  A Participant s benefits under this Plan shall be calculated as provided in this Article IV, provided, however, that a Participant s eligibility to receive a benefit hereunder shall be subject to succeeding provisions of this Plan.  
     
   4.2                                       Benefit Formula   
     
  A Participant s benefit payable under this Plan, expressed in the form of an annual benefit payable commencing at the Participant s Normal Retirement Age and payable for the lifetime of the Participant, shall be equal to (a) minus (b) below where  
     
  C-6    

(a)                                     equals the benefit payable on the Participant s Normal Retirement Date determined in accordance with the terms of the Qualified Pension Plan (except that for purposes of this Subsection 4.2(a), the Participant s Compensation shall be determined under this Plan), and  
     
  (b)                                     equals the benefit payable on the Participant s Normal Retirement Date determined in accordance with the terms of the Qualified Pension Plan.  
     
   4.3                                       Offset of Benefit under the 20th Century Industries Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan   
     
  If a Participant under this Plan is entitled to receive benefits under the 20th Century Industries Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  SERP ), such Participant s benefit under this Plan shall be offset, but not below zero (0) by an amount equal to the actuarial equivalent of the SERP benefit.  
     
   4.4                                       Benefit Commencement at Early Retirement Date   
     
  If a Participant s benefit under this Plan commences to be paid on a Participant s Early Retirement Date, the benefit calculated as provided in Section 4.2 shall be reduced to reflect the longer anticipated period of time that such benefit is to be paid, and such reduction shall be determined in the same manner as a reduction is computed under the Qualified Pension Plan in the case of a Participant who retires under such Qualified Pension Plan at an Early Retirement Date.  
     
   ARTICLE V   
       
   VESTING OF BENEFITS   
     
  A Participant s interest in his benefit under this Plan shall become vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the provisions of the Qualified Pension Plan (including provisions of the Qualified Pension Plan relating to vesting upon termination, partial termination or other vesting event under such plan). Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article V, in the event of a Participant s Separation of Service following a  Change in Control  as such term is defined from time to time in the 20th Century Industries Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, a Participant s interest in his or her benefits under the Plan shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable.  
     
   ARTICLE VI   
       
   PAYMENT OF BENEFITS   
     
   6.1                                       Date of Payment   
     
  Except as otherwise provided in Article VII and subject to the provisions of Article V, a Participant s benefit hereunder, payable on account of a Separation from Service shall commence to be paid as soon as practicable following the later of (a) the date of such  
     
  C-7    

Separation from Service or (b) the earlier of (i) the date on which the Participant attains      (or would have attained if the Participant then were in active employment) Early Retirement Date, or (ii) the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.  
     
   6.2                                       Form of Payment   
     
  (a)                                      Single Life Annuity   . The normal form of payment under the Plan for a Participant who is not married on the date of commencement of his or her benefits hereunder shall be a single life annuity providing monthly payments for the life of the Participant, and under which all benefit payments cease as of the date of death of the Participant.  
     
  (b)                                      Joint and Survivor Annuity   . The normal form of benefit payable to a Participant who is lawfully married to a spouse on the date of commencement of his or her benefits hereunder shall be an actuarially equivalent fifty percent (50%) joint and survivor annuity, providing reduced monthly payments during such Participant s life, and providing continued monthly payments after the Participant s death to the spouse to whom the participant is married on the date of his or her commencement of benefits hereunder. Each such continued monthly payments payable to the surviving spouse shall be fifty percent (50%) of the monthly payment amount payable during the Participant s lifetime. The reduction in the Participant s monthly benefits shall be determined by application of the same      reduction factors as are applied for purposes of determining such reduction under the Qualified Pension Plan. Continuing payments to a surviving spouse shall continue during the life of the surviving spouse and shall cease on the date of death of such surviving spouse.  
     
  (c)                                      Whenever, under this Plan it becomes necessary to determine the actuarial equivalence of one or more forms of benefits, such determination shall be made by application of such actuarial factors and rates as would then be applied for such purpose under the Qualified Pension Plan.  
     
   ARTICLE VII   
       
   DEATH AND DISABILITY BENEFITS   
     
   7.1                                       Death Benefit   
     
  In the event of the death of a Participant prior to commencement of benefit payments hereunder, a death benefit shall be payable to the spouse to whom such Participant is lawfully married on the date of the Participant s death. Such benefit shall consist of monthly payments, each of which is equal to the monthly amount that would have been paid to such spouse (a) had the Participant s Separation from Service occurred on the later of (i) the Participant s date of death, or (ii) the earlier of the Participant s Early Retirement Date or Normal Retirement Date, (b) had the Participant s benefit commenced to be paid as the joint and survivor annuity described in Section 6.2, and (c) had the Participant s death occurred immediately after such commencement of benefits. Such death benefit  
     
  C-8    

shall begin to be paid as soon as practicable after the latest of (a) the Participant s date of death, (b) the earlier of the Participant s Early Retirement Date or Normal Retirement      Date, and (c) the date on which such benefit applications, releases, and other documents as the Committee may require to be given are received by the Committee in form and manner satisfactory to the Committee. Death benefit payments shall cease as of the date of death of the spouse receiving such payments. No benefit shall be payable to any person other than a spouse described in the first sentence of this Section 7.1. This Plan shall not be required to give effect to disclaimers, whether made under state or federal law. This Section 7.1 shall not apply in the case of the death of a Participant after payments have commenced to be made with respect to such Participant.  
     
   7.2                                       Disability Benefit   
     
  If a Participant incurs a Total and Permanent Disability, as such term is defined from time to time under Qualified Pension Plan, prior to commencement of benefits hereunder and such Participant at the date of the occurrence of such Total and Permanent Disability is an Eligible Employee, such Participant shall continue to accrue benefits under this Plan in the same manner as provided in the Qualified Plan during the continuation of such Total      and Permanent Disability, but not beyond the date determined under the Qualified Pension Plan. Such Participant shall be entitled to receive his/her benefit under this Plan upon attaining his/her Normal Retirement Date.  
     
   ARTICLE VIII   
       
   RIGHT TO TERMINATE OR MODIFY PLAN   
     
  By action of its Board of Directors, 20th Century Industries may modify or terminate this Plan without further liability to any Eligible Employee or former employee or any other person. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article VIII, except as expressly required by law, this Plan may not be modified or terminated as to any Participant in a manner that adversely affects the payment of benefits theretofore accrued by such Participant to the extent such benefits have become vested, except that in the event of the termination of the Plan as to all Participants, this Plan may in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors be modified to accelerate payment of benefits to Participants.  
     
   ARTICLE IX   
       
   NO ASSIGNMENT, ETC.   
     
  Benefits under this Plan may not be assigned or alienated and shall not be subject to the claims of any creditor. A Participant shall not be permitted to borrow under the Plan, nor shall a Participant be permitted to pledge or otherwise use his benefits hereunder as security for any loan or other obligation. No payments shall be made to any person or persons other than expressly provided herein, or on any date or dates other than as expressly provided herein.  
     
  C-9    

It is each Participant s sole responsibility to obtain such consents, and to take such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate in connection with participation in this Plan, including but not limited to obtaining spousal or other consents, as may be necessary or appropriate to reflect marital property, support, or other obligations arising under contract, order or by operation of law.  
     
   ARTICLE X   
       
   THE COMMITTEE   
     
  (a)                                     The appointment, removal and resignation of members of the Committee shall be governed by the Board of Directors of 20th Century Industries. Subject to change by the said Board, the membership of the Committee shall be the same as the membership of the Committee of the Qualified Pension Plan.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee shall have authority to oversee the management and administration of the Plan, and in connection therewith is authorized in its sole discretion to make, amend and rescind such rules as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan, to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan and to correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent that the Committee deems desirable to carry the Plan into effect. The powers and duties of the Committee shall include without limitation, the following:  
     
  (i)                                         Resolving all questions relating to the eligibility of select management and highly compensated employees to become Participants; and  
     
  (ii)                                      Resolving all questions regarding payment of benefits under the Plan and other questions regarding plan participation.  
     
  Any action taken or determination made by the Committee shall be conclusive on all parties. The exercise of or failure to exercise any discretion reserved to the Committee to grant or deny any benefit to a Participant or other person under the Plan shall in no way require the Committee or any person acting on behalf thereof, to similarly exercise or fail to exercise such discretion with respect to any other Participant.  
     
   ARTICLE XI   
       
   RELEASE   
     
  As a condition to making any payment under the Plan, or to giving effect to any election or other action under the Plan by any Participant or any other person, the Plan Administrator may require such consents or releases as it determines to be appropriate, and further may require any such designation, election or other action to be in writing, in a prescribed form and to be filed with the Committee in a manner prescribed by the Committee. In the event the Committee determines, in  
     
  C-10    

its discretion, that multiple conflicting claims may be made as to all or a part of a benefit accrued hereunder by a Participant, the Committee may delay the making of any payment until such conflict or multiplicity of claims is resolved.  
     
   ARTICLE XII   
       
   NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT   
     
  This Plan shall not be deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or to interfere with the right of the Company to discharge or retire any employee at any time, nor shall this Plan interfere with the right of the Company to establish the terms and conditions of employment of any employee.  
     
   ARTICLE XIII   
       
   COMPANY S OBLIGATION TO PAY BENEFITS   
     
  Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company, and any Employee, an Employee s spouse or former spouse or any other person. Funds to provide benefits under the provisions of this Plan shall continue for all purposes to be a part of the general funds of the Company. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under this Plan such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article XIII, assets may be transferred by the Company to a trust constituting a  rabbi trust,  for the purpose of providing benefits described herein.  
     
   ARTICLE XIV   
       
   CLAIM REVIEW PROCEDURE   
     
  (a)                                     A person who believes that he or she has not received all payments to which he or she is entitled under the terms of this Plan may submit a claim therefor. Within ninety (90) days following receipt of a claim for benefits under this Plan, and all necessary documents and information, the Committee or its authorized delegate      reviewing the claim shall, if the claim is not approved, furnish the claimant with written notice of the decision rendered with respect to the application.  
     
  (b)                                     The written notice contemplated in (a) above shall set forth:  
     
  (i)                                         the specific reasons for the denial, with reference to the Plan provisions upon which the denial is based;  
     
  (ii)                                      a description of any additional information or material necessary for perfection of the application (together with an explanation why the material or information is necessary); and  
     
  C-11    

(iii)                                   an explanation of the Plan s claim review procedure.  
     
  (c)                                      A claimant who wishes to contest the denial of his claim for benefits or to contest the amount of benefits payable to him shall follow the procedures for an appeal of benefits as set forth below, and shall exhaust such administrative procedures prior to seeking any other form of relief.  
     
  (d)                                     A claimant who does not agree with the decision rendered as provided above in this Article XIV with respect to his application may appeal the decision to the Committee. The appeal shall be made, in writing, within sixty (60) days after the date of notice of such decision with respect to the application. If the application has neither been approved nor denied within the ninety-day (90) period provided in (a) above, then the appeal shall be made within sixty (60) days after the expiration of the ninety-day (90) period.  
     
  (e)                                      The claimant may request that his application be given full and fair review by the Committee. The claimant may review all pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing in connection with the appeal. The decision of the Committee shall be made promptly, and not later than sixty (60) days after the Committee s receipt of a request for review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision shall be rendered as soon as possible, but not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of a request for review. The decision by the Committee on review shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant with specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.  
     
   ARTICLE XV   
       
   ARBITRATION   
     
  A claimant may contest the Committee s denial of his or her appeal only by submitting the matter to arbitration. In such event, the claimant and the Committee shall select an arbitrator from a list of names supplied by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with such Association s procedures for selection of arbitrators, and the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of such Association. The arbitrator s authority shall be limited to the affirmance or reversal of the Committee s denial of the appeal, and the arbitrator shall have no power to alter, add to or subtract from any provision of this Plan. Except as otherwise required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the arbitrator s decision shall be final and binding on all parties, if warranted on the record and reasonably based on applicable law and the provisions of this Plan.  
     
  C-12    

ARTICLE XVI   
       
   MISCELLANEOUS   
     
   16.1                                Successor and Assigns   
     
  The Plan shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and all Participants.  
     
   16.2                                Notices   
     
  Any notice or other communication required or permitted under the Plan shall be in writing, and if directed to the Company shall be sent to the Committee or its authorized      delegate, and if directed to a Participant shall be sent to such Participant at his last known address as it appears on the records of the Company.  
     
   16.3                                Limitations on Liability   
     
  (a)                                     The Company does not warrant any tax benefit nor any financial benefit under the Plan. Without limitation to the foregoing, the Company and its officers, employees and agents shall be held harmless by the Participant or Beneficiary from, and shall not be subject to any liability on account of, the federal or state or local income tax consequences, or any other consequences of any deferrals or credits with respect to Participants under the Plan.  
     
  (b)                                     The Company, its officers, employees, and agents shall be held harmless by the Participant from, and shall not be subject to any liability hereunder for, all acts performed in good faith.  
     
   16.4                                Certain Small Benefits   
     
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the case of a Participant whose annual benefit hereunder is not in excess of $2,000, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, distribute an amount equal to the actuarial equivalent value of future anticipated benefits, determined in accordance with such actuarial factors and interest rate assumptions utilized from time to time under the Qualified Pension Plan for purposes of making lump sum payments thereunder.  
     
   16.5                                Governing Law   
     
  This Plan is subject to the laws of the State of California, to the extent not preempted by ERISA.  
     
  C-13    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,    20th Century Industries has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly authorized officers, effective as of the Effective Date set forth hereinabove.  

20TH CENTURY INDUSTRIES            

By:       

By:       

C-14    

</EX-10.69>

<EX-10.70>
 5
 a2212976zex-10_70.htm
 EX-10.70

Exhibit 10.70   
     
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
     
  SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN  
     
  (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008)  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Page            

Article 1       
 
  Definitions       
 
  1           

Article 2       
 
  Participation       
 
  4           

Article 3       
 
  Retirement and Other Benefits       
 
  5           

Article 4       
 
  Supplemental Retirement Income       
 
  6           

Article 5       
 
  Vesting       
 
  8           

Article 6       
 
  Modes of Benefit Payment       
 
  9           

Article 7       
 
  Death Benefits       
 
  10           

Article 8       
 
  Liability of the Company       
 
  11           

Article 9       
 
  Administration of the Plan       
 
  12           

Article 10       
 
  Amendment or Termination of the   Plan       
 
  14           

Article 11       
 
  General Provisions       
 
  15              
     
  i    

PREAMBLE  
     
  The American International Group, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ) shall become effective on January 1, 2008, and shall constitute an amendment, restatement and continuation of the  American International Group, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan  as amended and in effect on December 31, 2007.  
     
  The purpose of the Plan is to provide supplemental retirement income benefits to designated executives and key employees of the Employers.  
     
  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  

ARTICLE 1  
     
   DEFINITIONS   
     
  The following words and phrases as used herein shall have the following meanings, and the masculine, feminine and neuter gender shall be deemed to include the others and the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa, when appropriate, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:  
     
  1.1                                    Affiliated Employer  means any member of the same controlled group of corporations as the Company or an Employer as determined under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.  
     
  1.2                                    Average Final Compensation  means the Participant s Average Final Compensation as determined under the Qualified Plan divided by twelve (12).  
     
  1.3                                    Board of Directors  means the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time.  
     
  1.4                                    Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  
     
  1.5                                    Committee  means the Stock Option and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc.  
     
  1.6                                    Company  means American International Group, Inc.  
     
  1.7                                    Disability  means a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 12 months during which a Participant qualifies for income replacement benefits under the Participating Employer s long-term disability plan for at least 3 months, or, if a Participant does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.  
     
  1.8                                    Early Retirement Date  means the Participant s termination of employment (i) after attaining age 60 and earning 5 or more Years of Service or (ii) unless the Committee determines otherwise in its sole discretion, after attaining age 55 with 10 or more years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan).  
     
  1.9                                    Effective Date  of this amended and restated Plan means [January 1, 2008]. The original effective date of the Plan is July 1, 1986.  
     
  1.10                             Employee  means a person who is classified as an employee on the payroll records of an Employer. Individuals not classified as employees on the payroll records of an Employer for a particular period shall not be considered Employees for such period even if a      court of administrative agency subsequently determines that such individuals were common law employees of the Employer during such period.  

1.11                             Employer  means the Company and any other company as defined in Sections 2.06 and 8.01 of the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan.  
     
  1.12                             Excess Retirement Income  means the benefit provided under the American International Group, Inc. Excess Retirement Income Plan, as may be amended from time to time.  
     
  1.13                             Excess Retirement Income Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity  means the benefit payable to the Participant s Surviving Spouse under the Excess Retirement Income Plan.  
     
  1.14                             Executive  means any person, including an officer, employed on a regular, full-time, salaried basis by an Employer.  
     
  1.15                             Normal Form  means a single life annuity payable for the life of the Participant and ending with the last monthly payment made prior to the Participant s death.  
     
  1.16                             Normal Retirement Date  means the Participant s Normal Retirement Date as determined under the terms of the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.17                             Participant  means an Employee who has become a Participant pursuant to Article 2 of the Plan.  
     
  1.18                             Plan  means the American International Group, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as herein set forth, and as it may hereafter be amended from time to time.  
     
  1.19                             Postponed Retirement Date  means the date the Participant retires after his Normal Retirement Date as determined under the terms of the Qualified Plan.  
     
  1.20                             Qualified Plan  means the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time.  
     
  1.21                             Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity  means the benefit paid to a Participant s surviving spouse under the Qualified Plan upon the Participant s death prior to his annuity commencement date.  
     
  1.22                             Qualified Plan Retirement Income  means the benefit paid to a Participant under the Qualified Plan and includes retirement income payable upon Normal Retirement, Early Retirement or Postponed Retirement, by reason of disability or to an Employee who terminates employment with a vested interest in his Qualified Plan retirement income.  
     
  1.23                             Retirement Income  means the retirement benefits provided to Participants and their joint or contingent annuitants in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Plan and shall include the Supplemental Retirement Income payable pursuant to Article 4.  
     
  1.24                             Separation from Service  means the Participant has terminated employment (other than by death or Disability) with the Company and each Affiliated Employer, subject to the following:  
     
  2    

(a)                                     For this purpose, the employment relationship is treated as continuing intact while the individual is on military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence (such as temporary employment by the government) if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or, if longer, so long as the individual s right to reemployment with the Company or an Affiliated Employer is provided either by statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months and the individual s right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such six-month period.  
     
  (b)                                     The determination of whether a Participant has terminated employment shall be determined based on the facts and circumstances in accordance with the rules set forth in Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder.  
     
  1.25                             Social Security Benefit  shall mean the primary insurance benefit which the Participant is entitled to receive under Title II of the Social Security Act as in effect on the date he retires or otherwise terminates employment, or would be entitled to receive if he did not disqualify himself from receiving the same by entering into covered employment or otherwise, but excluding any increase in the benefit levels payable under Title II of the Social Security Act or any increase in the wage base under such Title if such increase takes place after such Participant s retirement or other termination of employment. If the Participant has not reached age 65, his Social Security Benefit will be computed assuming he has reached age 65 on the date of his retirement or other termination of employment and assuming that his salary remained level to age 65 at his last rate of salary.  
     
  1.26                             Specified Employee  means a Participant who, as of the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, is a key employee of the Company or an Employer. For purposes of this Plan, a Participant is a key employee if the Participant meets the requirements of Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii), or (iii) applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the December 31st of a Plan Year. If a Participant is a key employee as of such December 31st, the Participant is treated as a key employee for purposes of this Plan for the entire 12-month period beginning on the next following April 1st.  
     
  1.27                             Surviving Spouse  means a spouse to whom the Participant is lawfully married on the date of the Participant s death.  
     
  1.28                             Years of Service or Fraction Thereof  means a continuous 12-month period or fraction thereof for each full month of active employment commencing on the Participant s date of hire or on the anniversary thereof.  
     
  3    

ARTICLE 2  
     
   PARTICIPATION   
     
  The Company shall designate from time to time the Executives who shall become Participants in the Plan upon giving consideration to the recommendations of the President and Chief Executive Officer. Executives who were Participants in the Plan prior to January 1, 2008 shall continue in the Plan as Participants as of the Effective Date.  
     
  4    

ARTICLE 3  
     
   RETIREMENT AND OTHER BENEFITS   
     
  3.1                                   Normal Retirement, Postponed Retirement and Disability Retirement. A Participant in the Plan who has a Separation from Service on his Normal or Postponed Retirement Date shall be entitled to receive the Supplemental Normal or Postponed Retirement Income, as applicable, as described in Article 4. If a Participant incurs a Disability, the Participant shall be entitled to receive the Supplemental Disability Retirement Income described in Section 4.4.  
     
  3.2                                   Early Retirement. If a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement (other than by death or by incurring a Disability) on or after age 60 and with 5 Years of Service, a Supplemental Early Retirement Income will be payable in accordance with Section 4.2. If a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement (other than by death or incurring a Disability), on or after age 55 with 10 or more years of Credited Service (as defined in the Qualified Plan), a Supplemental Retirement Income will be payable in accordance with Section 4.2 only if the Committee approves the payment of such benefit for such Participant.  
     
  3.3                                   Death. If such a Participant dies prior to the commencement of benefits such that a death benefit is payable under the terms of the Qualified Plan to his surviving Spouse, a death benefit shall be payable in accordance with Section 7.1.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE 4  
     
   SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT INCOME   
     
  4.1                                   Subject to Section 6.3, the Supplemental Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant, commencing on his Normal Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)                                     2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof for each full month of active employment, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation;  
     
  (b)                                     the monthly benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a life annuity, the monthly Excess Retirement Income Plan benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, the monthly Social Security Benefit, any payments from a qualified pension plan of a prior employer and, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  4.2                                   Subject to Section 6.3, if a Participant who is eligible for Early Retirement under Section 3.2 has a Separation from Service prior to his Normal Retirement Date (other than by death or disability), a Supplemental Early Retirement Income shall be payable under this Plan at such Early Retirement Date. Such Supplemental Early Retirement Income payable in the form of a life annuity shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)                                     2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation and reduced:  
     
  (i)                                         for Participants who have attained age 60 and have 30 or more Years of Service, by 3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65;  
     
  (ii)                                      for Participants who have attained age 60 with at least 25 but not 30 or more Years of Service, by 4% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65;  
     
  (iii)                                   for all other Participants who have 10 or more Years of Credited Service (as defined under the Qualified Plan), by 5% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65; or  
     
  (iv)                                  for all other Participants who have less than 10 Years of Credited Service (as defined under the Qualified Plan), by 6-2/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65.  
     
  (b)                                     the monthly benefit payable at Early Retirement Date under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a life annuity, the monthly Excess Retirement Income Plan benefit payable at Early Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, the monthly  
     
  6    

Social Security Benefit, any payments from a qualified pension plan of a prior employer and, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such Early Retirement Date).  
     
  For purposes of (b) above, if the Participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the monthly benefit payable at Normal Retirement under the Qualified Plan in the form of a life annuity, reduced by 6-2/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) by which retirement precedes age 65, shall be offset against the amount computed under (a) above.  
     
  For purposes of (b) above, the amount of the Participant s monthly Social Security Benefit shall be reduced by 5% for each year and a fraction thereof for each full month by which retirement precedes age 65.  
     
  4.3                                   Subject to Section 6.3, the Supplemental Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant, commencing on his Postponed Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)                                     2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof for each full month of active employment, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation;  
     
  (b)                                     the monthly benefit payable at Postponed Retirement Date under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a life annuity, the monthly Excess Retirement Income Plan benefit payable at Postponed Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, the monthly Social Security Benefit payable at Postponed Retirement Date, any payments from a qualified pension plan of a prior employer and, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  4.4                                   If an eligible Participant is determined to have incurred a Disability, a Supplemental Disability Retirement Income shall be payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan on such Participant s Normal Retirement Date. The Supplemental Disability Retirement Income payable in the form of a life annuity shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) below:  
     
  (a)                                     2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof for each full month of active employment, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation;  
     
  (b)                                     the monthly benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date under the terms of the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a life annuity, the monthly Excess Retirement Income Plan benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity and, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  7    

ARTICLE 5  
     
   VESTING   
     
  A Participant shall have a nonforfeitable right to Supplemental Retirement Income under this Plan at such time that he attains his Normal Retirement Date. In addition, a Participant shall have a nonforfeitable right to Supplemental Retirement Income if he is eligible for Early Retirement pursuant to Section 3.2.  
     
  A Participant who terminates employment prior to attaining his Early or Normal Retirement Date, other than by reason of Disability (as provided for in Section 4.4), shall have no rights or claims to Retirement Income under this Plan as of his date of termination. In the case of death, a Participant s Surviving Spouse may have a claim for benefits in accordance with Article 3 and Article 7.  
     
  8    

ARTICLE 6  
     
   MODES OF BENEFIT PAYMENT   
     
  6.1          Except as provided in Section 6.2, any Supplemental Retirement Income payable under this Plan shall be paid in the Normal Form. If a Participant dies prior to the commencement of benefits under the Plan, no benefits will be payable under the Plan except as specified in Article 7.  
     
  6.2          In lieu of the Normal Form of Payment, a Participant may elect payment in an optional form of payment to the extent provided herein. The optional forms of benefits under the Plan shall include any of the annuity optional forms of benefits available under the Qualified Plan except for the Social Security Adjustment Option. Optional forms of benefit shall be actuarially equivalent to the Normal Form of benefit determined in accordance with the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan as of the date payment is to be made.  
     
  A Participant may elect an optional form of payment on a form provided by the Committee for such purpose. A Participant who has elected an annuity form of payment (or for whom the Normal Form of payment is in effect) may, at any time prior to Separation from Service or Disability, as applicable, elect another form of annuity payment available under the Qualified Plan provided that such other form of payment is actuarially equivalent based on the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan as of the date payment is to be made. In the absence of any such an election, payment shall be made in the Normal Form.  
     
  6.3          Except as hereinafter provided, payment of Supplemental Retirement Income under this Plan shall commence within 90 days after the Participant incurs a Separation from Service with the Employer and each Affiliated Employer by reason of Normal, Early or Postponed Retirement. If the Participant terminates employment by reason of Disability Retirement, payment of Supplemental Retirement Income shall commence on the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. Provided further that if the Participant is a Specified Employee when such Participant incurs a Separation from Service, such Participant s Supplemental Retirement Income (except in the case of Disability Retirement) shall commence to be paid six months after the Participant separates from service. To the extent that monthly payments are delayed by reason of the foregoing six-month delay, such delayed monthly payments shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum amount when his Supplemental Retirement Income commences adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%.  
     
  9    

ARTICLE 7  
     
   DEATH BENEFITS   
     
  7.1          In the case of a Participant who dies in employment with 5 or more Years of Service, or retires on a Normal, Early, Postponed or Disability Retirement Date and dies prior to his annuity commencement date, if a Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity is payable to such Participant s Surviving Spouse, a Supplemental Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable to the Surviving Spouse under this Plan. The monthly amount of the Supplemental Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity payable to the Surviving Spouse shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)           40% of the amount that the Participant had accrued pursuant to Section 4.1(a) as of the date of death reduced by 2% for each year (or fraction thereof for each full month) that the Surviving Spouse is more than five (5) years younger than the Participant;  
     
  (b)           the sum of (i) the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity and Excess Retirement Income Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity payable to the Surviving Spouse under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof and Excess Retirement Income Plan as of the date of death or, if later, as of the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the date the Participant would have attained age 55 and (ii) in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, benefits accrued by the Participant under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer and payable by reason of his death provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  7.2          Any Supplemental Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable over the lifetime of the Surviving Spouse in monthly installments commencing within 90 days after the Participant s date of death or, if later, within 90 days after the date the Participant would have attained age 55 and ceasing with the last monthly payment made prior to the Surviving Spouse s death.  
     
  7.3          Upon the death of a Participant who terminated from employment prior to his Normal, Early, Postponed or Disability Retirement Date, no Supplemental Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be payable to such Participant s Surviving Spouse under this Plan. Except as provided in Article 6 with respect to a Participant who has retired and commenced receiving a benefit in a form that provides for continuation after the Participant s death, no other death benefits shall be payable from the Plan.  
     
  10    

ARTICLE 8  
     
   LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY   
     
  8.1          The benefits of this Plan shall be paid by the Employer and shall not be funded prior to the time paid to the Participant, Surviving Spouse or joint or contingent annuitant designated by the Participant, unless and except as expressly provided otherwise by the Company.  
     
  8.2          A Participant who is vested in a benefit under this Plan shall be an unsecured creditor of the Employer as to the payment of any benefit under this Plan.  
     
  11    

ARTICLE 9  
     
   ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN   
     
  9.1          Except for the functions reserved to the Company or the Board of Directors of the Company, the administration of the Plan shall be the responsibility of the Committee.  
     
  9.2          The Committee shall have the power and the duty to take all actions and to make all decisions necessary or proper to carry out the Plan. The determination of the Committee as to any question involving the general administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding. Any discretionary actions to be taken under the Plan by the Committee shall be uniform in their nature and applicable to all persons similarly situated. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the following powers and duties:  
     
  (a)           To furnish to all Participants, upon request, copies of the Plan; and to require any person to furnish such information as it may request for the purpose of the proper administration of the Plan as a condition to receiving any benefits under the Plan;  
     
  (b)           To make and enforce such rules and regulations and prescribe the use of such forms as it shall deem necessary for the efficient administration of the Plan;  
     
  (c)           To interpret the Plan, and to resolve ambiguities, inconsistencies and omissions, which findings shall be binding, final and conclusive;  
     
  (d)           To decide on questions concerning the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan;  
     
  (e)           To determine the amount of benefits which shall be payable to any person in accordance with the provisions of the Plan; and to provide a full and fair review to any Participant whose claim for benefits has been denied in whole or in part;  
     
  (f)            The power to designate a person who may or may not be a member of the Committee as Plan  Administrator  for the purpose of ERISA; if the Committee does not so designate an Administrator, the Committee shall be the Plan Administrator;  
     
  (g)           To allocate any such powers and duties to or among individual members of the Committee; and  
     
  (h)           To designate persons other than Committee members to carry out any duty or power which would otherwise be a responsibility of the Committee or Administrator, under the terms of the Plan.  
     
  9.3          To the extent permitted by law, the Committee and any person to whom it may delegate any duty or power in connection with administering the Plan, the Employer, and the officers and directors thereof, shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon, and shall be fully protected in any action taken or suffered by them in good faith in the reliance upon, any actuary,      counsel , accountant, other specialist, or other person selected by the Committee, or in reliance upon any tables, valuations, certificates, opinions or reports which shall be furnished by any of  
     
  12    

them. Further, to the extent permitted by law, no member of the Committee, nor the Employer, nor the officers or directors thereof, shall be liable for any neglect, omission or wrongdoing of any other members of the Committee, agent, officer or employee of an Employer. Any person claiming under the Plan shall look solely to the Employer for redress.  
     
  9.4          All expenses incurred prior to the termination of the Plan that shall arise in connection with the administration of the Plan, including, but not limited to administrative expenses, proper charges and disbursements, compensation and other expenses and charges of any actuary, counsel, accountant, specialist, or other person who shall be employed by the Committee in connection with the administration thereof, shall be paid by the Employer.  
     
  13    

ARTICLE 10  
     
   AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN   
     
  10.1        The Board of Directors shall have the power to suspend or terminate this Plan in whole or in part at any time, and from time to time to extend, modify, amend, revise, or terminate this Plan in such respects as the Board of Directors by resolution may deem advisable; provided that no such extension, modification, amendment, revision, or termination shall deprive a Participant or any beneficiary designated by a Participant of the vested portion of any benefit under this Plan.  
     
  14    

ARTICLE 11  
     
   GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  11.1        This Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Employer and any Employee or other person whether or not in the employ of the Employer, nor shall anything herein contained be deemed to give any Employee or other person whether or not in the employ of the Employer any right to be retained in the employ of the Employer, or to interfere with the right of the Employer to discharge any Employee at any time and to treat him without any regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him as a Participant of the Plan.  
     
  11.2        Except as may otherwise be required by law, no distribution or payment under the Plan to any Participant, beneficiary, or joint or contingent annuitant, shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, whether voluntary or involuntary, and any attempt to so anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge the same shall be void; nor shall any such distribution or payment be in any way liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any person entitled to such distribution or payment. If any Participant, beneficiary, or joint or contingent annuitant is adjudicated bankrupt or purports to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any such distribution or payment, voluntarily or involuntarily, the Committee, in its discretion, may cancel such distribution or payment or may hold or cause to be held or applied such distribution or payment or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such Participant, beneficiary, or joint or contingent annuitant in such manner as the Committee shall direct.  
     
  11.3        If the Employer determines that any person entitled to payments under the Plan is an infant or incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability, it may cause all payments thereafter becoming due to such person to be made to any other person for his benefit, without responsibility to follow application of amounts so paid. Payments made pursuant to this provision shall completely discharge the Plan, the Employer and the Committee.  
     
  11.4        The Employer shall be the sole source of benefits under this Plan, and each Employee, Participant, joint or contingent annuitant, beneficiary, or any other person who shall claim the right to any payment or benefit under this Plan shall be entitled to look only to the Employer for payment of benefits.  
     
  11.5        If the Employer is unable to make payment to any Participant or other person to whom a payment is due under the Plan because it cannot ascertain the identity or whereabouts of such Participant or other person after reasonable efforts have been made to identify or locate such person (including a notice of the payment so due mailed to the last known address of such Participant or other person shown on the records of the Employer), such payment and all subsequent payments otherwise due to such Participant or other person shall be forfeited twenty-four (24) months after the date such payment first became due; provided, however, that such payment and any subsequent payments shall be reinstated retroactively, no later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the Participant or person is identified or located.  
     
  15    

11.6        The Employer shall have the right to deduct from each payment made under the Plan any amount required to satisfy its obligation to withhold federal, state and local taxes, if any.  
     
  11.7        The provisions of the Plan shall be construed, administered and governed under applicable Federal laws and the laws of the State of New York.  
     
  16    

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.71>
 6
 a2212976zex-10_71.htm
 EX-10.71

Exhibit 10.71   
       
   Amendment  to the  American International Group, Inc.  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan  (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008)   
     
  Pursuant to the authority reserved in Article 10 of the American International Group, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ), as amended to date, said Plan is hereby further amended, effective as of January 1, 2008, as follows:  
     
  1.                                          Section 1.28 of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following:  
     
   In the case of a Participant who was employed by HSB Group, Inc., American General Corporation or 21st Century Industries, as applicable, as of the date of acquisition of such corporation by American International Group, Inc., such Participant s Years of Service or Fractions Thereof shall be measured from the Participant s initial date of hire with the acquired corporation excluding any periods while not an employee of the acquired corporation.   
     
  2.                                          Section 3.3 of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:  
     
   3.3        Death. If such a Participant dies prior to the commencement of benefits such that a death benefit is payable under the terms of the Qualified Plan to his surviving Spouse, a death benefit shall be payable in accordance with Section 7.1; provided, however, that no death benefit is payable if the Participant dies after termination of employment prior to his Early, Normal, Postponed or Disability Retirement Date.   
     
  3.                                          Article 4 of the Plan is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:  
     
   4.1        Subject to Section 6.3, the Supplemental Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant, commencing on his Normal Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)           2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof for each full month of active employment, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation;  
     
  (b)           (i)            the monthly benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (ii)           the monthly Excess Retirement Income benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (iii)          the monthly Social Security Benefit;  

(iv)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity under the Restoration Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan (the  AG Restoration Plan ) which was cashed out to the Participant from the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  AG SERP ) or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement (an  AG SERA ), if any;  
     
  (v)           the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.1(b)(v), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan) under the AG SERP or an AG SERA whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date, including an amount which was cashed out to the Participant from the AG SERP or AG SERA, if any;  
     
  (vi)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 15-year certain annuity under the 21st Century Insurance Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ( 21st Century SERP ) (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.1(b)(vi), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to a Participant from the 21st Century SERP, if any; and  
     
  (vii)         in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  4.2          Subject to Section 6.3, if a Participant who is eligible for Early Retirement under Section 3.2 has a Separation from Service prior to his Normal Retirement Date (other than by death or disability), a Supplemental Early Retirement Income shall be payable under this Plan at such Early Retirement Date. Such Supplemental Early Retirement Income payable in the form of a life annuity shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)           2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation and reduced:  
     
  (i)            for Participants who have attained age 60 and have 30 or more Years of Service, by 3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65;  
     
  (ii)           for Participants who have attained age 60 with at least 25 but not 30 or more Years of Service, by 4% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65;  
     
  (iii)          for all other Participants who have 10 or more Years of Credited Service (as defined under the Qualified Plan), by 5% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65; or  
     
  2    

(iv)          for all other Participants who have less than 10 Years of Credited Service (as defined under the Qualified Plan), by 6-2/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that retirement precedes age 65.  
     
  (b)           (i)            the monthly benefit payable at Early Retirement Date under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (ii)           the monthly Excess Retirement Income benefit payable at Early Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (iii)          the monthly Social Security Benefit;  
     
  (iv)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity under the Restoration Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan (the  AG Restoration Plan ) (reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to the Participant from the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  AG SERP ) or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement ( AG SERA ), if any;  
     
  (v)           the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.2(b)(v), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan and reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors under the Qualified Plan) under the AG SERP or an AG SERA whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date, including an amount which was cashed out to the Participant from the AG SERP or AG SERA, if any;  
     
  (vi)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 15-year certain annuity under the 21st Century Insurance Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ( 21st Century SERP ) (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.2(b)(vi), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan and reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to a Participant from the 21st Century SERP, if any; and  
     
  (vii)         in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such Early Retirement Date).  
     
  For purposes of (b)(i), (b)(ii), (b)(iv), (b)(v) and (b)(vi) above, if the Participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the monthly benefit payable at Normal Retirement in the form of a life annuity, reduced by 6-2/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) by which retirement precedes age 65, shall be offset against the amount computed under (a) above.  
     
  3    

For purposes of (b)(iii) above, the amount of the Participant s monthly Social Security Benefit shall be reduced by 5% for each year and a fraction thereof for each full month by which retirement precedes age 65.  
     
  4.3          Subject to Section 6.3, the Supplemental Retirement Income payable to an eligible Participant, commencing on his Postponed Retirement Date in the form of a life annuity, shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) as stated below:  
     
  (a)           2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof for each full month of active employment, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation;  
     
  (b)           (i)            the monthly benefit payable at Postponed Retirement Date under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (ii)           the monthly Excess Retirement Income benefit payable at Postponed Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (iii)          the monthly Social Security Benefit payable at Postponed Retirement Date;  
     
  (iv)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity under the Restoration Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan (the  AG Restoration Plan ) which was cashed out to the Participant from the American General Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  AG SERP ) or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement ( AG SERA ), if any;  
     
  (v)           the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.3(b)(v), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan) under the AG SERP or an AG SERA whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date, including an amount which was cashed out to the Participant from the AG SERP or AG SERA, if any;  
     
  (vi)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 15-year certain annuity under the 21st Century Insurance Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ( 21st Century SERP ) (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.3(b)(vi), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to a Participant from the 21st Century SERP, if any; and  
     
  (vii)         in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  4    

4.4          If an eligible Participant is determined to have incurred a Disability, a Supplemental Disability Retirement Income shall be payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan on such Participant s Normal Retirement Date. The Supplemental Disability Retirement Income payable in the form of a life annuity shall be equal to the difference between (a) and (b) below:  
     
  (a)           2.4% of Average Final Compensation for each Year of Service or Fraction Thereof for each full month of active employment, not in excess of 60% of Average Final Compensation;  
     
  (b)           (i)                                         the monthly benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date under the terms of the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (ii)                                      the monthly Excess Retirement Income benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity;  
     
  (iii)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity under the Restoration Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan (the  AG Restoration Plan ) which was cashed out to the Participant from the American General Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  AG SERP ) or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement ( AG SERA ), if any;  
     
  (iv)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.4(b)(iv), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan) under the AG SERP or an AG SERA whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date, including an amount which was cashed out to the Participant from the AG SERP or AG SERA, if any;  
     
  (v)           the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 15-year certain annuity under the 21st Century Insurance Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ( 21st Century SERP ) (converted, for purposes of this Section 4.4(b)(v), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to a Participant from the 21st Century SERP, if any; and  
     
  (vi)          in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, any benefits accrued under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).   
     
  4.                                          Article 6 of the Plan is amended by the addition of Section 6.4,  Special Commencement Date Rules for Certain Participants  to read as follows:  
     
   6.4        Special Commencement Date Rules for Certain Participants. This Section 6.4 provides special rules for determining the commencement date of Supplemental  
     
  5    

Retirement Income benefits for certain participants. In the case of a Participant who terminated employment with a vested right to Supplemental Retirement Income prior to January 1, 2008 (other than by reason of Disability Retirement) and who has not commenced receiving such Supplemental Retirement Income benefit by January 1, 2009, such Participant shall commence his or her Supplemental Retirement Income as of March 1, 2009.   
     
  5.                                          Section 7.1(b) of the Plan is amended to read as follows:  
     
   (b)         the sum of  
     
  (i)            the monthly amount of the Qualified Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity and Excess Retirement Income Plan Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity payable to the Surviving Spouse under the Qualified Plan and any predecessor thereof and Excess Retirement Income Plan as of the date of death or, if later, as of the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the date the Participant would have attained age 55;  
     
  (ii)           the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a single life annuity under the Restoration Income Plan for Certain Employees Participating in the Restated American General Retirement Plan (the  AG Restoration Plan ) (reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors applicable under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to the Participant from the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  AG SERP ) or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement (an  AG SERA ), if any;  
     
  (iii)          the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity under the AG SERP or an AG SERA (converted, for purposes of this Section 7.1(b)(iii), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan and reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors applicable under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to the Participant from the AG SERP or AG SERA, if any;  
     
  (iv)          the monthly amount payable under the AG SERP or an AG SERA to the surviving spouse at the date of death or, if later, as of the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the date the Participant would have attained age 55, reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors applicable under the Qualified Plan;  
     
  (v)           the monthly amount payable at Normal Retirement Date in the form of a 15-year certain annuity under the 21st Century Insurance Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ( 21st Century SERP ) (converted, for purposes of this Section 7.1(b)(v), to a life annuity using the actuarial equivalent factors in effect under the Qualified Plan and reduced, if necessary, by the early retirement factors applicable under the Qualified Plan) which was cashed out to the Participant from the 21st Century SERP, if any; and  
     
  6    

(vi)          in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, benefits accrued by the Participant under a foreign deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Employer and payable by reason of his death provided that such benefits are not subject to Code Section 409A (whether or not such benefits are actually paid at such date).  
     
  If the Participant is not eligible for Early Retirement under the Qualified Plan, the amounts computed under Sections 7.1(b)(i) through 7.1(b)(v) shall be the amounts payable at Normal Retirement Date under such Sections but reduced by 6-2/3% for the first 5 years (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that payment precedes age 65 and 3-1/3% for each year (and a fraction thereof for each full month) that payment precedes age 60.   
     
  6.                                          Section 9.2(e) of the Plan is amended to read as follows:  
     
   (e)         To determine the amount of benefits which shall be payable to any person in accordance with the provisions of the Plan; and to provide a full and fair review to any Participant whose claim for benefits has been denied in whole or in part as described in Section 9.5;   
     
  7.                                          Article 9 of the Plan is amended by the addition of Section 9.5,  Claims Procedure  to read as follows:  
     
   9.5        Claims Procedure.  
     
  (a)           In General  
     
  (i)            Application. The claims procedures in Section 9.5(b) of the Plan apply to all claims for benefits of any kind other than claims related to disability benefits that are governed by the claims procedures in Section 9.5(c) of the Plan.  
     
  (ii)           Filing of a Claim. A Participant, beneficiary, or other individual must file a claim for benefits under the Plan by filing a written claim, identified as a claim for benefits, with the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan). In addition, the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) may treat any other written communication received by it as a claim for benefits, even if the writing or communication is not identified as a claim for benefits. In addition, a Participant, beneficiary, or other individuals alleging a violation of or seeking a remedy under any provision of the Act, other applicable law, the terms or the Plan, or asserting any other claims that arise under or in connection with the Plan shall also be subject to and must file any and all such claims under the claims procedure described in this Section 9.5 of the Plan.  
     
  (iii)          Approval of a Claim. A claim is considered approved only if its approval is communicated in writing to a claimant. If a claimant does not receive a response to a claim for benefits within the applicable time period, the claimant may  
     
  7    

proceed with an appeal under the procedures described in Section 9.5(b) and (c), as applicable.  
     
  (iv)          Claims Procedures Mandatory in All Cases. A claimant must follow the claims procedures (including both the initial determination and review processes) set forth in this Section 9.5 of the Plan before taking action in any other forum regarding a claim of any kind under or related to the Plan. Any such suit or action shall be filed within one year of the time the claim arises or it shall be deemed waived and abandoned. Also, any suit or action will be subject to such limitation period as applies under the Act or other applicable law, measured from the date a claim arises.  
     
  (v)           Discretionary Acts. Benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them. In exercising its discretionary powers under the Plan, the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) will have the broadest discretion permissible under the Act and any other applicable laws and its decisions will be final and binding upon all persons affected thereby.  
     
  (vi)          Delegation of Authority. The Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) may, in its sole discretion, delegate any and all authority under this Section 9.5 of the Plan, in any manner. Any delegation of some or all of the Retirement Board s (Employee Benefits Department s in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) authority under this Section 9.5 of the Plan shall, unless otherwise provided in the Retirement Board s ((Employee Benefits Department s in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) delegation, be empowered with the same discretion and authority as granted to the Retirement Board (Employee Benefits Department in the case of a claim governed by Section 9.5(c)(i) of the Plan) under this Section 9.5 of the Plan.  
     
  (b)           Non-Disability Claims  
     
  (i)            Initial Claims. The Retirement Board will decide a claim within 90 days of the date on which the claim is received by the Retirement Board, unless special circumstances require a longer period for adjudication and the claimant is notified in writing, prior to the expiration of the 90-day period, of the reasons for an extension of time and the expected decision date. If the Retirement Board fails to notify the claimant of its decision to grant or deny such claim within the time specified by this paragraph, the claimant may request the review of his or her claim pursuant to the claims review procedures set forth in Section 9.5(b)(ii) of the Plan. If a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claimant must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  8    

(C)          a description of additional information necessary for the claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material is necessary; and  
     
  (D)          an explanation of the procedure for review of the denied or partially denied claim set forth below, including the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act following an adverse benefit determination on review.  
     
  (ii)           Review of Denied Claims. The claimant will have 60 days to request in writing a review of the denial of his or her claim by the Committee (or, if the claimant has not received a response to the initial claim, within 150 days of the filing of the initial claim). The claimant or his duly authorized representative will have, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all, documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits. If the claimant files a request for review, his request must include a description of the issues and evidence he deems relevant. Failure to raise issues or present evidence on review will preclude those issues or evidence from being presented in any subsequent proceeding or judicial review of the claim. The review will take into account all available information, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  
     
  The Committee must render its decision on the review of the claim no more than 60 days after the Committee s receipt of the request for review, except that this period may be extended for an additional 60 days if the Committee determines that special circumstances (including, but not limited to, a hearing) require such extension. If an extension of time is required, written notice of the expected decision date and the reasons for the extension will be furnished to the claimant before the end of the initial 60-day period. If a review of a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claim must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; and  
     
  (D)          a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act.  
     
  (c)           Disability Claims.  
     
  (i)            Initial Claims. The Employee Benefits Department will decide a claim within 45 days of the date on which the claim is received by the Employee Benefits Department. If the Employee Benefits Department determines that an extension is necessary for reasons beyond its control, the Employee Benefits Department may extend  
     
  9    

this period for an additional 30 days by notifying the claimant of the reasons for the extension and the date when the claimant can expect to receive a decision The Employee Benefits Department may also extend this period for a second 30 day period by again complying with the requirements applicable to the initial 30-day extension. If an extension is provided in order to allow the claimant time to provide additional information necessary to review the claim, the response deadlines applicable to the Employee Benefits Department will be tolled until the earlier of the date 45 days after the date of the request for additional information or the date the Employee Benefits Department receives the additional information. If the Employee Benefits Department fails to notify the claimant of its decision to grant or deny such claim within the time specified by this paragraph, the claimant may request the review of his or her claim pursuant to the claims review procedures set forth in Section 9.5(c)(ii) of the Plan. If a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claimant must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to the specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a description of additional information necessary for the claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material is necessary;  
     
  (D)          an explanation of the procedure for review of the denied or partially denied claim set forth below, including the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act following an adverse benefit determination on review;  
     
  (E)           if applicable, any internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion relied on in making the adverse benefit determination (or a statement that such information is available free of charge upon request); and  
     
  (F)           if the adverse benefit determination is based on a scientific or clinical exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the Plan to the claimant s circumstances (or a statement that such explanation is available free of charge upon request).  
     
  (ii)           Review of Denied Claims. The claimant will have 180 days to request in writing a review of the denial of his or her claim by the Retirement Board. The claimant or his duly authorized representative will have, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all, documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits. If the claimant files a request for review, his request must include a description of the issues and evidence he deems relevant. Failure to raise issues or present evidence on review will preclude those issues or evidence from being presented in any subsequent proceeding or judicial review of the claim. The review will take into account all available information, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination and will not afford deference to the initial disability determination.  
     
  10    

In no event will the review be conducted by the person who made the initial determination or by a subordinate of such person. If the initial adverse benefit determination was based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, including determinations with regard to whether a particular treatment, drug, or other item is experimental, investigational, or not medically necessary or appropriate, the Retirement Board shall consult with a health care professional who has appropriate training and experience in the field of medicine involved in the medical judgment and who neither was consulted nor is the subordinate of an individual who was consulted in connection with the adverse benefit determination that is the subject of the claimant s request for review. In addition, the reviewer shall provide for the identification of medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the plan in connection with a claimant s adverse benefit determination, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the benefit determination.  
     
  The Retirement Board must render its decision on the review of the claim no more than 45 days after the Retirement Board s receipt of the request for review, except that this period may be extended for an additional 45 days if the Retirement Board determines that special circumstances (including, but not limited to, a hearing) require such extension. If an extension of time is required, written notice of the expected decision date and the reasons for the extension will be furnished to the claimant before the end of the initial 45-day period. If an extension is provided in order to allow the claimant time to provide additional information necessary to review the claim, the response deadlines applicable to the Retirement Board will be tolled until the earlier of the date 45 days after the date of the request for additional information or the date the Retirement Board receives the additional information. If a review of a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the claim must receive a written notice containing:  
     
  (A)          the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination;  
     
  (B)          a reference to specific Plan provision(s) on which the adverse determination is based;  
     
  (C)          a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; and  
     
  (D)          a statement describing any voluntary appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the claimant s right to obtain the information about such procedures and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of the Act.  
     
  (E)           if applicable, any internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion relied upon in making the adverse benefit determination (or a statement that such information will be provided free of charge upon request); and  
     
  (F)           if the adverse benefit determination is based on medical necessity or an experimental care exclusion or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation  
     
  11    

of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the Plan to the claimant s medical circumstances (or a statement that such explanation is available free of charge upon request).   
     
  12    

</EX-10.71>

<EX-10.73>
 7
 a2212976zex-10_73.htm
 EX-10.73

Exhibit 10.73   
     
   Amendment Number One   
   to the   
   American General Corporation   
   Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan   
     
  Amendment made this 30  th   day of December, 2008 to the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ), as amended to date, pursuant to the authority reserved in Article 5.1 thereof.  
     
  WHEREAS, benefit accruals under the Plan were frozen as of December 31, 2002 with respect to certain Executives and as of August 29, 2004 with respect to certain other Executives, as hereinafter described; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. formerly known as American General Corporation (the  Company ) wishes, by adoption of this Amendment Number One, to ratify and confirm the cessation of accruals as of December 31, 2002 or as of August 29, 2004, as hereinafter described.  
     
  NOW THEREFORE, the Plan is amended as follows:  
     
  1.                                          Section 2.6 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety effective August 29, 2004.  
     
  2.                                          The definition of  Final Average Compensation  in Article VI of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following to the end thereof:  
     
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Executive s Final Average Compensation shall be determined as if the Executive terminated employment (other than by reason of Section 2.6) on December 31, 2002 if the Executive is listed in Colunm A of Exhibit B or as of August 29, 2004 if the Executive is listed in Column B of Exhibit B.   
     
  3.                                          The definition of  Qualified Plan Benefit  in Article VI of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following to    the end thereof:  
     
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Executive s Qualified Plan Benefit shall mean the aggregate annual retirement benefit as of December 31, 2002 (if the Executive is listed in Column A of Exhibit B) or as of August 29, 2004 (if the Executive is listed in Column B of Exhibit B) payable to the Executive at age sixty-five (65) from the Qualified Plan in the form of a single life annuity, adjusted under the actuarial equivalent factors of the Qualified Plan to a single life annuity with a ten-year term certain as of the date payment of the Retirement Benefit hereunder commences and reduced under the terms of the Qualified Plan for early commencement if payment of the Retirement Benefit hereunder commences prior to the Executive s attainment of age 65.   

4.                                          The definition of  Restoration Plan Benefit  in Article VI of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following to the end thereof:  
     
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Executive s Restoration Plan Benefit shall mean the aggregate annual retirement benefit as of December 31, 2002 (if the Executive is listed in Column A of Exhibit B) or as of August 29, 2004 (if the Executive is listed in Column B of Exhibit B) payable to the Executive at age sixty-five (65) from the Restoration Plan in the form of a single life annuity, adjusted under the actuarial equivalent factors of the Restoration Plan to a single life annuity with a ten-year term certain as of the date payment of the Retirement Benefit hereunder commences and reduced under the terms of the Restoration Plan for early commencement if payment of the Retirement Benefit hereunder commences prior to the Executive s attainment of age 65.   
     
  5.                                          The definition of  Social Security Benefit  in Article VI of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following to the end thereof:  
     
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive s Social Security Benefit shall be determined under the Social Security Act as in effect in 2002 and reflecting compensation at the 2002 level through the Executive s Normal Retirement Date if the Executive is listed in Column A of Exhibit B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive s Social Security Benefit shall be determined under the Social Security Act as in effect in 2004 and reflecting compensation at the 2004 level through the Executive s Normal Retirement Date if the Executive is listed in Column B of Exhibit B.   
     
  6.                                          The definition of  Years of Service  in Article VI of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following to the end thereof:  
     
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Executive s Years of Service shall not reflect employment with the Company after December 31, 2002 if the Executive is listed in Column A of Exhibit 13 or after August 29, 2004 if the Executive is listed in Column B of Exhibit B except for purposes of determining if the Executive is eligible for Early Retirement.   
     
  7.                                          In order to record the participants who have a frozen accrued benefit as of December 31, 2002 or as of August 29, 2004, the Plan is amended by the addition of Exhibit B attached hereto.  
     
  2    

</EX-10.73>

<EX-10.74>
 8
 a2212976zex-10_74.htm
 EX-10.74

Exhibit 10.74   
     
   Amendment Number Two  to the  American General Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan   
     
  Amendment made this 30  th   day of December, 2008 to the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ), as amended to date, pursuant to the authority reserved in Article 5.1 thereof.  
     
  WHEREAS, benefit accruals under the Plan ceased as of December 31, 2002 or as of August 29, 2004;  
     
  WHEREAS, three Executives ( Non-Grandfathered Executives  set forth in Exhibit C) are nonetheless subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code by reason of their continued accrual of Years of Service for purposes of eligibility for Early Retirement; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG Life Holdings (U.S.), Inc. formerly known as American General Corporation (the  Company ) therefore desires to amend the Plan to include provisions required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to update certain administrative procedures.  
     
  NOW THEREFORE, the Plan is amended as follows:  
     
  1.                   Section 2.4 of the Plan is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:  
     
   Section 2.4  Disability . If a Grandfathered Executive is receiving either short-term or long-term disability benefits under any Company plan, then, during the period of payment of such disability benefits, the Executive shall be treated as employed for all purposes of the Plan, including, without limitation, attainment of the age, service and vesting requirements under the Plan (but not for purposes of accruing benefits after December 31, 2002). The parties hereto agree that such disability benefits will cease and the Grandfathered Executive will no longer be considered employed by the Company on the date on which the Executive attains the Executive s Normal Retirement Age. Payment of the Executive s Retirement Benefit shall commence after, but not more than sixty (60) days after, the Grandfathered Executive s Normal Retirement Date.  
     
  If a Non-Grandfathered Executive incurs a Total Disability while employed by the Company or an Affiliated Employer, the Retirement Benefit accrued by the Non-Grandfathered Executive will commence to be paid no more than ninety (90) days after the Non-Grandfathered Executive s Normal Retirement Date.   

2.                 Section 2.8(A) of the Plan is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:  
     
   (A)            Time of Payment. Except as provided in Section 2.3, Section 2.4, Section 2.5, the payment of any Retirement Benefit to which an Executive has become entitled shall commence as follows:  
     
  (i)                                         in the case of a Grandfathered Executive, no more than sixty (60) days after the Executive s date of retirement;  
     
  (ii)                                      in the case of a Non-Grandfathered Executive, except as provided in (iii) below, no more than ninety (90) days after the Executive s Termination of Employment; and  
     
  (iii)                                   in the case of a Non-Grandfathered Executive who is a Specified Employee, no more than ninety (90) days after six (6) full calendar months elapse following the Executive s Termination of Employment.  
     
  To the extent that monthly payments to be paid to a Non-Grandfathered Executive who is a Specified Employee are delayed by reason of the foregoing six-month delay, such delayed monthly payments shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum amount when payments commence, adjusted with interest at an annual rate of 5%. If payment of a lump sum amount is delayed by reason of the six-month delay, the lump sum to be paid to the Non-Grandfathered Executive shall be the lump sum amount calculated as of the first of the month following the Executive s Termination of Employment increased with interest at an annual rate of 5% for the period of the delay in payment or, if larger, the lump sum present value calculated as of the delayed payment date.   
     
  3.                 Section 2.8(C) of the Plan is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:  
     
   (C)       Election of Alternative Forms of Payment.    Except as provided below, a Grandfathered Executive can elect that the Executive s Retirement Benefit be paid in any of the following forms by an irrevocable election in writing which is delivered to the Company within sixty (60) days after the Executive commences participation in the Plan, or, with the permission of the Administrator, by an irrevocable election in writing which is delivered to the Company at any time before the Executive s retirement becomes effective:  
     
  (i)                                         a joint and survivor annuity payable at a reduced amount for the life of the Executive with a survivor annuity for the life of the Executive s surviving spouse which shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the annuity payable during the joint lives of the Executive and the surviving spouse;  
     
  (ii)                                      a joint and survivor annuity payable at a reduced amount for the life of the Executive with a survivor annuity for the life of the Executive s surviving spouse which shall be seventy-five percent (75%) of the annuity payable during the joint lives of the Executive and the surviving spouse;  
     
  2    

(iii)                                   a joint and survivor annuity payable at a reduced amount for the life of the Executive with a survivor annuity for the life of the Executive s surviving spouse which shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annuity payable during the joint lives of the Executive and the surviving spouse; or  
     
  (iv)                                  a lump-sum payment of the actuarial present value of the normal form of payment of the Retirement Benefit.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to January 1, 2009, a Non-Grandfathered Executive may make an irrevocable election as to the form of payment of his/her Retirement Benefit provided that it complies with transition guidance under Code Section 409A and procedures established by the Retirement Board. Any such valid election will be effective if the Non-Grandfathered Executive incurs a Termination of Employment after December 31, 2008. In the absence of such a valid election, payment will be made in the form of payment last validly elected by the Executive or, in the absence of a prior valid election, in the form of payment specified in Section 2.8(B). A Non-Grandfathered Executive who has validly elected an annuity form of payment may, at any time prior to the commencement of payment, elect another annuity form of payment provided such election is made in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator. No other change to the form of payment election may be made after December 31, 2008.  
     
  In calculating an alternative form of payment for the Retirement Benefit, the Administrator shall use the same assumptions utilized under the American General Retirement Plan (or any successor plan thereto) immediately prior to the Executive s termination of employment, or, if a Change in Control shall have occurred prior to the Executive s termination of employment, the assumptions so utilized immediately prior to the Change in Control, if more favorable to the Executive.   
     
  4.                 Section 4.1 through Section 4.5 of the Plan are amended and restated in their entirety to read as follows:  
     
  Section 4.1  Filing of claim under the Plan . An Executive or beneficiary under the Plan may file a written claim for a Retirement Benefit with the Retirement Board or with a person named by the Retirement Board to receive claims under the Plan.  
     
  Section 4.2  Notice of denial of claim . In the event of a denial or limitation of any Retirement Benefit or payment due to or requested by, an Executive or beneficiary under the Plan ( claimant ), the claimant shall be given a written notification containing specific reasons for the denial or limitation of the benefit. The written notification shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall contain specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial or limitation of the benefit is based. In addition, it shall contain a description of any other material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect a claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary. The notification shall further provide appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the claimant wishes to submit a claim for review, including but not limited to the applicable time limits for submitting such claim and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA  
     
  3    

following an adverse benefit determination on review. This written notification shall be given to a claimant within 90 days after receipt of the claim by the Retirement Board unless special circumstances require an extension of time to process of the claim. If such an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of said 90-day period, and such notice shall indicate the special circumstances which make the postponement appropriate and the date by which the Plan expects to render the benefit determination. In no event may such extension exceed a period of 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period.  
     
  Section 4.3  Right of review . In the event of a denial or limitation of the claimant s Retirement Benefit, the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative may make a written request for a full and fair review of the claim and its denial by the Retirement Board or its delegate; provided, however, that such written request must be received by the Retirement Board within 60 days after receipt by the claimant of written notification of the denial or limitation of the claim. The 60-day requirement may be waived by the Retirement Board in appropriate cases. As part of such review, the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to all documents, records or other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits and shall be permitted to submit to the Retirement Board written comments, documents records and other information relating to the claim, which shall be taken into account by the Retirement Board in making its determination on review, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  
     
  Section 4.4  Decision on review . A decision on review shall be rendered by the Retirement Board within 60 days after the receipt of the request for review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time to process of the claim. If such an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of said 60-day period, and such notice shall indicate the special circumstances which make the postponement appropriate and the date by which the Retirement Board expects to render the determination on review. In no event may such extension exceed a period of 60 days from the end of the initial 60-day period. Any decision on review by the Retirement Board shall be furnished to the claimant in writing and shall set forth the specific reasons for the decision and the specific Plan provisions on which the decision is based. The decision on review shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall include a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA.  
     
  Section 4.5  Disability claims . In the event the claim requires a determination by the Retirement Board or its designee as to whether the Executive is disabled, the disability claim procedures set forth in the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan shall apply, which such claim procedures are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein.  
     
  4    

5.                 Section 6.1 of the Plan,  Administrator , is amended to read as follows:  
     
   Administrator  means the Retirement Board or such other person or persons designated by the Retirement Board.   
     
  6.                 Section 6.1 of the Plan is amended by the addition of the following definitions:  
     
   Affiliated Employer  shall mean any member of the same controlled group of corporations as the Company as determined under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.  
     
   Grandfathered Executive  means an Executive who has ten (10) or more Years of Service as of December 31, 2004.  
     
   Non-Grandfathered Executive  means an Executive who has less than ten (10) Years of Service as of December 31, 2004.  
     
   Retirement Board  shall mean the Retirement Board of American International Group, Inc.  
     
   Specified Employee  shall mean an Executive who, as of the date of the Executive s Termination of Employment, is a key employee of the Company or an Affiliated Employer. For purposes of this Plan, an Executive is a key employee if the Executive meets the requirements of Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii), or (iii) applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the December 31st of a year. If an Executive is a key employee as of such December 31st, the Executive is treated as a key employee for purposes of this Plan for the entire 12-month period beginning on the next following April 1st.  
     
   Termination of Employment  means the Executive has separated from the service of (other than by death or Total Disability) the Company and each Affiliated Employer, subject to the following:  
     
  (a)                                     For this purpose, the employment relationship is treated as continuing intact while the individual is on military leave, sick leave (other than by reason of Total Disability), or other bona fide leave of absence (such as temporary employment by the government) if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or, if longer, so long as the individual s right to reemployment with the Company or an Affiliated Employer is provided either by statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months and the individual s right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such six-month period.  
     
  (b)                                     The determination of whether an Executive has terminated employment shall be determined based on the facts and circumstances in accordance with the rules set forth in Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder.  
     
   Total Disability  shall be deemed to have occurred if, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can  
     
  5    

be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, the Non-Grandfathered Executive is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company or an Affiliated Employer or, if a Non-Grandfathered Executive does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which the Non-Grandfathered Executive is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can he expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.   
     
  7.                                          In order to record the Participants who are Non-Grandfathered Executives, the Plan is amended by the addition of Exhibit C attached hereto.  
     
  6    

</EX-10.74>

<EX-10.77>
 9
 a2212976zex-10_77.htm
 EX-10.77

Exhibit 10.77   
     
  February 19, 2013  
     
  American General Life Insurance Company  
  c/o SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.  
  2727-A Allen Parkway  
  Houston, Texas 77019  
   Attention   :  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  American General Life Insurance Company  
  c/o SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.  
  1999 Avenue of the Stars  
  Los Angeles, CA 90067  
   Attention   :  General Counsel  
     
  Ladies and Gentlemen:  
     
  Reference is made to that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement dated as of March 30, 2011 (as supplemented, the  Capital Maintenance Agreement ) by and between American International Group, Inc. and American General Life Insurance Company (the  Company ).  Capitalized terms, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings set forth in the Capital Maintenance Agreement.  
     
  Pursuant to paragraph 3 of the Capital Maintenance Agreement, the undersigned parties hereby agree that effective as of February 19, 2013, the Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385%.  Accordingly, Schedule 1 to the Capital Maintenance Agreement shall be restated as follows:  
     
   The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.   

Yours sincerely,           

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.            

By:       
 
  /s/ Charles S. Shamieh           

Name:   Charles S. Shamieh           

Title: Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary           

Acknowledged   and agreed:       

AMERICAN GENERAL   LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY        

By:       
 
  /s/ Mary Jane B. Fortin       

Name:   Mary Jane B. Fortin       

Title: Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       

</EX-10.77>

<EX-10.79>
 10
 a2212976zex-10_79.htm
 EX-10.79

Exhibit 10.79   
     
  February 19, 2013  
     
  The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
  c/o SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.  
  2727-A Allen Parkway  
  Houston, Texas 77019  
   Attention   :  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
  c/o SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.  
  1999 Avenue of the Stars  
  Los Angeles, CA 90067  
   Attention   :  General Counsel  
     
  Ladies and Gentlemen:  
     
  Reference is made to that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement dated as of March 30, 2011 (as supplemented, the  Capital Maintenance Agreement ) by and between American International Group, Inc. and The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (the  Company ).  Capitalized terms, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings set forth in the Capital Maintenance Agreement.  
     
  Pursuant to paragraph 3 of the Capital Maintenance Agreement, the undersigned parties hereby agree that effective as of February 19, 2013, the Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385%.  Accordingly, Schedule 1 to the Capital Maintenance Agreement shall be restated as follows:  
     
   The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.   

Yours sincerely,           

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.            

By:       
 
  /s/ Charles S. Shamieh           

Name:   Charles S. Shamieh           

Title: Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary           

Acknowledged   and agreed:       

THE UNITED STATES LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY   
   IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK        

By:       
 
  /s/ Mary Jane B. Fortin       

Name:   Mary Jane B. Fortin       

Title: Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       

</EX-10.79>

<EX-10.80>
 11
 a2212976zex-10_80.htm
 EX-10.80

Exhibit 10.80   
     
   Execution Copy   
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  BETWEEN  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  CHARTIS INC.  
  AND  
  THE INSURANCE COMPANIES NAMED ON SCHEDULE 1  
     
  This Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made, entered into and effective as of February 20, 2013, by and between American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), Chartis Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( Chartis ), and each of the insurance companies listed on Schedule 1 hereto (each, a  Company  and collectively, the  Fleet ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, each Company is a property-casualty insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of its applicable jurisdiction of incorporation set forth on Schedule 1 (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, each Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of each of AIG and Chartis;  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining and enhancing the Fleet s financial condition (the  Fleet  for purposes of this Agreement shall be treated as one insurance company as if each Company combined its financial attributes into one entity); and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG, Chartis and each Company executed that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement on February 17, 2012 (the  2012 CMA ) and the parties have agreed to amend and restate such 2012 CMA as provided in this Agreement:  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.                                           Capital Contributions   .  In the event that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital, excluding Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets, for each of the Fleet s first and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on each Company s first and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any  

adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s projected year-end Authorized Control Level RBC (in each case as estimated by Chartis as of the end of each such first and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts and circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 4 to make a contribution to Chartis), AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 4, in accordance with paragraph 5 and in compliance with applicable law, provide to Chartis cash, cash equivalents, securities or other instruments that qualify (as admitted assets in the appropriate jurisdiction) for purposes of calculating the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital, excluding Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets, as of the end of each of the Fleet s second and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected at year-end to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to Chartis in such amount as is required for the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital (excluding Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets) to equal a percentage of its Authorized Control Level RBC determined to be appropriate by Chartis and AIG.  
     
  2.                                           Dividends   .  In the event that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital, excluding Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets (a) for each of the Fleet s first, second and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on each Company s first, second and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) is in excess of the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s projected Authorized Control Level RBC (in each case as estimated by Chartis as of the end of each such first, second and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be) or (b) as of each fiscal year end (as determined based on each Company s fiscal year-end    filed statutory financial statements, together with any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) is in excess of the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC (as determined based on each Company s fiscal year-end statutory financial statements),  each Company shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 4, in accordance with paragraph 5 and subject to approval by each applicable Company s board of directors as required by the laws of such Company s Domiciliary State, declare and pay dividends ratably to its equity holders in an aggregate amount equal to the  lesser  of (i) the amount (to be determined by Chartis) necessary to reduce the Fleet s projected or actual Total Adjusted Capital, excluding Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets, as of each of the end of the Fleet s fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as the case may be, to a level  
     
  2    

equal to or not materially greater than the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC or (ii) the maximum amount permitted by the applicable Domiciliary State s law to be paid as an ordinary dividend  less  an amount that the Company and AIG agree is appropriate to protect the Company from exceeding such maximum amount allowed by such Domiciliary State s law as a result of potential audit adjustments or adjustments to the projections on which such dividend amount is based.  For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph shall only require each Company to pay ordinary dividends subject to the other applicable conditions set forth in this paragraph being satisfied; under no circumstances shall any Company be required to pay any dividend which would trigger the extraordinary dividend provisions of the applicable Domiciliary State or that is otherwise prohibited by such Domiciliary State.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement does not prohibit the payment of extraordinary dividends to reduce the Fleet s projected or actual Total Adjusted Capital, excluding Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets, to a level equal to or not materially greater than the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  
     
  3.                                           Defined Terms   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Authorized Control Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the applicable Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ).  Net Admitted Deferred Tax Assets  shall have the meaning and refer to the amounts defined in and reported on each Company s filed statutory financial statements on its balance sheet. The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall be equal to the percentage set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto, which shall be agreed to by AIG and Chartis at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of each Company s 2013 Annual Statement with the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department and following review against the capital adequacy standards and criteria ( Agency Criteria ) of each of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ).  Notwithstanding the obligation of Chartis and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise the Specified Minimum Percentage on a more frequent basis, if the parties agree it is appropriate, to take into account (a) any material changes after the date hereof to any Agency Criteria adopted by any of S P, Moody s or A.M. Best, on the one hand, or to the law of any applicable Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, which causes the results under the Agency Criteria to diverge from that under the law of any applicable Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) any Company completes a material transaction that is treated materially differently by the Agency Criteria, on the one hand, and the NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Fleet or any Company which  
     
  3    

AIG and Chartis agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  4.                                           Timing of Capital Contributions and Dividends   .  Chartis and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time beginning on the first business day after the last filing of any Company s first fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Fleet s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the last filing of any Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Fleet s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Fleet but prior to the last filing by any Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the applicable Domiciliary State.  Chartis and AIG further agree that any dividends to be made under paragraph 2 will take place as soon as practicable after the filing by each Company of the relevant fiscal quarter-end or fiscal year-end statutory financial statements or such earlier time as may be agreed by Chartis and AIG.  
     
  5.                                           Funding Mechanics   .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 4, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to Chartis and Chartis shall further contribute such funds, securities or instruments to the applicable subsidiaries in furtherance of the purposes of this Agreement and in the reasonable discretion of the management of Chartis, or (b) make such contribution directly to any applicable Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor, subject in either case to any required regulatory approvals.  At any time any dividends are due under paragraph 4, each Company agrees that it will make such dividend to such Company s direct parent and both Chartis and such Company will use their best efforts to cause such direct parent to then dividend or otherwise provide such funds to AIG.  All contributions and dividends contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved, declared and made, as applicable, in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity (including any applicable Company) and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations of any applicable Domiciliary State.  
     
  6.                                           AIG Policies   .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of any Company s or Chartis  senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any  
     
  4    

insurance regulator, each Company and Chartis hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  7.                                           No Failure to Claim   .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of Chartis or any Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  8.                                           Termination   .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 8, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to Chartis and each applicable Company, which notice shall state the effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the corporate structure or ownership of Chartis or any Company, or (b) AIG sells Chartis or any Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the then-current rating of Chartis or such Company, as applicable, being restructured or sold as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of the corporate structure or sale by AIG of Chartis or such Company, Chartis  or such Company s capitalization, as applicable, is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than Chartis  or such Company s, as applicable, then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate automatically, with respect to any particular Company, one year after the closing of any sale of such Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 8 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  9.                                           Policyholder Rights   .  Any policyholder holding a policy issued by any Company prior to the termination of this Agreement shall have the right to demand that such Company enforce such Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this Agreement, and, if such Company fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce such rights or such Company defaults in any claim or other payment owed to any such policyholder when due, such policyholder may proceed directly against AIG to enforce such Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this Agreement;  provided, however,  that no policyholder of any  
     
  5    

Company may take any action authorized under this paragraph 9 unless and until (a) such policyholder has given AIG written notice of its intent to enforce the terms of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph 9, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the nature of and basis for the policyholder s complaint and (b) AIG has failed to comply with this Agreement within sixty (60) days after such notice is given; and,  provided, further,  that upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 8 hereof, the rights of any policyholder as provided for under this paragraph 9 shall terminate effective as of the Termination Date, except with respect to the obligation of AIG (if any) to make capital contributions to any Company pursuant to paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this Agreement solely to the extent such obligation arose prior to, and remained unsatisfied as of, the Termination Date (it being understood that upon AIG s satisfaction of all such obligations after the Termination Date, no such policyholder shall have any rights against Chartis or any Company or AIG, as the case may be, under this paragraph 9).  
     
  10.                                    No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG   .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of Chartis or any Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of any Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  11.                                    Notices   .  Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  
     
  If to AIG:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  180 Maiden Lane  
  New York, New York 10038  
  Attention:  Secretary  
     
  If to Chartis:  
     
  Chartis Inc.  
  175 Water Street, 24  th   Floor  
  New York, NY 10038  
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  
     
  6    

Chartis U.S. Law Department  
  175 Water Street, 18  th   Floor  
  New York, NY 10038  
  Attention:  Chartis U.S. General Counsel  
     
  12.                                    Fiscal Year   .  Each of the Companies represents that its fiscal year is the same as each other Company and covenants that it shall not change its fiscal year without the prior written consent of AIG.  
     
  13.                                    Successors   .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and each of Chartis and each Company and its successors.  
     
  14.                                    Governing Law   .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  15.                                    Severability   .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  16.                                    Entire Agreement; Amendments   .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties without the need for any action.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  17.                                    Headings   .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  18.                                    Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  7    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN   INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/ Charles S. Shamieh       

Name:   Charles S. Shamieh       

Title:   Senior Vice President and Chief   Corporate Actuary       

CHARTIS INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/     James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Assistant   Secretary       

AIU   INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

AMERICAN   HOME ASSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

CHARTIS   CASUALTY COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

CHARTIS   PROPERTY CASUALTY COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

CHARTIS   SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

COMMERCE AND   INDUSTRY INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

GRANITE   STATE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

ILLINOIS   NATIONAL INSURANCE CO.       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

LEXINGTON   INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

NATIONAL   UNION FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH, PA.       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

NEW   HAMPSHIRE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

THE   INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA       

By:       
 
  /s/     Sean   Leonard       

Name:       
 
  Sean Leonard       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/     Denis   M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

SCHEDULE 1  

Company        

Domiciliary State            

(a)       
 
  AIU   Insurance Company       

NY           

(b)       
 
  American   Home Assurance Company       

NY           

(c)       
 
  Chartis   Casualty Company       

PA           

(d)       
 
  Chartis   Property Casualty Company       

PA           

(e)       
 
  Chartis   Specialty Insurance Company       

IL           

(f)       
 
  Commerce and   Industry Insurance Company       

NY           

(g)       
 
  Granite   State Insurance Company       

PA           

(h)       
 
  Illinois   National Insurance Co.       

IL           

(i)       
 
  Lexington   Insurance Company       

DE           

(j)       
 
  National   Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.       

PA           

(k)       
 
  New   Hampshire Insurance Company       

PA           

(l)       
 
  The   Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania       

PA              

SCHEDULE 2  
     
  The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 325% of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  

</EX-10.80>

<EX-10.83>
 12
 a2212976zex-10_83.htm
 EX-10.83

Exhibit 10.83   
     
  February 19, 2013  
     
  The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
  2929 Allen Parkway  
  Houston, TX 77019  
   Attention   :  Secretary  
     
  The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
  2929 Allen Parkway  
  Houston, TX 77019  
   Attention   :  General Counsel  
     
  Ladies and Gentlemen:  
     
  Reference is made to that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement dated as of March 30, 2011 (as supplemented, the  Capital Maintenance Agreement ) by and between American International Group, Inc. and The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (the  Company ).  Capitalized terms, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings set forth in the Capital Maintenance Agreement.  
     
  Pursuant to paragraph 3 of the Capital Maintenance Agreement, the undersigned parties hereby agree that effective as of February 19, 2013, the Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385%.  Accordingly, Schedule 1 to the Capital Maintenance Agreement shall be restated as follows:  
     
   The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.   

Yours sincerely,           

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.            

By:       
 
  /s/ Charles S. Shamieh           

Name:       
 
  Charles S. Shamieh           

Title:       
 
  Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary           

Acknowledged   and agreed:       

THE VARIABLE   ANNUITY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY        

By:       
 
  /s/ Mary Jane B. Fortin       

Name:       
 
  Mary Jane B. Fortin       

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       

</EX-10.83>

<EX-12>
 13
 a2212976zex-12.htm
 EX-12

COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

    Exhibit 12     

(a)     From
continuing operations, excluding undistributed earnings (loss) from equity method investments and capitalized interest.   

  (b)     The
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges excluding interest credited to policy and contract holders removes interest credited to guaranteed investment contract (GIC) policyholders and
guaranteed investment agreement (GIA) contract holders. Such interest expenses are also removed from earnings used in this calculation. GICs and GIAs are entered into by AIG's subsidiaries. The
proceeds from GICs and GIAs are invested in a diversified portfolio of securities, primarily investment grade bonds. The assets acquired yield rates greater than the rates on the related policyholders
obligation or contract, with the intent of earning a profit from the spread.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
367  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 14
 a2212976zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Subsidiaries of Registrant  

    Exhibit 21     

As of December 31, 2012    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

American International Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

(2)   

AIA Aurora LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Capital Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Credit S.A.  
     
  Poland  

100  

AIG Credit Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

A.I. Credit Consumer Discount Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

A.I. Credit Corp.  
     
  New Hampshire  

100  

AICCO, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Credit Corp. of Canada  
     
  Canada  

100  

AIG Equipment Finance Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance Company, Canada  
     
  Canada  

100  

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Asset Management (Europe) Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG Asset Management (Ireland) Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

AIG Asset Management (U.S.), LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Securities Lending Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

International Lease Finance Corporation  
     
  California  

100  

Fleet Solutions Holdings Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AeroTurbine, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Federal Savings Bank  
     
  The United States  

100  

AIG Financial Products Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG-FP Matched Funding Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Matched Funding Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Management France S.A.  
     
  France  

90.07  
   (3)   

AIG Funding, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Services, Inc.  
     
  New Hampshire  

100  

AIG Life Insurance Company (Switzerland) Ltd.  
     
  Switzerland  

100  

AIG Markets, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Trading Group Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG International Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIUH LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Global Claims Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Claims, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Health Direct, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Global Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis North America, Inc.  
     
  New York  

100  

Chartis International, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG APAC HOLDINGS PTE. LTD.  
     
  Singpore  

100  

Chartis Singapore Insurance Pte. Ltd.  
     
  Singpore  

100  

AIG Insurance New Zealand Limited  
     
  New Zealand  

100  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
368  

As of December 31, 2012    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

AIG Malaysia Insurance Berhad  
     
  Malaysia  

100  

AIG Philippines Insurance, Inc.  
     
  Philippines  

100  

AIG Vietnam Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Vietnam  

100  

Chartis Australia Insurance Limited  
     
  Australia  

100  

Chartis Insurance (Thailand) Public Company Limited  
     
  Thailand  

48.986  

Chartis Insurance Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong  

100  

Chartis Taiwan Insurance Co., Ltd.  
     
  Taiwan  

100  

PT AIG Insurance Indonesia  
     
  Indonesia  

61.21  
   (4)   

AIG MEA Holdings Limited  
     
  United Arab Emirates  

100  

AIG CIS Investments, LLC  
     
  Russian Federation  

100  

AIG Insurance Company, CJSC  
     
  Russian Federation  

100  

AIG Shared Services Corporation  
     
  New York  

100  

AIU Insurance Company  
     
  New York  

100  

AIG Insurance Company China Limited  
     
  China  

100  

American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd.  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

AIG Seguros Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico  

100  

Chartis Africa Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Kenya Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Kenya  

66.67  

Chartis Central Europe   CIS Insurance Holdings Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

UBB-AIG Insurance Company AD  
     
  Bulgaria  

40  

Chartis Egypt Insurance Company S.A.E.  
     
  Egypt  

95.02  

Chartis European Insurance Investments Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Japan Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Japan Capital Company, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

The Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance Company, Limited  
     
  Japan  

45.45  
   (5)   

American Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

100  

Fuji International Insurance Company Limited  
     
  England  

100  

Fuji Life Insurance Company Ltd.  
     
  Japan  

100  

Chartis Kazakhstan Insurance Company Joint Stock Company  
     
  Kazakhstan  

100  

Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Seguros Guatemala, S.A.  
     
  Guatemala  

100  

Chartis Memsa Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Sigorta A.S.  
     
  Turkey  

100  

CHARTIS Investment Holdings (Private) Limited  
     
  Sri Lanka  

100  

AIG Insurance Limited  
     
  Sri Lanka  

100  

Chartis Iraq, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

CHARTIS Lebanon S.A.L.  
     
  Lebanon  

100  

Chartis Libya, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited  
     
  India  

26  

Chartis Overseas Limited  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

AIG Cyprus Limited  
     
  Cyprus  

100  

AIG Israel Insurance Company Ltd.  
     
  Israel  

50.01  

AIG Luxembourg Financing Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG MEA Limited  
     
  United Arab Emirates  

100  

AIG Seguros Colombia S.A.  
     
  Colombia  

96.58  
   (6)   

AIG Uganda Limited  
     
  Uganda  

100  

American International Underwriters del Ecuador S.A.  
     
  Ecuador  

100  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
369  

As of December 31, 2012    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

AIG-Metropolitana C a. de Seguros y Reaseguros del Ecuador S.A.  
     
  Ecuador  

32.06  
   (7)   

Arabian American Insurance Company (Bahrain) E.C.  
     
  Bahrain  

100  

Chartis Chile Compania de Seguros Generales S.A.  
     
  Chile  

100  

Chartis Global Management Company Limited  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

Chartis Insurance Company-Puerto Rico  
     
  Puerto Rico  

100  

AIG Insurance (Guernsey) PCC Limited  
     
  Guernsey  

100  

Chartis Latin America I.I.  
     
  Puerto Rico  

100  

Chartis Overseas Association  
     
  Bermuda  

67  
   (8)   

AIG Europe Holdings Limited  
     
  England  

58.54  
   (9)   

AIG Europe Financing Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG Europe Sub Holdings Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG Europe Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG Germany Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

Chartis Romania S.A.  
     
  Romania  

100  

Chartis Seguros Brasil S.A.  
     
  Brazil  

100  

Chartis Seguros, El Salvador, Sociedad Anonima  
     
  El Salvador  

99.99  
   (10)   

Chartis Vida, Sociedad Anonima, Seguros de Personas  
     
  El Salvador  

99.99  

Chartis Seguros Uruguay S.A.  
     
  Uruguay  

100  

CHARTIS Takaful-Enaya B.S.C. (c)  
     
  Bahrain  

100  

Chartis Uzbekistan Insurance Company Joint Venture LLC  
     
  Uzbekistan  

51  

Hellas Insurance Co. S.A.  
     
  Greece  

50  

Inversiones Segucasai, C.A.  
     
  Venezuela  

50  
   (11)   

C.A. de Seguros American International  
     
  Venezuela  

93.72  

Johannesburg Insurance Holdings (Proprietary) Limited  
     
  South Africa  

100  

AIG Life South Africa Limited  
     
  South Africa  

100  

AIG South Africa Limited  
     
  South Africa  

100  

La Meridional Compania Argentina de Seguros S.A.  
     
  Argentina  

95  
   (12)   

Underwriters Adjustment Company, Inc.  
     
  Panama  

100  

Chartis Pacific Rim Holdings, L.L.C.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Japan Holdings Kabushiki Kaisha  
     
  Japan  

100  

JI Accident   Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
  Japan  

50  

Chartis Non-Life Holding Company (Japan), Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Trinidad and Tobago Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Trinidad   Tobago  

100  

Chartis Ukraine Insurance Company PJSC  
     
  Ukraine  

94.221  
   (13)   

Global Information Services Private Limited  
     
  India  

50  

Travel Guard Worldwide, Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin  

100  

AIG Travel Assist, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Travel Guard Americas LLC  
     
  Wisconsin  

100  

Travel Guard Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.  
     
  Singapore  

100  

Travel Guard EMEA Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG Travel Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
  Texas  

100  

Livetravel, Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin  

100  

Travel Guard Group Canada, Inc.  
     
  Canada  

100  

Travel Guard Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

WINGS International SAS  
     
  France  

100  

Chartis U.S., Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American Home Assurance Company  
     
  New York  

100  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
370  

As of December 31, 2012    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

American International Realty Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

31.47  
   (14)   

Pine Street Real Estate Holdings Corp.  
     
  New Hampshire  

31.47  
   (15)   

Chartis Aerospace Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
  Georgia  

100  

Chartis Canada Holdings Inc.  
     
  Canada  

100  

Chartis Insurance Company of Canada  
     
  Canada  

100  

Chartis Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
  New Jersey  

100  

Chartis Property Casualty Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Commerce and Industry Insurance Company  
     
  New York  

100  

AIG Polska S.A. w Likwiadacji  
     
  Poland  

98.5  
   (16)   

Eaglestone Reinsurance Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Morefar Marketing, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Chartis Specialty Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

100  

Lexington Insurance Company  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Excess Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

Mt. Mansfield Company, Inc.  
     
  Vermont  

100  

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Vermont  
     
  Vermont  

100  

New Hampshire Insurance Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Chartis Casualty Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Granite State Insurance Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Illinois National Insurance Co.  
     
  Illinois  

100  

New Hampshire Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
  New Hampshire  

100  

Risk Specialists Companies, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Risk Specialists Companies Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
  Massachusetts  

100  

Agency Management Corporation  
     
  Louisiana  

100  

The Gulf Agency, Inc.  
     
  Alabama  

100  

Design Professionals Association Risk Purchasing Group, Inc.  
     
  Illinois  

100  

The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

AM Holdings LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American Security Life Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Liechtenstein  

100  

Chartis Azerbaijan Insurance Company Open Joint Stock Company  
     
  Azerbaijan  

100  

MG Reinsurance Limited  
     
  Vermont  

100  

SAFG Retirement Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.  
     
  Texas  

100  

AGC Life Insurance Company  
     
  Missouri  

100  

AIG Life of Bermuda, Ltd.  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

American General Life Insurance Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

AIG Advisor Group, Inc.  
     
  Maryland  

100  

Financial Service Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

FSC Securities Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Royal Alliance Associates, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SagePoint Financial, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Woodbury Financial Services, Inc.  
     
  Minnesota  

100  

AIG Enterprise Services, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American General Annuity Service Corporation  
     
  Texas  

100  

American General Bancassurance Services, Inc.  
     
  Illinois  

100  

SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, Inc.  
     
  California  

100  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
371  

As of December 31, 2012    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

SunAmerica Asset Management Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Capital Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Retirement Markets, Inc.  
     
  Maryland  

100  

SunAmerica Series Trust  
     
  Massachusetts  

100  

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
     
  New York  

100  

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

Valic Retirement Services Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

Knickerbocker Corporation  
     
  Texas  

100  

SunAmerica Life Reinsurance Company  
     
  Missouri  

100  

United Guaranty Corporation  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Agenzia di Assicurazione S.R.L.  
     
  Italy  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Insurance (Asia) Limited  
     
  Hong Kong  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Mexico, S.A.  
     
  Mexico  

99.999999  
   (17)   

AIG United Guaranty Re Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

United Guaranty Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Partners Insurance Company  
     
  Vermont  

100  

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

75.03  
   (18)   

United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Credit Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Indemnity Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Services, Inc.  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

(1)     Percentages include directors' qualifying shares.     

    (2)     Substantially all subsidiaries listed are consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. Certain subsidiaries have been omitted from the tabulation. The omitted subsidiaries,
when considered in the aggregate, do not constitute a significant subsidiary.     

(3)     Also owned 9.93 percent by AIG Matched Funding Corp.     

    (4)     Also owned 38.79 percent by PT Tiara Citra Cemerlang.     

    (5)     Also owned 38.84 percent by Chartis Non-Life Holding Company (Japan), Inc. and 15.71 percent by AIG Japan Holdings Kabushiki Kaisha.     

    (6)     Also owned 3.42 percent by Chartis Insurance Company-Puerto Rico.     

    (7)     Also owned 19.72 percent by Chartis Overseas Association.     

(8)     Also owned 12 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 11 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., and 10 percent by American Home
Assurance Company.   

   (9)     Also owned 40.15 percent by Chartis Overseas Limited and 1.31 percent by AIG Luxembourg Financing Limited.     

    (10)   Also owned 0.01 percent by Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC.     

    (11)   Also owned 50 percent by Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC.     

    (12)   Also owned 4.99 percent by Chartis Global Management Company Limited.     

(13)   Also 5.734 percent by Limited Liability Company with Foreign Investments Steppe Securities, and 0.022 percent by Chartis Central Europe   CIS Insurance Holdings
Corporation.     

    (14)   Also owned 27 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 22.06 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., 5.75 percent by AIU
Insurance Company, 5.05 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, 4.05 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, 1.67 percent by Lexington Insurance
Company, 1.62 percent by Chartis Property Casualty Company, 0.73 percent by Illinois National Insurance Co., and 0.6 percent by Granite State Insurance
Company.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
372  

(15)   Also owned 27 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 22.06 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.,
5.75 percent by AIU Insurance Company, 5.05 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, 4.05 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, 1.67 percent by
Lexington Insurance Company, 1.62 percent by Chartis Property Casualty Company, 0.73 percent by Illinois National Insurance Co., and 0.6 percent by Granite State Insurance
Company.   

   (16)   Also owned 0.75 percent by AIU Insurance Company.     

    (17)   Also owned 0.000001 percent by United Guaranty Services, Inc.     

    (18)   Also owned 24.97 percent by United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina.     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
373  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 15
 a2212976zex-23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(No. 2-45346, No. 2-75875, No. 2-78291, No. 2-91945, No. 33-18073, No. 33-57250,
No. 333-48639, No. 333-58095, No. 333-70069, No. 333-83813, No. 333-31346,
No. 333-39976, No. 333-45828, No. 333-50198, No. 333-52938, No. 333-68640,
No. 333-101640, No. 333-101967, No. 333-108466, No. 333-111737, No. 333-115911,
No. 333-148148 and No. 333-168679) and Form S-3 (No. 333-182469, No. 333-160645,
No. 333-74187, No. 333-106040, No. 333-132561, No. 333-150865 and No. 333-143992) of American
International Group, Inc. of our report dated February 21, 2013 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedules and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP     

  New York, New York 
February 21, 2013   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
374  

</EX-23>

<EX-23.1>
 16
 a2212976zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS   

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(No. 2-45346, No. 2-75875, No. 2-78291, No. 2-91945, No. 33-18073, No. 33-57250,
No. 333-48639, No. 333-58095, No. 333-70069, No. 333-83813, No. 333-31346,
No. 333-39976, No. 333-45828, No. 333-50198, No. 333-52938, No. 333-68640,
No. 333-101640, No. 333-101967, No. 333-108466, No. 333-111737, No. 333-115911,
No. 333-148148 and No. 333-168679) and Form S-3 (No. 333-182469, No. 333-160645,
No. 333-74187, No. 333-106040, No. 333-132561, No. 333-150865 and No. 333-143992) of American
International Group, Inc. of our report dated 24 February 2012 relating to the consolidated financial statements of AIA Group Limited, which appears in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP     

  Hong Kong 
21 February 2013   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
375  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31>
 17
 a2212976zex-31.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31     

CERTIFICATIONS   

  I,
Robert H. Benmosche, certify that:   

  1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc.;   

2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:   

(a)   Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

  (c)   Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)   All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  (b)   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:
February 21, 2013   

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

Robert H. Benmosche 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
376  

CERTIFICATIONS   

  I, David L. Herzog, certify that:   

  1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc.;   

  2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:   

(a)   Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

  (c)   Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)   All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  (b)   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:
February 21, 2013   

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

David L. Herzog 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
377  

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 18
 a2212976zex-32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32     

CERTIFICATION   

  In
connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc. (the "Company") for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert H. Benmosche, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
that to my knowledge:   

  (1)   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

  (2)   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date:
February 21, 2013   

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

Robert H. Benmosche 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate
disclosure document.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
378  

CERTIFICATION   

  In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc. (the "Company")
for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, David L. Herzog, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:   

  (1)   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

  (2)   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

  Date:
February 21, 2013   

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

David L. Herzog 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate
disclosure document.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
379  

</EX-32>

<EX-99.02>
 19
 a2212976zex-99_02.htm
 EX-99.02

Exhibit 99.02     

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:   

Title of Each Class    

Name of Each Exchange 
on Which Registered      

Common Stock, Par Value $2.50 Per Share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

Warrants (expiring January 19, 2021)  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

5.75% Series A-2 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

4.875% Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

6.45% Series A-4 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

7.70% Series A-5 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

Stock Purchase Rights  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
380  

</EX-99.02>

<EX-99.1>
 20
 a2212976zex-99_1.htm
 EX-99.1

Exhibit 99.1   
     
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   
     
   Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 111(B)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008   
     
  I, Robert H. Benmosche, certify, based on my knowledge, that:  
     
  (i)                                         The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) of American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ) has discussed, reviewed, and evaluated with senior risk officers, at least every six months during any part of the period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending December 14, 2012 (the  most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period ), the senior executive officer ( SEO ) compensation plans and the employee compensation plans and the risks these plans pose to AIG;  
     
  (ii)                                      The Committee has identified and taken steps to limit, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, any features of the SEO compensation plans that could lead SEOs to take unnecessary and excessive risks that could threaten the value of AIG, and has identified any features of the employee compensation plans that pose risks to AIG and has taken all reasonable efforts to limit those features to ensure that AIG is not unnecessarily exposed to risks;  
     
  (iii)                                   The Committee has reviewed, at least every six months during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, the terms of each employee compensation plan and identified any features of the plan that could encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of AIG to enhance the compensation of an employee, and has limited those features that would encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of AIG;  
     
  (iv)                                  The Committee will certify to the reviews of the SEO compensation plans and employee compensation plans required under (i) and (iii) above;  
     
  (v)                                     The Committee will provide a narrative description of how it limited, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, the features in (A) SEO compensation plans that could lead SEOs to take unnecessary and excessive risks that could threaten the value of AIG; (B) Employee compensation plans that unnecessarily expose AIG to risks; and (C) Employee compensation plans that could encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of AIG to enhance the compensation of an employee;  
     
  (vi)                                  AIG has required that bonus payments ( bonus payments ), as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ( EESA ), of the SEOs and next twenty most highly compensated employees be subject to a recovery or  clawback  provision during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period if the bonus payments were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric  

criteria to the extent required by the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA;  
     
  (vii)                               AIG has prohibited any golden parachute payment, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to an SEO or any of the next five most highly compensated employees during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period;  
     
  (viii)                            During any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, AIG has limited bonus payments to its applicable employees, in accordance with section 111 of EESA and the regulations and guidance established thereunder, and has received approvals from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation for compensation payments and structures as required under the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, and has not made any payments inconsistent with those approved payments and structures;  
     
  (ix)                                  AIG and its employees have complied with the excessive or luxury expenditures policy (as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA) established by the Board of Directors of AIG, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, and any expenses that, pursuant to this policy, required approval of the Board of Directors, a committee of the Board of Directors, an SEO, or an executive officer with a similar level of responsibility were properly approved;  
     
  (x)                                     AIG is not required to meet the standard referred to in clause (x) of the model certification (the  Model Certification ) set forth in Appendix B to Section 30.15 of the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance issued under EESA;  
     
  (xi)                                  AIG will disclose the amount, nature, and justification for the offering during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period of any perquisites, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, whose total value exceeds $25,000 for any employee who was subject to the bonus payment limitations identified in paragraph (viii);  
     
  (xii)                               AIG will disclose whether AIG, the Board of Directors of AIG, or the Committee has engaged, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, a compensation consultant; and the services the compensation consultant or any affiliate of the compensation consultant provided during this period;  
     
  (xiii)                            AIG has prohibited the payment of any gross-ups, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to the SEOs and the next twenty most highly compensated employees during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period;  
     
  (xiv)                           AIG has substantially complied with all other requirements related to employee compensation that are provided in the agreements between AIG and Treasury, including any amendments;  
     
  ii    

(xv)                              AIG was not required to meet the standard referred to in clause (xv) of the Model Certification, as a result of the cessation of AIG s TARP period as of December 14, 2012; and  
     
  (xvi)                           I understand that a knowing and willful false or fraudulent statement made in connection with this certification may be punished by fine, imprisonment, or both. (See, for example, 18 U.S.C. 1001.)  

/s/   Robert H. Benmosche       

February   21, 2013           

Robert   H. Benmosche       

Date       

President   and Chief Executive Officer       

iii    

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 21
 a2212976zex-99_2.htm
 EX-99.2

Exhibit 99.2   
     
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   
     
   Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 111(B)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008   
     
  I, David L. Herzog, certify, based on my knowledge, that:  
     
  (i)                                         The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) of American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ) has discussed, reviewed, and evaluated with senior risk officers, at least every six months during any part of the period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending December 14, 2012 (the  most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period ), the senior executive officer ( SEO ) compensation plans and the employee compensation plans and the risks these plans pose to AIG;  
     
  (ii)                                      The Committee has identified and taken steps to limit, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, any features of the SEO compensation plans that could lead SEOs to take unnecessary and excessive risks that could threaten the value of AIG, and has identified any features of the employee compensation plans that pose risks to AIG and has taken all reasonable efforts to limit those features to ensure that AIG is not unnecessarily exposed to risks;  
     
  (iii)                                   The Committee has reviewed, at least every six months during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, the terms of each employee compensation plan and identified any features of the plan that could encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of AIG to enhance the compensation of an employee, and has limited those features that would encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of AIG;  
     
  (iv)                                  The Committee will certify to the reviews of the SEO compensation plans and employee compensation plans required under (i) and (iii) above;  
     
  (v)                                     The Committee will provide a narrative description of how it limited, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, the features in (A) SEO compensation plans that could lead SEOs to take unnecessary and excessive risks that could threaten the value of AIG; (B) Employee compensation plans that unnecessarily expose AIG to risks; and (C) Employee compensation plans that could encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of AIG to enhance the compensation of an employee;  
     
  (vi)                                  AIG has required that bonus payments ( bonus payments ), as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ( EESA ), of the SEOs and next twenty most highly compensated employees be subject to a recovery or  clawback  provision during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period if the bonus payments were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric  

criteria to the extent required by the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA;  
     
  (vii)                               AIG has prohibited any golden parachute payment, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to an SEO or any of the next five most highly compensated employees during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period;  
     
  (viii)                            During any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, AIG has limited bonus payments to its applicable employees, in accordance with section 111 of EESA and the regulations and guidance established thereunder, and has received approvals from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation for compensation payments and structures as required under the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, and has not made any payments inconsistent with those approved payments and structures;  
     
  (ix)                                  AIG and its employees have complied with the excessive or luxury expenditures policy (as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA) established by the Board of Directors of AIG, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, and any expenses that, pursuant to this policy, required approval of the Board of Directors, a committee of the Board of Directors, an SEO, or an executive officer with a similar level of responsibility were properly approved;  
     
  (x)                                     AIG is not required to meet the standard referred to in clause (x) of the model certification (the  Model Certification ) set forth in Appendix B to Section 30.15 of the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance issued under EESA;  
     
  (xi)                                  AIG will disclose the amount, nature, and justification for the offering during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period of any perquisites, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, whose total value exceeds $25,000 for any employee who was subject to the bonus payment limitations identified in paragraph (viii);  
     
  (xii)                               AIG will disclose whether AIG, the Board of Directors of AIG, or the Committee has engaged, during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period, a compensation consultant; and the services the compensation consultant or any affiliate of the compensation consultant provided during this period;  
     
  (xiii)                            AIG has prohibited the payment of any gross-ups, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to the SEOs and the next twenty most highly compensated employees during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period;  
     
  (xiv)                           AIG has substantially complied with all other requirements related to employee compensation that are provided in the agreements between AIG and Treasury, including any amendments;  
     
  ii    

(xv)                              AIG was not required to meet the standard referred to in clause (xv) of the Model Certification, as a result of the cessation of AIG s TARP period as of December 14, 2012; and  
     
  (xvi)                           I understand that a knowing and willful false or fraudulent statement made in connection with this certification may be punished by fine, imprisonment, or both. (See, for example, 18 U.S.C. 1001.)  

/s/   David L. Herzog       

February   21, 2013           

David   L. Herzog       
 
  Date       

Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       

iii    

</EX-99.2>

<EX-99.3>
 22
 a2212976zex-99_3.htm
 EX-99.3

Exhibit 99.3            

AIA Group Limited     

   Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 30 November 2011     

AIA Group Limited      

Contents   

Independent Auditor's report   
     
   4   

Consolidated Income Statement   

5   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   

6   

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   

7   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   

8   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   

9   

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Policies    

10   

1   
     
       Corporate information   

10   

2   
     
       Significant accounting policies   

10   

3   
     
       Exchange rates   

37   

4   
     
       Operating profit before tax   

38   

5   
     
       Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums   

38   

6   
     
       Segment information   

40   

Supplementary information to the Consolidated Income Statement   

7   
     
       Revenue   

48   

8   
     
       Expenses   

49   

9   
     
       Income tax   

50   

10   
     
       Earnings per share   

53   

11   
     
       Dividends   

54   

Supplementary information to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   

12   
     
       Intangible assets   

55   

13   
     
       Investments in associates   

56   

14   
     
       Property, plant and equipment   

57   

15   
     
       Investment property   

58   

16   
     
       Fair value of investment property and property held for use   

59   

17   
     
       Reinsurance assets   

59   

18   
     
       Deferred acquisition and origination costs   

60   

19   
     
       Financial investments   

60   

20   
     
       Derivative financial instruments   

67   

21   
     
       Fair value of financial instruments   

68   

22   
     
       Other assets   

75   

23   
     
       Cash and cash equivalents   

76   

24   
     
       Insurance contract liabilities   

76   

25   
     
       Investment contract liabilities   

79   

26   
     
       Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates   

79   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
2  

AIA Group Limited   

Contents (continued)   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
3  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AIA GROUP LIMITED     

(incorporated
in Hong Kong with limited liability)   

  In
our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, the
financial position of AIA Group Limited and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in
conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

   PricewaterhouseCoopers    
Certified Public Accountants 
Hong Kong 
24 February 2012   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
4  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Income Statement     

Note       (1)        Based upon shares outstanding at 30 November 2011 that are entitled to a dividend.      

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
5  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
6  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position     

Approved and authorised for issue by the board of directors on 24 February 2012 

) 

) 

) Directors 

) 

)

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
7  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
8  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     

  Cash
flows presented in this statement cover all the Group's activities and include flows from unit-linked contracts, participating funds, and other policyholder and shareholder
activities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
9  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Policies     

1.    Corporate information     

AIA Group Limited (the Company) was established as a company with limited liability incorporated in Hong Kong on 24 August 2009. The address of its registered office is 35/F, AIA Central, 1
Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong.   

  AIA
Group Limited is listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited under the stock code "1299" with American Depositary Receipts (Level 1) being traded on the
over-the-counter market (ticker symbol: AAGIY).   

  AIA
Group Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively 'the AIA Group' or 'the Group') is a life insurance based financial services provider operating in 15 jurisdictions throughout the Asia Pacific
region. The Group's principal activity is the writing of life insurance business, providing life, pensions and accident and health insurance throughout Asia, and distributing related investment and
other financial services products to its customers.      

2.    Significant accounting policies     

2.1    Basis of preparation and statement of compliance     

  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ('IFRS'), Hong Kong Financial
Reporting Standards ('HKFRS') and the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance. HKFRS is substantially consistent with IFRS and the accounting policy selections that the Group has made in preparing these
consolidated financial statements are such that the Group is able to comply with both IFRS and HKFRS. References to IFRS, International Accounting Standards ('IAS') and International Financial
Reporting Interpretation Committee ('IFRIC') in these consolidated financial statements should be read as referring to the equivalent HKFRS, Hong Kong Accounting Standards ('HKAS') and Hong Kong
(IFRIC) Interpretations ('HK (IFRIC)   Int') as the case may be. Accordingly, there are no differences of accounting practice between IFRS and HKFRS affecting these consolidated
financial statements.   

  The
consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2012.   

The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, certain financial assets and
liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments, all of which are carried at fair value.   

  The
accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as described below. In addition, the Group reclassified receivables of US$1,100m to other assets in the
consolidated statement of financial position as of 30 November 2010 to be consistent with current year presentation.   

  During
2011, the Group changed the presentation for certain consolidated unit-linked investment funds to present on a gross basis the investment return and related investment expenses. The
impact of this during 2011, was an increase in investment return, as well as an increase in investment expenses of US$82 million in the consolidated income statement. In addition, in
Note 4, similar impacts are presented including increases in investment income related to unit-linked contracts of US$130 million, investment expenses related to
unit-linked contracts of US$82 million, and investment experience of US$48 million.   

  (a)   The
following new amendments to standards have been adopted by the Group for the financial year ended 30 November 2011:  

Amendments to IAS 17, Leases: Classification of leases of land and buildings. Before the amendments, the Group was
required to classify leasehold land as operating leases and to present leasehold land as prepayments in the consolidated statement of financial position. The amendments to IAS 17 have removed
such a requirement. The amendments require that the classification of leasehold land should be based on the general principles set out in IAS 17, that is, whether or not substantially all the
risks and rewards incidental to ownership of a leased asset have been transferred to the lessee.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
10  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.1    Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
(continued)   

In
accordance with the transitional provisions set out in the amendments to IAS 17, the Group reassessed the classification of unexpired leasehold land as at 30 November 2011 based on
information that existed at the inception of the leases. Leasehold land that qualifies for finance lease classification has been reclassified from prepayments on leasehold land to property, plant and
equipment or investment property on a retrospective basis. This resulted in prepayments on leasehold land with the carrying amounts of US$45m and US$587m as at 30 November 2011
(30 November 2010: US$115m and US$519m) being reclassified to property, plant and equipment and investment property respectively. As the impact is not material, an additional balance sheet for
year ended 30 November 2009 has not been presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. The application of the amendments to IAS 17 has not affected the measurement of
reported net income or equity.   

(b)   The
following new standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 December 2010 and have no material impact for the
Group:  

Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payments, Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions;    
           Amendments to IFRS 8, Operating Segments: Disclosure of information about segment assets;    
           Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows: Classification of expenditure on unrecognised assets;    
           Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets: Unit of accounting for goodwill impairment test;    
           Amendments to IFRS 3, Business Combinations, Transition requirements for contingent consideration from a business
combination that occurred before the effective date of the revised IFRS, Measurement of non-controlling interests, Un-replaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment
awards;   
           Amendments to IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations: Disclosures of
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued operations;   
           Amendments to IAS 18, Revenue, Determining whether an entity is acting as a principal or as an agent;
and  
           Amendments to IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, IAS 28, Investments in associates,
and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, Transition requirements for amendments arising as a result of IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements.    

  (c)   The
following new standards, new interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 November
2011 and 2010 and have not been early adopted (the financial years for which the adoption is planned and required are stated in parenthesis). The Group is yet to assess the full impact of these new
standards on its financial position and results of operations; however, they are not expected to have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Group but may require
additional disclosures:  

IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements (2014);   
           IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (2014);   
           IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, Revised definition of related parties (as revised in 2009) (2012);    
           IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements (as revised in 2011) (2014);   
           IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (as revised in 2011) (2014);    
           Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, Clarification of statement of changes in equity (2012);    
           Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (2013);    
           Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Clarification of disclosures (2012);    
           Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets
(2012);    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
11  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.1    Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
(continued)   

Amendments to IAS 12, Income Taxes, Recovery of underlying assets (2013);    
           Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
(2015);   
           Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
(2014); and  
           Amendment to IFRIC Int   14, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement (2012).    

  (d)   The
following new standards, new interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 November
2011 and 2010 and have not been early adopted (the financial years for which the adoption is planned and required are stated in parenthesis). The Group is yet to assess the full impact of these new
standards on its financial position and results of operations; however, they may have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Group and require additional
disclosures:  

IFRS 9, Financial Instruments (2016);   
           IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements (2014);   
           IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement (2014); and  
           IAS 19, Employee Benefits (as revised in 2011) (2014).    

  Items
included in the consolidated financial statements of each of the Group's entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates (the functional
currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of US Dollars (US$m) unless otherwise stated, which is the Company's functional currency, and the presentation currency of
the Company and the Group.   

  The
significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Group's consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been applied consistently in all periods
presented.   

2.2    Operating profit     

  The long-term nature of much of the Group's operations means that, for management's decision making and internal performance management
purposes, the Group evaluates its results and its operating segments using a financial performance measure referred to as 'operating profit'. The Group defines operating profit before and after tax
respectively as profit excluding the following non-operating items:  

investment experience (which consists of realised gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, impairments and
unrealised gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss);   
           investment income related to unit-linked contracts (consisting of dividends, interest income and rental
income);   
           investment management expenses related to unit-linked contracts;    
           corresponding changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities in respect of unit-linked contracts and
participating funds (see Note 2.3) and changes in third party interests in consolidated investment funds resulting from the above;   
           policyholders' share of tax relating to changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities;
and  
           other significant items that management considers to be non-operating income and expenses.    

  Whilst
these excluded non-operating items are significant components of the Group's profit, the Group considers that the presentation of operating profit enhances the understanding and
comparability of its performance and that of its operating segments. The Group considers that trends can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these non-operating
items, many of which are largely dependent on market factors.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
12  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.2    Operating profit (continued)   

  Operating
profit is provided as additional information to assist in the comparison of business trends in different reporting periods on a consistent basis and enhance overall understanding of
financial performance.   

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates     

Critical accounting policies     

  The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the Group to select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect
items reported in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other primary statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements. The Group considers its
critical accounting policies to be those where a diverse range of accounting treatments is permitted by IFRS and significant judgments and estimates are required.   

Product classification   

  IFRS 4,    Insurance Contracts   , requires contracts written by insurers to be classified either as insurance contracts or
investment contracts, depending on the level of insurance risk. Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, while investment contracts are those contracts without
significant insurance risk. Some insurance and investment contracts, referred to as participating business, have discretionary participation features, or DPF, which may entitle the customer to
receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional non-guaranteed benefits, such as policyholder dividends or bonuses. The Group applies the same accounting policies for the
recognition and measurement of obligations arising from investment contracts with DPF as it does for insurance contracts.   

  Accordingly,
the Group performs a product classification exercise covering its portfolio of contracts to determine the classification of contracts to these categories. Product classification requires
the exercise of significant judgment to determine whether there is a scenario (other than those lacking commercial substance) in which an insured event
would require the Group to pay significant additional benefits to its customers. In the event the Group has to pay significant additional benefits to its customers, the contract is accounted for as an
insurance contract. For investment contracts that do not contain DPF, IAS 39,    Financial Instruments: Measurement and Recognition   , and, if the
contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18,    Revenue Recognition   , are applied. IFRS 4 permits the continued use of previously
applied accounting policies for insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, and this basis has been adopted by the Group in accounting for such contracts.   

  The
judgments exercised in determining the level of insurance risk deemed to be significant in product classification affect the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as
insurance and investment contract liabilities and deferred acquisition and origination costs.   

Insurance contract liabilities (including liabilities in respect of investment contracts with DPF)   

  IFRS 4 permits a wide range of accounting treatments to be adopted for the recognition and measurement of insurance contract liabilities, including liabilities in
respect of insurance and investment contracts with DPF. The Group calculates insurance contract liabilities for traditional life insurance using a net level premium valuation method, whereby the
liability represents the present value of estimated future policy benefits to be paid, less the present value of estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. This method uses best
estimate assumptions adjusted for a provision for the risk of adverse deviation for mortality, morbidity, expected investment yields, policyholder dividends (for other participating business),
surrenders and expenses set at the policy inception date. These assumptions remain locked in thereafter, unless a deficiency arises on liability adequacy testing. Interest rate assumptions can vary by
geographical market, year of issuance and product. Mortality, surrender and expense assumptions are based on actual experience by each geographical market, modified to allow for variations in policy
form. The Group exercises significant judgment in making appropriate assumptions.   

For
contracts with an explicit account balance, such as universal life and unit-linked contracts, insurance contract liabilities represent the accumulation value, which represents premiums
received and investment returns credited to the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
13  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

  policy
less deductions for mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges. Significant judgment is exercised in making appropriate estimates of gross profits, which are also regularly reviewed by
the Group.   

  Participating
business, consisting of contracts with DPF, is distinct from other insurance and investment contracts as the Group has discretion as to either the amount or the timing of the benefits
declared. In some geographical markets, participating business is written in a participating fund which is distinct from the other assets of the operating unit or branch. The allocation of benefits
from the assets held in such participating funds is subject to
minimum policyholder participation mechanisms which are established by applicable regulations. The extent of such policyholder participation may change over time.   

The
Group accounts for insurance contract liabilities for participating business written in participating funds by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits less estimated
future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. In addition, an insurance liability is recorded for the proportion of the net assets of the participating fund that would be allocated to
policyholders assuming all relevant surplus at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position were to be declared as a policyholder dividend based upon applicable regulations.
Establishing these liabilities requires the exercise of significant judgment. In addition, the assumption that all relevant performance is declared as a policyholder dividend may not be borne out in
practice. The Group accounts for other participating business by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits and non-guaranteed participation, less estimated
future net premiums to be collected from policyholders.   

  The
judgments exercised in the valuation of insurance contract liabilities (including contracts with DPF) affect the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as insurance contract
benefits and insurance contract liabilities.   

Deferred policy acquisition and origination costs   

  The costs of acquiring new insurance contracts, including commission, underwriting and other policy issue expenses which vary with and are primarily related to the
production of new business or renewal of existing business, are deferred as an asset. Deferred acquisition costs are assessed for recoverability in the year of policy issue to ensure that these costs
are recoverable out of the estimated future margins to be earned on the policy. Deferred acquisition costs are assessed for recoverability at least annually thereafter. Future investment income is
also taken into account in assessing recoverability. To the extent that acquisition costs are not considered to be recoverable at inception or thereafter, these costs are expensed in the consolidated
income statement.   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for traditional life insurance and annuity policies are amortised over the expected life of the contracts as a constant percentage of expected premiums. Expected premiums
are estimated at the date of policy issue and are applied consistently throughout the life of the contract unless a deficiency occurs when performing liability adequacy testing.   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for universal life and unit-linked contracts are amortised over the expected life of the contracts based on a constant percentage of the present value of
estimated gross profits expected to be realised over the life of the contract or on a straight-line basis. Estimated gross profits include expected amounts for mortality, administration,
investment and surrenders, less benefit claims in excess of policyholder balances, administrative expenses and interest credited. The interest rate used to compute the present value of estimates of
expected gross profits is based on the Group's estimate of the investment performance of the assets held to match these liabilities. Estimates of gross profits are revised regularly. Deviations of
actual results from estimated experience are reflected in earnings. The expensing of acquisition costs is accelerated following adverse investment performance. Likewise, in periods of favourable
investment performance, previously expensed acquisition costs are reversed, not exceeding the amount initially deferred.   

  The
costs of acquiring investment contracts with investment management services, including commissions and other incremental expenses directly related to the issue of each new contract, are deferred
and amortised over the period that investment management service provided. Such deferred origination costs are tested for recoverability at each reporting   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
14  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

  date.
The costs of acquiring investment contracts without investment management services are included as part of the effective interest rate used to calculate the amortised cost of the related
investment contract liabilities.   

  The
judgments exercised in the deferral and amortisation of acquisition and origination costs affect amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as deferred acquisition and origination
costs and insurance and investment contract benefits.   

Liability adequacy testing   

  The Group evaluates the adequacy of its insurance and investment contract liabilities with DPF at least annually. Liability adequacy is assessed by portfolio of contracts in
accordance with the Group's manner of acquiring, servicing and measuring the profitability of its insurance contracts. The Group performs liability adequacy testing separately for each geographical
market in which it operates.   

  For
traditional life insurance contracts, insurance contract liabilities, reduced by deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired on acquired insurance contracts are compared with the
gross premium valuation calculated on a best estimate basis, as of the valuation date. If there is a deficiency, the unamortised balance of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired on
acquired insurance contracts are written down to the extent of the deficiency. If, after writing down deferred acquisition costs for the specific portfolio of contracts to nil, a deficiency still
exists, the net liability is increased by the amount of the remaining deficiency.   

For
universal life and investment contracts with DPF, deferred acquisition costs, net of unearned revenue liabilities, are compared to estimated gross profits. If a deficiency exists, deferred
acquisition costs are written down.   

  Significant
judgment is exercised in determining the level of aggregation at which liability adequacy testing is performed and in selecting best estimate assumptions. The judgments exercised in
liability adequacy testing affect
amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as commission and other acquisition expenses, deferred acquisition costs and insurance contract benefits and insurance and investment
contract liabilities.   

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss   

  The Group designates financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if this eliminates or reduces an accounting mismatch between the recognition and measurement of
its assets and liabilities, or if the related assets and liabilities are actively managed on a fair value basis. This is the case for:  

financial assets held to back unit-linked contracts and held by participating funds;    
           financial assets managed on a fair value basis; and  
           compound instruments containing an embedded derivative which would otherwise require bifurcation.    

Available for sale financial assets   

  The available for sale category of financial assets is used where the relevant investments are not managed on a fair value basis. These assets principally consist of the
Group's portfolio of debt securities (other than those backing participating fund liabilities and unit-linked contracts). Available for sale financial assets are initially recognised at
fair value plus attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of available for sale securities, except for impairment losses and foreign
exchange gains and losses on monetary items, are recorded in a separate fair value reserve within total equity, until such securities are disposed of.   

  The
classification and designation of financial assets, either as at fair value through profit or loss, or as available for sale, determines whether movements in fair value are reflected in the
consolidated income statement or in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income respectively.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
15  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

Fair values of financial assets  

  The
Group determines the fair values of financial assets traded in active markets using quoted bid prices as of each reporting date. The fair values of financial assets that
are not traded in active markets are typically determined using a variety of other valuation techniques, such as prices observed in recent transactions and values obtained from current bid prices of
comparable investments. More judgment is used in measuring the fair value of financial assets for which market observable prices are not available or are available only infrequently.   

  Changes
in the fair value of financial assets held by the Group's participating funds affect not only the value of financial assets, but are also reflected in corresponding movements in insurance and
investment contract liabilities. This is due to an insurance liability being recorded for the proportion of the net assets of the participating funds that would be allocated to policyholders if all
relevant surplus at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position were to be declared as a policyholder dividend based on current local regulations. Both of the foregoing changes are
reflected in the consolidated income statement.   

  Changes
in the fair value of financial assets held to back the Group's unit-linked contracts result in a corresponding change in insurance and investment contract liabilities. Both of the
foregoing changes are also reflected in the consolidated income statement.   

Impairment of financial assets   

  Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for impairment regularly. This requires the exercise of significant judgment. A
financial investment is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amount and there is objective evidence of impairment to the investment.   

Share-based compensation   

  The Group has adopted a number of share-based compensation plans to retain, motivate and align the interests of eligible employees, directors and officers with those of the
Group. These share-based compensation plans are predominantly accounted for as equity-settled plans under which shares or options to purchase shares are awarded. The Group utilises a binomial lattice
model to calculate the fair value of the share option grants, a Monte-Carlo simulation model and/or discounted cash flow technique to calculate the fair value of the other share awards. These models
require assumption inputs that may differ from actual results due to changes in economic conditions. Further details of share-based compensation are provided in Notes 2.17 and 37.   

Use of estimates     

All estimates are based on management's knowledge of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and predictions of future
events and actions. Actual results can always differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.   

  The
table below sets out those items we consider particularly sensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.   

Item   

Accounting 
policy   

Insurance and investment contract liabilities  

2.5  

Deferred acquisition and origination costs  

2.5  

Liability adequacy testing  

2.5.1  

Impairment of financial instruments classified as available for sale  

2.6.3  

Fair value of financial instruments not traded in active markets  

2.6.2  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
16  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

  Further details of estimation uncertainty in respect of the valuation and impairment of financial instruments are given in Notes 21 and 29 respectively.
Further details of the estimation of amounts for insurance and investment contract liabilities and deferred acquisition and origination costs are given in Notes 24, 25, 26 and 18 respectively.   

2.4    Basis of consolidation     

Subsidiaries     

  Subsidiaries are those entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control over
financial and operating policies in order to gain economic benefits. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from consolidation from
the date at which the Group no longer has control. Intercompany transactions are eliminated.   

  The
Group utilises the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries, unless the acquisition forms part of the Group reorganisation of entities under common control.
Under this method, the cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of consideration payable, shares issued or liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of
acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill (see 2.11 below). Any surplus of the acquirer's interest in the subsidiary's net assets over the
cost of acquisition is credited to the consolidated income statement.   

  The
consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiaries in which AIA Group Limited has a controlling interest, using accounts
drawn up to the balance sheet date.   

Investment funds     

  In several countries, the Group has invested in investment funds, such as mutual funds and unit trusts. These invest mainly in equities, debt
securities and cash and cash equivalents. The Group's percentage ownership in these funds can fluctuate from day to day according to the Group's and third party participation in them. Where the Group
is deemed to control such funds, with control determined based on an analysis of the guidance in IAS 27 and SIC 12, they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than the Group
being classified as liabilities because there is a contractual obligation for the issuer to repurchase or redeem units in such funds for cash. These are presented as 'Third party interests in
consolidated investment funds' within other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. In instances where the Group's ownership of investment funds declines marginally below 50%
and, based on historical analysis and future expectations, the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27. Likewise,
marginal increases in ownership of investment funds above 50% which are expected to be temporary are not consolidated. Where the Group does not control such funds, they are not accounted for as
associates and are, instead, carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

Employee share-based trusts     

  Trusts are set up to acquire shares of the Company for distribution to participants in future periods through the share-based compensation schemes.
The consolidation of these trusts is evaluated in accordance with SIC 12; where the Group is deemed to control the trusts, they are consolidated. Shares acquired by the trusts to the extent not
provided to the participants upon vesting are carried at cost and reported as 'Shares held by employee share-based trusts' in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

Non-controlling interests     

  Non-controlling interests are presented within equity except when they arise through the minority's interest in puttable liabilities such
as the unit holders' interest in consolidated investment funds, when they are recognised as a liability, reflecting the net assets of the consolidated entity.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
17  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)     

2.4    Basis of consolidation     

  Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests, except when they arise through the minority's interest in puttable liabilities,
are treated as transactions between equity holders. As a result, any difference between the acquisition cost or sale price of the non-controlling interest and the carrying value of the
non-controlling interest is recognised as an increase or decrease in equity.   

Associates and joint ventures     

  Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but which it does not control. Generally, it is presumed that the Group has
significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% of
voting rights. Joint ventures are entities whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control arising from a contractual agreement.   

Gains
on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in the associates and joint ventures. Losses are also eliminated,
unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of an asset transferred between entities.   

  Investments
in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under this method, the cost of the investment in an associate, together with the Group's share of that entity's
post-acquisition changes to equity, is included as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position. Cost includes goodwill arising on acquisition. The Group's share of
post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement and its share of post-acquisition movement in equity is recognised in equity. Equity
accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has significant influence over the investment. If the Group's share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking,
additional losses are provided for, and a liability recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. The Group
accounts for investments in joint ventures that are subject to joint control using the proportionate consolidation method.   

The Company's investments     

In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost, unless impaired. The Company's
interests in investment funds such as mutual funds and unit trusts are designated at fair value through profit or loss.   

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts     

  Consistent accounting policies for the measurement and recognition of insurance and investment contracts have been adopted throughout the Group to
substantially all of its business.   

  In
a limited number of cases, the Group measures insurance contract liabilities with reference to statutory requirements in the applicable jurisdiction, without deferral of acquisition costs.   

Product classification     

  Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. These contracts may also transfer financial risk. Significant
insurance risk is defined as the possibility of paying significantly more in a scenario where the insured event occurs than in a scenario in which it does not. Scenarios considered are those with
commercial substance.   

  Investment
contracts are those contracts without significant insurance risk.   

  Once
a contract has been classified as an insurance or investment contract no reclassification is subsequently performed, unless the terms of the agreement are later amended.   

  Certain
contracts with DPF supplement the amount of guaranteed benefits due to policyholders. These contracts are distinct from other insurance and investment contracts as the Group has discretion in
the amount and/or timing of the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
18  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

  benefits
declared, and how such benefits are allocated between groups of policyholders. Customers may be entitled to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional benefits or
bonuses:  

that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;    
           whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the Group; and    
           that are contractually based on:  

the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract;    
           realised and/or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the issuer; or    
           the profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the contract.    

The
Group applies the same accounting policies for the recognition and measurement of obligations and the deferral of acquisition costs arising from investment contracts with DPF as it does to
insurance contracts. The Group refers to such contracts as participating business.   

  In
some jurisdictions participating business is written in a participating fund which is distinct from the other assets of the company or branch. The allocation of benefits from the assets held in
such participating funds is subject to minimum policyholder participation mechanisms which are established by regulation. The extent of such policy
participation may change over time. The current policyholder participation in declared dividends for locations with participating funds is set out below:   

In some jurisdictions participating business is not written in a distinct fund and the Group refers to this as other participating business.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
19  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

  The
Group's products may be divided into the following main categories:   

Policy type    

Description of benefits payable    
     
   Basis of accounting for: 
Insurance contract liabilities    
     
   Investment contract 
liabilities    

Traditional 
participating 
life assurance 
with DPF  
     
  Participating 
funds  
     
  Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends or bonuses, the aggregate amount of which is determined by the
performance of a distinct fund of assets and liabilities       The timing of dividend and bonus declarations is at the discretion of the insurer. Local
regulations generally prescribe a minimum proportion of policyholder participation in declared dividends  
     
  Insurance contract liabilities make provision for the present value of guaranteed benefits less estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. In addition, an insurance liability is recorded for the
proportion of the net assets of the participating fund that would be allocated to policyholders, assuming all performance would be declared as a dividend based upon local regulations  
     
  Not applicable, as IFRS 4 permits contracts with DPF to be accounted for as insurance contracts  

Other 
participating 
business  
      
   Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends or bonuses, the timing or amount of which are at the discretion of
the insurer taking into account factors such as investment experience  
      
   Insurance contract liabilities make provision for the present value of guaranteed benefits and non-guaranteed participation less estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders  
      
   Not applicable, as IFRS 4 permits contracts with DPF to be accounted for as insurance contracts  

Non-participating life assurance, annuities and other protection products  
      
   Benefits payable are not at the discretion of the insurer  
      
   Insurance contract liabilities reflect the present value of future policy benefits to be paid less the present value of estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. In addition, deferred profit
liabilities for limited payment contracts are recognised  
      
   Investment contract liabilities are measured at amortised cost  

Universal life  

Benefits are based on an account balance, credited with interest at a rate set by the insurer, and a death benefit, which may be varied by the customer  
      
   Insurance contract liabilities reflect the accumulation value, representing premiums received and investment return credited, less deductions for front  
      
   Not applicable as such contracts generally contain significant insurance risk  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
20  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

Policy type    

Description of benefits payable    
     
   Basis of accounting for: 
Insurance contract liabilities    
     
   Investment contract 
liabilities    

end loads, mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges. In addition, liabilities for unearned revenue and additional insurance benefits are recorded  

Unit-linked  

These may be primarily savings products or may combine savings with an element of protection.  
     
  Insurance contract liabilities reflect the accumulation value, representing premiums received and investment return credited, less deductions for front end loads, mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges. In
addition, liabilities for unearned revenue and additional insurance benefits are recorded  
     
  Investment contract liabilities are measured at fair value (determined with reference to the accumulation value)  

In
the notes to the financial statements, unit-linked contracts are presented together with pensions contracts for disclosure purposes.   

  The
basis of accounting for insurance and investment contracts is discussed in Notes 2.5.1 and 2.5.2 below.   

2.5.1    Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF   

Premiums     

  Premiums from life insurance contracts, including participating policies and annuity policies with life contingencies, are recognised
as revenue when due from the policyholder. Benefits and expenses are provided in respect of such revenue so as to recognise profits over the estimated life of the policies. For limited pay contracts,
premiums are recognised in profit or loss when due, with any excess profit deferred and recognised in
income in a constant relationship to the insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected benefit payments.   

Amounts
collected as premiums from insurance contracts with investment features but with sufficient insurance risk to be considered insurance contracts, such as universal life, and certain
unit-linked contracts, are accumulated as deposits. Revenue from these contracts consists of policy fees for the cost of insurance, administration, and surrenders during the period.   

  Upfront
fees are recognised over the estimated life of the contracts to which they relate. Policy benefits and claims that are charged to expenses include benefit claims incurred in the period in
excess of related policyholder contract deposits and interest credited to policyholder deposits.   

Unearned revenue liability     

  Unearned revenue liability arising from insurance contracts representing upfront fees and other non-level charges is
deferred and released to the consolidated income statement over the estimated life of the business.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
21  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

Deferred acquisition costs   

  The costs of acquiring new business, including commissions, underwriting and other policy issue expenses, which vary with and are
primarily related to the production of new business, are deferred. Deferred acquisition costs are subject to the testing of recoverability when issued and at least annually thereafter. Future
investment income is taken into account in assessing recoverability.   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for life insurance and annuity policies are amortised over the expected life of the contracts as a constant percentage of expected premiums. Expected premiums are estimated
at the date of policy issue and are consistently applied throughout the life of the contract unless a deficiency occurs when performing liability adequacy testing (see below).   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for universal life and unit-linked contracts are amortised over the expected life of the contracts based on a constant percentage of the present value of
estimated gross profits expected to be realised over the life of the contract or on a straight-line basis. Estimated gross profits include expected amounts to be assessed for mortality,
administration, investment and surrenders, less benefit claims in excess of policyholder balances, administrative expenses and interest credited. Estimated gross profits are revised regularly. The
interest rate used to compute the present value of revised estimates of expected gross profits is the latest revised rate applied to the remaining benefit period. Deviations of actual results from
estimated experience are reflected in earnings.   

  Unamortised
acquisition costs associated with internally replaced contracts that are, in substance, contract modifications, continue to be deferred and amortised. Any remaining unamortised balance of
deferred acquisition costs associated with internally replaced contracts that are, in substance, new contracts, are expensed.   

Deferred sales inducements     

  Deferred sales inducements, consisting of day one bonuses, persistency bonuses and enhanced crediting rates are deferred and amortised
using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortise acquisition costs when:  

the sales inducements are recognised as part of insurance contract liabilities;    
           they are explicitly identified in the contract on inception;   
           they are incremental to amounts credited on similar contracts without sales inducements; and    
           they are higher than the expected ongoing crediting rates for periods after the inducement.    

Unbundling     

  The deposit component of an insurance contract is unbundled when both of the following conditions are
met:  

the deposit component (including any embedded surrender option) can be measured separately (i.e. without taking into
account the insurance component); and   
           the Group's accounting policies do not otherwise require the recognition of all obligations and rights arising from the
deposit component.    

Bifurcation     

  To the extent that certain of the Group's insurance contracts include embedded derivatives that are not clearly and closely related to
the host contract, these are bifurcated from the insurance contracts and accounted for as derivatives.   

Benefits and claims     

  Insurance contract benefits reflect the cost of all maturities, surrenders, withdrawals and claims arising during the year, as well as
policyholder dividends accrued in anticipation of dividend declarations.   

  Accident
and health claims incurred include all losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related handling costs, a reduction for recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding
from previous years.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
22  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

  Claims
handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims, and are included in operating expenses.   

Insurance contract liabilities (including liabilities in respect of investment contracts with DPF)     

  These represent the estimated future policyholder benefit liability for life insurance policies.   

Future
policy benefits for life insurance policies are calculated using a net level premium valuation method which represents the present value of estimated future policy benefits to be paid, less the
present value of estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. The method uses best estimate assumptions set at the policy inception date, adjusted for a provision for the risk of
adverse deviation for mortality, morbidity, expected investment yields, dividends (for other participating business), surrenders and expenses, which remain locked in thereafter, unless a deficiency
arises on liability adequacy testing (see below).   

  Interest
rate assumptions can vary by country, year of issuance and product. Mortality assumptions are based on actual experience by geographic area and are modified to allow for variations in policy
form. Surrender assumptions are based on actual experience by geographic area and are modified to allow for variations in policy form.   

  For
contracts with an explicit account balance, such as universal life and unit-linked contracts, insurance contract liabilities are equal to the accumulation value, which represents
premiums received and investment returns credited to the policy less deductions for mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges.   

  Settlement
options are accounted for as an integral component of the underlying insurance or investment contract unless they provide annuitisation benefits, in which case an additional liability is
established to the extent that the present value of expected annuitisation payments at the expected annuitisation date exceeds the expected account balance at that date. Where settlement options have
been issued with guaranteed rates less than market interest rates, the insurance or investment contract liability does not reflect any provision for subsequent declines in market interest rates unless
a deficiency is identified through liability adequacy testing.   

  The
Group accounts for participating policies within participating funds by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits less estimated future net premiums to be collected
from policyholders. In addition, an insurance liability is recorded for the proportion of the net assets of the participating fund that would be allocated to policyholders assuming all performance
were to be declared as a dividend based upon local regulations. The Group accounts for other participating business by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits and
non-guaranteed participation, less estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders.   

Liability adequacy testing     

  The adequacy of liabilities is assessed by portfolio of contracts, in accordance with the Group's manner of acquiring, servicing and
measuring the profitability of its insurance contracts. Liability adequacy testing is performed for each geographic market.   

For
traditional life insurance contracts, insurance contract liabilities reduced by deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired on acquired insurance contracts, are compared to the gross
premium valuation calculated on a best estimate basis, as of the valuation date. If there is a deficiency, the unamortised balance of deferred acquisition cost and value of business acquired on
acquired insurance contracts are written down to the extent of the deficiency. If, after writing down the unamortised balance for the specific portfolio of contracts to nil, a deficiency still exists,
the net liability is increased by the amount of the remaining deficiency.   

For
universal life and investment contracts, deferred acquisition costs, net of unearned revenue liabilities, are compared to estimated gross profits. If a deficiency exists, deferred acquisition
costs are written down.   

Financial guarantees     

  Financial guarantees are regarded as insurance contracts. Liabilities in respect of such contracts are recognised as incurred.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
23  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

2.5.2    Investment contracts  

  Investment contracts do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be considered insurance contracts and are accounted for as a financial liability, other than
investment contracts with DPF which are excluded from the scope of IAS 39 and are accounted for as insurance contracts.   

  Revenue
from these contracts consists of various charges (policy fees, handling fees, management fees and surrender charges) made against the contract for the cost of insurance, expenses and early
surrender. First year charges are amortised over the life of the contract as the services are provided.   

Investment contract fee revenue   

  Customers are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, surrenders or other contract services. The fees may be
fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholder's account balance. The fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which
they are received unless they relate to services to be provided in future periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.   

Origination
and other 'upfront' fees (fees that are assessed against the account balance as consideration for origination of the contract) are charged on some non-participating investment
and pension contracts. Where the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are amortised and recognised over the expected term of the policy as an adjustment to the effective
yield. Where the investment contract is measured at fair value, the front end fees that relate to the provision of investment management services are amortised and recognised as the services are
provided.   

Deferred origination costs     

  The costs of acquiring investment contracts with investment management services, including commissions and other incremental expenses
directly related to the issue of each new contract, are deferred and amortised over the period that services are provided. Deferred origination costs are tested for recoverability at each reporting
date.   

  The
costs of acquiring new investment contracts without investment management services are included as part of the effective interest rate used to calculate the amortised cost of the related
investment contract liabilities.   

Investment contract liabilities     

  Deposits received in respect of investment contracts are not accounted for through the consolidated income statement, except for the
investment income and fees attributable to those contracts, but are
accounted for directly through the consolidated statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability, which reflects the account balance.   

  The
majority of the Group's contracts classified as investment contracts are unit-linked contracts. These represent investment portfolios maintained to meet specific investment objectives
of policyholders who generally bear the credit and market risks on those investments. The liabilities are carried at fair value determined with reference to the accumulation value (current unit value)
with changes recognised in income. The costs of policy administration, investment management, surrender charges and certain policyholder taxes assessed against customers' account balances are included
in revenue, and accounted for as described under 'Investment contract fee revenue' above.   

  Non
unit-linked investment contract liabilities are carried at amortised cost, being the fair value of consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of
principal payments such as transaction costs and front end fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest rate method of any difference between that initial amount and
the maturity value, and less any write down for surrender payments. The effective interest rate equates the discounted cash payments to the initial amount. At each reporting date, the unearned revenue
liability is determined as the value of the future best estimate cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate. Any adjustment is immediately recognised as income or expense in the consolidated
income statement.   

  The
amortised cost of the financial liability is never recorded at less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the time value of money where applicable, if the investment contract is
subject to a surrender option.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
24  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

2.5.3    Insurance and investment contracts   

Reinsurance     

  The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business, with retentions varying by line of business. The cost of reinsurance is
accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to account for such policies.   

  Premiums
ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position.   

  Reinsurance
assets consist of amounts receivable in respect of ceded insurance liabilities. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the reinsured insurance or
investment contract liabilities or benefits paid and in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.   

  To
the extent that reinsurance contracts principally transfer financial risk (as opposed to insurance risk) they are accounted for directly through the consolidated statement of financial position and
are not included in reinsurance assets or liabilities. A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified premiums or fees to be
retained by the reinsured.   

  If
a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the consolidated income statement. A reinsurance asset is impaired if there
is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract,
and the impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer can be reliably measured.   

Value of business acquired ('VOBA')     

  The value of business acquired ('VOBA') in respect of a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment contracts, either
directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset. If this results from the acquisition of an investment in a joint venture or an associate, the VOBA is held within the
carrying amount of that investment. In all cases, the VOBA is amortised over the estimated life of the contracts in the acquired portfolio on a systematic basis. The rate of amortisation reflects the
profile of the value of in-force business acquired. The carrying value of VOBA is reviewed annually for impairment and any reduction is charged to the consolidated income statement.   

Shadow accounting     

  Shadow accounting is applied to insurance and certain investment contracts where financial assets backing insurance and investment
contracts liabilities are classified as available for sale. Shadow accounting is applied to deferred acquisition costs, VOBA, deferred origination costs and the contract liabilities for investment
contracts with DPF to take into account the effect of unrealised gains or losses on insurance liabilities or assets that are recognised in equity in the same way as for a realised gain or loss
recognised in the consolidated income statement. Such assets or liabilities are adjusted with corresponding charges or credits recognised directly in shareholders' equity as a component of the related
unrealised gains and losses.   

Other assessments and levies     

  The Group is potentially subject to various periodic insurance related assessments or guarantee fund levies. Related provisions are
established where there is a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event. Such amounts are not included in insurance or investment contract liabilities but are included
under 'Provisions' in the consolidated statement of financial position.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
25  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)     

2.6    Financial instruments     

2.6.1    Classification of and designation of financial instruments   

Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss     

Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss comprise two categories:  

financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss; and   
           derivative assets and liabilities.    

  Management
designates financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if this eliminates a measurement inconsistency or if the related assets and liabilities are actively managed on a fair value
basis, including:  

financial assets held to back unit-linked contracts and participating funds;    
           other financial assets managed on a fair value basis; consisting of the Group's equity portfolio and investments held by
the Group's fully consolidated investment funds; and   
           compound instruments containing an embedded derivative, where the embedded derivative would otherwise require bifurcation.    

  Dividend
income from equity instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in investment income in the consolidated income statement, generally when the security becomes
ex-dividend. Interest income is recognised on an accrued basis. For all financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, changes in fair value are recognised in investment
experience.   

  Transaction
costs in respect of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are expensed as they are incurred.   

Available for sale financial assets     

  Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and receivables, are classified as available for sale.   

The
available for sale category is used where the relevant investments backing insurance and investment contract liabilities and shareholders' equity are not managed on a fair value basis. These
principally consist of the Group's debt securities (other than those backing participating funds and unit-linked contracts). Available for sale financial assets are initially recognised at
fair value plus attributable transaction costs. For available for sale debt securities, the difference between their cost and par value is amortised. Available for sale financial assets are
subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income from debt securities classified as available for sale is recognised in investment income in the consolidated income statement using the effective
interest method.   

  Unrealised
gains and losses on securities classified as available for sale are analysed between differences resulting from foreign currency translation, and other fair value changes. Foreign currency
translation differences on monetary available for sale investments, such as debt securities are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the consolidated income
statement as investment experience. For impairments of available for sale financial assets reference is made to the section 'Impairment of financial assets'.   

  Changes
in the fair value of securities classified as available for sale, except for impairment losses and relevant foreign exchange gains and losses, are recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in a separate fair value reserve within equity. Impairment losses and relevant foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.   

Realised gains and losses on financial assets     

  Realised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and amortised cost. Cost
is determined by specific identification.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
26  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.6    Financial instruments (continued)   

Recognition of financial instruments     

  Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the trade date, which is the date at which the Group commits
to purchase or sell the assets.   

Derecognition and offset of financial assets     

  Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset, it derecognises the financial
asset if it no longer has control over the asset. In transfers where control over the asset is retained, the Group continues to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. The
extent of continuing involvement is determined by the extent to which the Group is exposed to changes in the fair value of the asset.   

  Financial
assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.   

Loans and receivables     

  Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less any impairment losses. Interest
income from loans and receivables is recognised in investment income in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method.   

Term deposits     

  Deposits include time deposits with financial institutions which do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents as their maturity at
acquisition exceeds three months. Certain of these balances are subject to regulatory or other restriction as disclosed in Note 19 Loans and Deposits. Deposits are stated at face value.   

Cash and cash equivalents     

  Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with maturities at
acquisition of three months or less, which are held for cash management purposes. Cash and cash equivalents also include cash received as collateral for securities lending as well as cash and cash
equivalents held for the benefit of policyholders in connection with unit-linked products. Cash and cash equivalents are stated at face value.   

2.6.2    Fair values of non-derivative financial assets   

  The
fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date, having regard to the specific characteristics of the asset or liability concerned, assuming that the transfer takes place in the most advantageous market to which the Group has access. The fair
values of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale securities) are based on quoted market prices at the
date of the consolidated statement of financial position. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. The fair values of financial instruments that
are not traded in active markets are determined using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions at the date of each
consolidated statement of financial position. The objective of using a valuation technique is to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the
date of the consolidated statement of financial position.   

  Financial
instruments carried at fair value are measured using a fair value hierarchy described in Note 21.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
27  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.6    Financial instruments (continued)   

  The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors,
including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market
conditions.   

2.6.3    Impairment of financial assets   

General     

  Financial assets are assessed for impairment on a regular basis. A financial asset is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable
amount and there is objective evidence of impairment to the financial asset.   

  The
Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset, or group of financial assets, is
impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a 'loss
event') and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.   

  Objective
evidence that a financial asset, or group of assets, is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following
events:  

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor;   
           a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments;   
           it becomes probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;    
           the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or    
           observable data, including market prices, indicating that there is a potential decrease in the estimated future cash flows
since the initial recognition of those assets, including:  

adverse changes in the payment status of issuers; or   
           national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk.    

For
loans and receivables, the Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for financial assets that are individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective
evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics
and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective
assessment of impairment.   

Available for sale financial instruments     

  When a decline in the fair value of an available for sale asset has been recognised in shareholders' equity and there is objective evidence that the
asset is impaired, the cumulative loss already recognised directly in shareholders' equity is recognised in current period profit or loss. The Group generally considers an
available for sale equity instrument for evidence of impairment if the fair value is significantly below cost or has been below cost for a prolonged period. If such assets are considered to be
impaired, the amount of the cumulative loss that is removed from shareholders' equity and recognised in current period profit or loss is the difference between acquisition cost (net of any principal
repayment and amortisation) and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised.   

  If
the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss
was recognised in income, the impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss on equity instruments classified as available for sale are not
reversed.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
28  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.6    Financial instruments (continued)   

Where,
following the recognition of an impairment loss in respect of an available for sale debt security, the asset suffers further falls in value, such further falls are recognised as an impairment
only in the case when objective evidence exists of a further impairment event to which the losses can be attributed.   

Loans and receivables     

  For loans and receivables, impairment is considered to have taken place if it is probable that the Group will not be able to collect principal and/or
interest due according to the contractual terms of the instrument. When impairment is determined to have occurred, the carrying amount is decreased through a charge to profit or loss. The carrying
amount of mortgage loans or receivables is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of any allowance is recognised as an impairment loss in profit or loss. The allowance is
determined using an analytical method based on knowledge of each loan group or receivable. The method is usually based on historical statistics, adjusted for trends in the group of financial assets or
individual accounts.   

2.6.4    Derivative financial instruments   

  Derivative
financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps that derive their value mainly from underlying foreign exchange rates and interest rates. All derivatives
are initially recognised in the
consolidated statement of financial position at their fair value, which represents their cost excluding transaction costs, which are expensed, giving rise to a day one loss. They are subsequently
remeasured at their fair value, with movements in this value recognised in profit or loss. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation
techniques such as discounted cash flow models or option pricing models. All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.   

Derivative instruments for economic hedging     

  Whilst the Group enters into derivative transactions to provide economic hedges under the Group's risk management framework, it does not currently
apply hedge accounting to these transactions. This is either because the transactions would not meet the specific IFRS rules to be eligible for hedge accounting or the documentation requirements to
meet hedge accounting criteria would be unduly onerous. These transactions are therefore treated as held for trading and fair value movements are recognised immediately in investment experience.   

Embedded derivatives     

  Embedded derivatives are derivatives embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments to create hybrid instruments. Where
the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not
measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.   

2.7    Segment reporting     

  An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activity from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses and, for which,
discrete financial information is available, and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group's chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Executive Committee of the Group
("Exco").   

2.8    Foreign currency translation     

  Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are translated into the Group's presentation currency at average exchange rates for the year as
this approximates to the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date. Their statements of financial position are translated at year or period end exchange rates. Exchange differences arising
from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to the currency translation reserve within equity. On disposal of a   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
29  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.8    Foreign currency translation (continued)   

  foreign
operation such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.   

  Foreign
currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies into functional currency, are recognised in the consolidated income statement.   

  Translation
differences on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss are included in investment experience. For monetary financial assets classified as available for sale,
translation differences are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the consolidated income statement. Foreign exchange movements on non-monetary
equities that are accounted for as available for sale are included in the fair value reserve.   

2.9    Property, plant and equipment     

  Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate cost less any residual value over the
estimated useful life, generally:   

Furniture, fixtures and office equipment  
     
  5 years  

Buildings  
     
  20-40 years  

Other assets  
     
  3-5 years  

Freehold land  
     
  No depreciation  

Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, when it is probable that future economic benefits will
flow to the Group. Repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.   

Residual
values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if applicable, at each reporting date. An asset is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying value is greater than the
estimated recoverable amount.   

  Any
gain and loss arising on disposal of property, plant and equipment is measured as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the relevant asset, and is recognised in
the consolidated income statement.   

  Where
the cost of the Group's leasehold land is known, or can be reliably determined at the inception of the lease, the Group records its interest in leasehold land and land use rights separately as
operating leases or finance leases depending on whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the land are transferred to the Group. These leases are recorded at original
cost and amortised over the term of the lease (see 2.19).   

2.10    Investment property     

  Property held for long-term rental that is not occupied by the Group is classified as investment property, and is carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.   

  Investment
property comprises freehold or leasehold land and buildings. Buildings located on leasehold land are classified as investment property if held for long-term rental and not
occupied by the Group. Where the cost of the land is known, or can be reliably determined at the inception of the lease, the Group records its interest in leasehold land and land use rights separately
as operating leases or finance leases depending on whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the land are transferred to the Group (see 2.19). These leases are
recorded at original cost and amortised over the term of the lease. Buildings that are held as investment properties are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives of
20-40 years.   

  If
an investment property becomes held for use, it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment. Where a property is partly used as an investment property and partly for the use of the Group,
these elements are recorded separately within property, plant and equipment and investment property respectively, where the component used as investment property would be capable of separate sale or
finance lease.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
30  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.10    Investment property (continued)   

  The
fair value of investment properties and property held for use is disclosed under Note 16. It is the Group's policy to perform external property valuation annually except in the case a
discrete event occurs in the interim that has a significant impact on the fair value of the properties.   

2.11    Goodwill and other intangible assets     

Goodwill     

  Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group's share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired
subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 December 2006 (the date of transition to IFRS) is carried at book value (original cost
less cumulative amortisation) on that date, less any impairment subsequently incurred. Goodwill arising on the Group's investment in subsidiaries since that date is shown as a separate asset, whilst
that on associates and joint ventures is included within the carrying value of those investments. With effect from the date of adoption of IFRS 3 (Revised) from 1 December 2009, all
acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.   

Other intangible assets     

  Other intangible assets consist primarily of acquired computer software and contractual relationships, such as access to distribution networks, and
are amortised over their estimated useful lives.   

  Acquired
computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Costs directly associated with the internal production of
identifiable and unique software by the Group that will generate economic benefits exceeding those costs over a period greater than a year, are recognised as intangible assets. All other costs
associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs of acquiring computer software licences and incurred in the internal production
of computer software are amortised using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which does not generally exceed a period of 3-15 years.   

The
amortisation charge for the year is included in the consolidated income statement under 'Operating expenses'.   

2.12    Impairment of non-financial assets     

  Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is
the higher of the asset's net selling price and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into cash generating units at the level of the Group's operating segments,
the lowest level for which separately identifiable cash flows are reported. The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are reviewed at least annually or when
circumstances or events indicate that there may be uncertainty over this value.   

  The
Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any objective evidence that its investments in associates are impaired. Such objective evidence includes whether there has been
any significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the associates operate or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in value below
their cost. If there is an indication that an interest in an associate is impaired, the Group assesses whether the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is recoverable. An
impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss for the amount by which the carrying amount is lower than the higher of the investment's fair value less costs to sell or value in use. Any reversal of
such impairment loss in subsequent periods is reversed through profit or loss.   

  Impairment
testing of the investments in subsidiaries and associates is required upon receiving dividends from these investments if the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the
subsidiaries or associates in the period the dividend is declared or if the carrying amount of the relevant investment in the Company's balance sheet exceeds its carrying amount in the consolidated
financial statements of the investee's net assets including goodwill.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
31  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)     

2.13    Securities lending including repurchase agreements     

  The Group has been party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third parties on a short term basis. The loaned
securities are not derecognised and so they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.   

Assets sold under repurchase agreements (repos)     

  Assets sold under repurchase agreements continue to be recognised and a liability is established for the consideration received. The Group may be
required to provide additional collateral based on the
fair value of the underlying assets, and such collateral assets remain on the consolidated statement of financial position.   

Assets purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos)     

  The Group enters into purchases of assets under agreements to resell (reverse repos). Reverse repos are initially recorded at the cost of the loan or
collateral advanced within the caption 'Other assets' in the consolidated statement of financial position. In the event of failure by the counterparty to repay the loan the Group has the right to the
underlying assets.   

Collateral     

  The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or non-cash assets in respect of securities lending transactions, and repo
and reverse repo transactions, in order to reduce the credit risk of these transactions. The amount and type of collateral depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty. Collateral
received in the form of cash, which is not legally segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the
repayment. Non-cash collateral received is not recognised on the consolidated statement of financial position unless the Group either sells or repledges these assets in the absence of
default, at which point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised as a liability. To further minimise credit risk, the financial condition of counterparties is monitored on a regular
basis.   

  Collateral
pledged in the form of cash which is legally segregated from the Group is derecognised from the consolidated statement of financial position and a corresponding receivable established for
its return. Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised (except in the event of default) and therefore continues to be recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position
within the appropriate financial instrument classification.   

2.14    Borrowings     

  Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less transaction costs incurred. Subsequently, borrowings are stated at amortised cost,
and any difference between net proceeds and redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. All
borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred, except for borrowing costs directly attributable to the development of investment properties and other qualifying assets, which are capitalised as
part of the cost of the asset.   

2.15    Income taxes     

The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, including any adjustments in respect of prior years. Tax is allocated to profit
or loss before taxation and amounts charged or credited to equity as appropriate.   

  Deferred
tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except as described
below.   

  The
principal temporary differences arise from the basis of recognition of insurance and investment contract liabilities, revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative
contracts, deferred acquisition costs and the future taxes arising on the surplus in life funds where the relevant local tax regime is distributions based. The rates
enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position are used to determine deferred tax.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
32  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.15    Income taxes (continued)   

  Deferred
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. In countries where there is a
history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is evidence that future profits will be available.   

  Deferred
taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or from goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or from
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and which affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.   

Deferred
tax related to fair value remeasurement of available for sale investments and other amounts taken directly to equity, is recognised initially within the applicable component of equity. It is
subsequently recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with the gain or loss arising on the underlying item.   

  In
addition to paying tax on shareholders' profits, certain of the Group's life insurance businesses pay tax on policyholders' investment returns ('policyholder tax') at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense and disclosed separately.   

2.16    Revenue     

Investment return     

  Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for the reporting period. Investment experience comprises realised gains and
losses, impairments and unrealised gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss. Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on
the investment. Rental income on investment property is recognised on an accruals basis. Investment return consists of investment income and investment experience.   

  The
realised gain or loss on disposal of an investment is the difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised cost as appropriate. Unrealised
gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase price if purchased during the year, less the reversal
of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.   

Other fee and commission income     

  Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund management fees, income from any incidental non-insurance activities,
distribution fees from mutual funds, commissions on reinsurance ceded and commission revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares. Reinsurance commissions receivable are deferred in the same way as
acquisition costs. All other fee and commission income is recognised as the services are provided.   

2.17    Employee benefits     

Annual leave and long service leave     

  Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the estimated
liability for annual leave and long service leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the reporting date.   

Post-retirement benefit obligations     

  The Group operates a number of funded and unfunded post-retirement employee benefit schemes, whose members receive benefits on either a
defined benefit basis (generally related to salary and length of service) or a defined contribution basis (generally related to the amount invested, investment return and annuity rates), the assets of
which are generally held in separate trustee administered funds. The defined benefit plans provide life and medical benefits for   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
33  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.17    Employee benefits (continued)   

  employees
after retirement and a lump sum benefit on cessation of employment, and the defined contribution plans provide post-retirement pension benefits.   

  For
defined benefit plans, the costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, the cost of providing benefits is charged to the consolidated income statement so as to
spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. The obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash
outflows, using a discount rate based on market yields for high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related liability. The resulting scheme surplus or deficit appears as an asset or liability in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

  For
each plan, AIA Group recognises a portion of its actuarial gains and losses in income or expense if the unrecognised actuarial net gain or loss at the end of the previous reporting period exceeds
the greater of:  

10% of the projected benefit obligations at that date; or  
           10% of the fair value of any plan assets at that date.    

  Any
recognised actuarial net gain or loss exceeding the greater of these two values is generally recognised in the consolidated income statement over the expected average remaining service periods of
the employees participating in the plans.   

  For
defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no further payment
obligations. The Group's contributions are charged to the consolidated income statement in the reporting period to which they relate and are included in staff costs.   

Share-based compensation and cash incentive plans     

  Following the public listing of the Group on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and the divestiture by AIG of more than 50% of the Group on
29 October 2010, the Group launched a number of share-based compensation plans, under which the Group receives services from the employees, directors and officers as consideration for the
shares and/or options of the Company. These share-based compensation plans comprise the Share Option Scheme ('SO Scheme'), the Restricted Share Unit Scheme ('RSU Scheme'), and the Employee Share
Purchase Plan ('ESPP'). Previously, the Group had various share-based compensation plans sponsored by AIG; in connection with AIG's divestiture of more than 50% of the Group on 29 October 2010,
all unvested incentive awards sponsored by AIG were considered to be unvested.   

  The
Group's share compensation plans are predominantly equity-settled plans. Under equity-settled share-based compensation plan, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the
grant of shares and/or options is recognised as an expense in profit or loss over the vesting period with a corresponding amount recorded in equity.   

  The
total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share and/or options granted. Non-market vesting conditions are included in
assumptions about the number of shares and/or options that are expected to be vested. At each period end, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares and/or options that are expected to be
vested. Any impact of the revision to original estimates is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to equity. Where awards of share-based payment arrangements have graded vesting
terms, each tranche is recognised as a separate award, and therefore the fair value of each tranche is recognised over the applicable vesting period.   

  The
Group estimates the fair value of options using a binomial lattice model. This model requires inputs such as share price, implied volatility, risk free interest rate, expected dividend rate and
the expected life of the option.   

  Where
modification or cancellation of an equity-settled share-based compensation plan occurs, the grant date fair value continues to be recognised, together with any incremental value arising on the
date of modification if non-market conditions are met.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
34  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.17    Employee benefits (continued)   

  For
cash-settled share-based compensation plans, the fair value of the employee services in exchange for the grant of cash-settled award is recognised as an expense in profit
or loss, with a corresponding amount recognised in liability. At the end of each reporting period, any unsettled award is remeasured based on the change in fair value of the underlying asset and the
liability and expense are adjusted accordingly.   

2.18    Provisions and contingencies     

  Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of
economic resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example
under an insurance contract held, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.   

The
Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.   

  Contingencies
are disclosed if material and if there is a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, but either a payment
is not probable or the amount cannot be reliably estimated.   

2.19    Leases     

  Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the Group as a lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Assets subject to such leases are included in property, plant and equipment or investment property, and are depreciated to their residual values over their estimated useful lives. Rentals from such
leases are credited to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the relevant lease. Payments made by the Group as lessee under operating leases (net of any
incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the relevant lease. The Group classifies amounts paid to acquire
leasehold land either as an operating lease prepayment or as a component of property, plant and equipment or investment property depending on whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental
to the ownership of the land are transferred to the Group.   

  There
are no freehold land interests in Hong Kong. The Group classifies the amounts paid to acquire leasehold land under operating leases and finance leases as operating lease prepayments and
property, plant and equipment or investment property respectively. Operating lease prepayments are included within 'Other assets'. Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the land on a
straight line basis over the terms of the lease.   

2.20    Share capital     

  Issued capital represents the nominal value of shares issued plus any share premium received from the issue of share capital.   

Share issue costs     

  Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the
issue.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
35  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.20    Share capital (continued)   

Dividends     

  Interim dividend on ordinary shares are recognised when they have been paid. Final dividend on ordinary shares are recognised when they have been
approved by shareholders.   

2.21    Presentation of the consolidated statement of financial position     

  The Group's insurance and investment contract liabilities and related assets are realised and settled over periods of several years, reflecting the
long-term nature of the Group's products. Accordingly, the Group presents the assets and liabilities in its consolidated statement of financial position in approximate order of liquidity,
rather than distinguishing current and non-current assets and liabilities. The Group regards its intangible assets, investments in associates and joint ventures, property, plant and
equipment, investment property and deferred acquisition and origination costs as non-current assets as these are held for the longer term use of the Group.   

2.22    Earnings per share     

  Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net profit available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the year.   

  Earnings
per share has also been calculated on the operating profit before adjusting items, attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the Directors believe this figure provides a better indication of
operating performance.   

  For
diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share options granted to
employees.   

  Potential
or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.   

2.23    Fiduciary activities     

  Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are excluded from these
consolidated financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights to the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.   

2.24    Consolidated statement of cash flow     

  The consolidated statement of cash flow presents movements in cash and cash equivalents as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

  Purchases
and sales of financial investments are included in operating cash flows as the purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the origination of insurance and investment contracts, net
of payments of related benefits and claims. Purchases and sales of investment property are included within investing cash flows.   

2.25    Related party transactions     

  Transactions with related parties are recorded at amounts mutually agreed and transacted between the parties to the arrangement.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
36  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

3.    Exchange rates     

  The
Group's principal overseas operations during the reporting period were located within the Asia Pacific region. The results and cash flows of these operations have been translated into US Dollars
at the following average rates:   

Assets and liabilities have been translated at the following year end rates:   

Exchange rates are expressed in units of local currency per US$1.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
37  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

4.    Operating profit before tax     

Operating profit before tax may be reconciled to net profit as follows:   

Restructuring costs represent costs related to restructuring programmes and are primarily comprised of redundancy and contract termination costs. Separation
costs are those significant and identifiable costs related to the Group's separation from AIG.      

5.    Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums     

For management decision making and internal performance management purposes, the Group measures business volumes during the year using a performance measure referred to as total weighted premium
income ('TWPI'), while the Group measures new business activity using a performance measure referred to as annualised new premiums ('ANP'). Both measures are reported gross of reinsurance ceded.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
38  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

5.    Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums (continued)    

  TWPI
consists of 100% of renewal premiums, 100% of first year premiums and 10% of single premiums and includes deposits and contributions for contracts that are accounted for as deposits in accordance
with the Group's accounting policies.   

  Management
considers that TWPI provides an indicative volume measure of transactions undertaken in the reporting period that have the potential to generate profits for shareholders. The amounts shown
are not intended to be indicative of premium and fee income recorded in the consolidated income statement.   

ANP
is a key internal measure of new business activities, which consists of 100% of annualised first year premium and 10% of single premium, before reinsurance ceded. ANP excludes renewal premiums and
first year premiums are reported on an annualised basis.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
39  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

5.    Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums (continued)    

Note:        (1)     ANP excludes new business of our corporate pension business, personal lines and motor insurance.    

6.    Segment information     

The Group's operating segments, based on the reports received by the Exco, are each of the geographical markets in which the Group operates. Each of the reportable segments, other than the 'Corporate
and Other' segment, writes life insurance business, providing life, pensions, and accident and health products to customers in its local market, and distributes related investment and other financial
services products. The reportable segments, as required to be disclosed separately under IFRS 8, are Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, Korea, Malaysia, China, Other Markets and Corporate and
Other. The Group's Hong Kong reportable segment includes Macau. The Group's Singapore reportable segment includes Brunei. Other Markets primarily includes the Group's operations in the Philippines,
Indonesia, Vietnam, India, Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan. The activities of the Corporate and Other segment consist of the AIA Group's corporate functions, shared services and eliminations of
intragroup transactions.   

  Because
each reportable segment other than the Corporate and Other segment focuses on serving the life insurance needs of its local market there are limited transactions between reportable segments.
The key performance indicators reported in respect of each segment are:  

ANP;   
           TWPI;   
           investment income (excluding investment income in respect of unit-linked contracts);    
           operating expenses;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
40  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)    

operating profit before tax (see Note 4);   
           expense ratio, measured as operating expenses divided by TWPI;   
           operating margin, measured as operating profit before tax (see above) expressed as a percentage of TWPI; and    
           operating return on allocated segment equity, measured as operating profit after tax attributable to shareholders of AIA
Group Limited expressed as a simple average of opening and closing allocated segment equity (being the segment assets less segment liabilities in respect of each reportable segment less
non-controlling interests, fair value and foreign currency translation reserves, and adjusted for subordinated intercompany debt).    

  In
presenting net capital in/(out) flows to reportable segments, capital outflows consist of dividends and profit distributions to the Corporate and Other segment and capital inflows consist of
capital injections into reportable segments by the Corporate and Other segment. For the Group, net capital in/(out) flows reflect the net amount received from shareholders by way of capital
contributions less amounts distributed by way of dividends.   

  Business
volumes in respect of the Group's five largest customers are less than 30 per cent of premiums and fee income.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
41  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Note:       (1)      Excludes investment income related to unit-linked contracts.
         Note:       (2)      Excludes corresponding changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities from investment experience for unit-linked
contracts and participating funds and investment income related to unit-linked contracts. It also excludes policyholders' share of tax relating to the change in insurance and investment
contract liabilities.
         Note:       (3)      Excludes investment management expenses related to unit-linked contracts.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
42  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Operating
profit/(loss) before tax may be reconciled to net profit/(loss) as follows:   

Allocated equity may be analysed as follows:   

Note:       (4)      Corporate and Other and Other Markets adjusted for subordinated intercompany debt provided to Other Markets of US$27m.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
43  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

  Segment information may be reconciled to the consolidated income statement as shown below:   

Other non-operating items in 2011 consist of restructuring and other
non-operating costs of US$50m (see Note 4).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
44  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Note:       (1)          Excludes investment income related to unit-linked contracts.
         Note:       (2)          Excludes corresponding changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities from investment
experience for unit-linked
contracts and participating funds and investment income related to unit-linked contracts. It also excludes policyholders' share of tax relating to the change in insurance and investment
contract liabilities.
         Note:       (3)          Excludes investment management expenses related to unit-linked contracts.
         Note:       (4)          Results of a subsidiary have been reclassified from China segment to Corporate and Other segment to
conform to current year presentation. As a
result, operating profit, allocated equity and net capital outflow of China segment have been increased by US$1m,US$(38)m and US$26m, respectively. The reclassification has no impact to the operating
profit, allocation equity and net capital outflow of the Group as of 30 November 2010.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
45  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Operating
profit/(loss) before tax may be reconciled to net profit/(loss) as follows:   

Allocated equity may be analysed as follows:   

Note:       (4)      Results of a subsidiary have been reclassified from China segment to Corporate and Other segment to conform to current year presentation. As a
result, operating profit, allocated equity and net capital outflow of China segment have been increased by US$1m,US$(38)m and US$26m, respectively. The reclassification has no impact to the operating
profit, allocated equity and net capital outflow of the Group as of 30 November 2010.              Note:       (5)
      Corporate and Other and Other Markets adjusted for subordinated intercompany debt provided to Other Markets of US$18m.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
46  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Segment
information may be reconciled to the consolidated income statement as shown below:   

Other non-operating items in 2010 consist of restructuring, separation and other non-operating costs of US$42m (see Note 4).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
47  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

7.    Revenue     

Investment return     

Other net realised gains include impairment of intangible assets of US$3m (2010: US$nil).   

Foreign
currency movements resulted in the following losses recognised in the income statement (other than gains and losses arising on items measured at fair value through profit or loss):   

Other operating revenue     

  The balance of other operating revenue largely consists of asset management fees.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
48  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

8.    Expenses     

Other operating expenses include auditors' remuneration of US$11m (2010: US$8m).   

  Investment
management expenses may be analysed as:   

Finance costs may be analysed as:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
49  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

8.    Expenses (continued)     

  Interest
expense includes US$4m (2010: US$5m) on bank loans, overdrafts and related party loans wholly repayable within five years.   

  Employee
benefit expenses consist of:   

9.    Income tax     

The tax benefit or expense attributable to Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia and New Zealand life insurance policyholder returns is included in the tax
charge or credit and is analysed separately in the consolidated income statement in order to permit comparison of the underlying effective rate of tax attributable to shareholders from year to year.
The tax attributable to policyholders' returns included above is US$47m charge (2010: US$135m charge).   

  The
provision for Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5%. Taxation for overseas subsidiaries and branches is charged at the appropriate current rates of taxation ruling in the relevant
jurisdictions of which the most significant jurisdictions are outlined below.   

The table above reflects the principal rate of corporate income taxes, as at the end of each year. The rate changes reflect changes to the enacted or
substantively enacted corporate tax rates throughout the period in each jurisdiction. The table above does not include prospective rate changes in corporate tax rates for Thailand and Korea which were
enacted after   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
50  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

9.    Income tax (continued)    

  30 November
2011. For Thailand, the corporate income tax rate will reduce to 23% for assessment year 2012 and 20% for assessment year 2013 and 2014 and will return to 30% for assessment year
2015 and onwards. For Korea, the corporate income tax rate was previously reduced to 22% for the assessment years beginning April 2012. Due to
changes in the tax law, the corporate income tax rate on the portion of assessable profits exceeding 20 billion Korean won will increase from 22% to 24.2% for the assessment years beginning
April 2012.   

Note:        (1)     Life insurance tax refers to the permanent differences which arise where the tax regime specific to the life insurance business does not adopt net
income as the basis for calculating taxable profit, for example Hong Kong, where life business taxable profit is derived from life premiums.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
51  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

9.    Income tax (continued)    

  The movement in net deferred tax liabilities in the period may be analysed as set out below:   

Note       (1)        Life surplus relates to the temporary difference which arises where the taxable profits are based on actual distributions from the
long-term fund. This primarily relates to Singapore and Malaysia.   
       (2)      Of the fair value reserve deferred tax charge/(credit) of US$66m (2010: US$286m) for 2011, US$69m (2010: US$290m)
relates to fair value gains and losses on available for sale financial assets and US$(3)m (2010: US$(4)m) relates to fair value gains and losses on available for sale financial assets transferred to
income on disposal and impairment.   
       (3)      The amount of US$(26)m includes a US$35m one-time adjustment in respect of deferred tax liability
attributable to policyholders' return.    

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
52  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

9.    Income tax (continued)    

  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that sufficient future taxable profits will be available for realisation. The Group has not recognised deferred
tax assets on tax losses and the temporary difference on insurance and investment contract liabilities arising from different accounting and statutory/tax reserving methodology for certain branches
and subsidiaries on the basis that they have histories of tax losses and there is insufficient evidence that future profits will be available.   

  Temporary
differences not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are:   

The Group has not provided deferred tax liabilities of US$53m (2010: US$48m) in respect of unremitted earnings of operations in one jurisdiction from which a
withholding tax charge would be incurred upon distribution as the Group does not consider it probable that this portion of accumulated earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future.   

  The
Group has unused income tax losses carried forward in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand. The tax losses of Hong Kong and Malaysia can be carried forward indefinitely.
The tax losses of the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand are due to expire within the periods ending 2014 (the Philippines), 2015 (Indonesia) and 2016 (Thailand).      

10.    Earnings per share     

Basic     

  Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to shareholders of AIA Group Limited by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares in issue during the year. The shares held by employee share-based trusts are not considered to be outstanding from the date of the purchase for purposes of computing basic and diluted
earnings per share.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
53  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

10.    Earnings per share (continued)     

Diluted     

  Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares. As of 30 November 2011, the Group has potentially dilutive instruments which are the share options, restricted share units and restricted share purchase units granted
to eligible employees, directors and officers under share-based compensation plans as described in Note 37. As of 30 November 2010, the Group had no potential dilutive instruments in
issue.   

At 30 November 2011, 20,426,519 share options were excluded from the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation as their effect would
have been anti-dilutive.   

Operating profit after tax per share     

  Operating profit after tax (see Note 4) per share is calculated by dividing the operating profit after tax attributable to shareholders of AIA
Group Limited by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. As of 30 November 2011, the Group has potentially dilutive instruments which are the share options,
restricted share units and restricted share purchase units to eligible employees, directors and officers under share-based compensation plans as described in Note 37. As of 30 November
2010, the Group had no potential dilutive instruments in issue.   

11.    Dividends     

Dividends to shareholders of the Company attributable to the year:   

Note       (1)        Based upon shares outstanding at 30 November 2011 that are entitled to a dividend.      

The above final dividend was proposed by the board on 24 February 2012 subject to shareholders approval at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2012. The
proposed final dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
54  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

12.    Intangible assets     

Of the above, US$250m (2010: US$241m) is expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.   

  Goodwill
arises primarily in respect of the Group's insurance businesses. Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the present value of expected future cash
flows plus a multiple of the present value of the new business generated.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
55  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

13.    Investments in associates     

The Group's interest in its principal associates is as follows:   

All associates are unlisted.   

Aggregated financial information of associates     

Investments in associates are held for their long-term contribution to the Group's performance and so all amounts are expected to be realised more
than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
56  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

14.    Property, plant and equipment     

The Group holds freehold land outside Hong Kong and leasehold land under finance lease in the form of property, plant and equipment. An analysis of the carrying
value of the Group's interest in those land and land use rights is set out in Note 22.   

The
Group holds property, plant and equipment for its long-term use and, accordingly, the annual depreciation charge approximates to the amount expected to be recovered through consumption
within 12 months after the end of the reporting period.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
57  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

15.    Investment property     

The Group holds investment property for the long-term, and so the annual amortisation charge approximates to the amount expected to be recovered
within 12 months after the reporting period.   

  The
Group leases out its investment property under operating leases. The leases typically run for an initial period of two to twelve years, with an option to renew the lease based on future
negotiations. Lease payments are usually negotiated every two years to reflect market rentals. None of the leases include contingent rentals. Rental income generated from investment properties
amounted to US$76m (2010: US$62m). Direct operating expenses (including repair and maintenance) on investment property that generates rental income amounted to US$9m (2010: US$10m).   

  The
Group owns investment property in the form of freehold land outside Hong Kong and leasehold land under finance lease. The Group does not hold freehold land in Hong Kong. An analysis of the
carrying value of the Group's interest in those land and land use right is set out in Note 22.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
58  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

15.    Investment property (continued)    

  The
future minimum operating lease rental income under non-cancellable operating leases that the Group expects to receive in future periods may be analysed as follows:   

16.    Fair value of investment property and property held for use     

Note       (1)        Carrying and fair values are presented before non-controlling interests and, for assets held in participating funds, before
allocation to policyholders.

17.    Reinsurance assets     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
59  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

18.    Deferred acquisition and origination costs     

Deferred acquisition and origination costs are expected to be recoverable over the mean term of the Group's insurance and investment contracts, and liability
adequacy testing is performed at least annually to confirm their recoverability. Accordingly, the annual amortisation charge, which varies with investment performance for certain universal life and
unit-linked products, approximates to the amount which is expected to be realised within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.      

19.    Financial investments     

  The
following tables analyse the AIA Group's financial investments by type and nature. The AIA Group manages its financial investments in two distinct categories:
Unit-linked Investments and Policyholder and Shareholder Investments. The investment risk in respect of Unit-linked Investments is generally wholly borne by our customers, and
does not directly affect the profit for the year before tax. Furthermore, unit-linked contract holders are responsible for allocation of their policy values amongst investment options
offered by the Group. Although profit for the year before tax is not affected by Unit-linked Investments, the investment return from such financial investments is included in the AIA
Group's profit for the year before tax, as the AIA Group has elected the fair value option for all Unit-linked Investments with corresponding change in insurance and investment contract
liabilities for unit-linked contracts. Policyholder and Shareholder Investments include all financial investments other than Unit-linked Investments. The investment risk in
respect of Policyholder and Shareholder Investments is partially or wholly borne by the Group.   

  Policyholder
and Shareholder Investments are further categorised as Participating Funds and Other Policyholder and Shareholder. The Group has elected to separately analyse financial investments held
by Participating Funds within Policyholder and Shareholder Investments as they are subject to local regulations that generally prescribe a minimum proportion of policyholder participation in declared
dividends. The Group has elected the fair value option for debt and equity securities of Participating Funds. The Group's accounting policy is to record an insurance liability for the proportion of
net assets of the Participating Fund that would be allocated to policyholders assuming all performance would be declared as a dividend based upon local regulations as at the date of the statement of
financial position. As a result the Group's net profit for the year before tax is impacted by the proportion of investment return that would be allocated to shareholders as described in the previous
sentence.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
60  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

  Other
Policyholder and Shareholder Investments are distinct from Unit-linked Investments and Participating Funds as there is no direct contractual or regulatory requirement governing the
amount, if any, for allocation to policyholders. The Group has elected to apply the fair value option for equity securities in this category and the available for sale classification in respect of the
majority of debt securities in this category. The investment risk from investments in this category directly impacts the Group's financial statements. Although a proportion of investment return may be
allocated to policyholders through policyholder dividends, the Group's accounting policy for insurance and certain investment contract liabilities utilises a net level premium methodology that
includes best estimates as at the date of issue for non-guaranteed participation. To the extent investment return from these investments either is not allocated to participating contracts
or varies from the best estimates, it will impact the Group's profit before tax.   

  In
the following tables, "FVTPL" indicates financial investments designated at fair value through profit or loss and "AFS" indicates financial investments classified as available for
sale.   

Debt securities     

  In compiling the tables, external ratings have been used where available. Where external ratings are not readily available an internal rating
methodology has been adopted. The following conventions have been adopted to conform the various ratings.   

External ratings   

Internal ratings    
     
   Reported as    

Standard and Poor's    
     
   Moody's    

AAA   
     
    Aaa   

1   

AAA   

AA+ to AA-   
     
    Aa1 to Aa3   

2+ to 2-   

AA   

A+ to A-   
     
    A1 to A3   

3+ to 3-   

A   

BBB+ to BBB-   
     
    Baa1 to Baa3   

4+ to 4-   

BBB   

BB+ and below   
     
    Ba1 and below   

5+ and below   

Below investment grade   
    (1)    

Note:        (1)     Unless otherwise identified individually.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
61  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

  Debt securities by type comprise the following:   

Note:        (1)     Of the total government bonds listed as 'Other' at 30 November 2011, 88% is rated as investment grade and a further 8% is rated BB-
and above. The balance is rated below BB- or unrated.   
       Note:       (2)     Government agency bonds comprise bonds issued by government sponsored institutions such as provincial and municipal authorities
and supranational financial institutions, such as the Asian Development Bank.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
62  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Note:        (3)     Structured securities include collateralised debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed
securities.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
63  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Note:        (1)     Of the total government bonds listed as 'Other' at 30 November 2010, 89% is rated as investment grade and a further 10% is rated
BB- and above. The balance is rated below BB- or unrated.   
       Note:       (2)     Government agency bonds comprise bonds issued by government sponsored institutions such as provincial and municipal authorities
and supranational financial institutions, such as the Asian Development Bank.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
64  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Note:        (3)     Structured securities include collateralised debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities.    

Equity securities     

  Equity securities by type comprise the following:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
65  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Debt and equity securities     

Loans and deposits     

Certain term deposits with financial institutions are restricted due to local regulatory requirements or other pledge restrictions. The restricted balance held
within the term deposits classification is US$130m (2010: US$113m).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
66  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

20.    Derivative financial instruments     

The Group's non-hedge derivative exposure was as follows:   

For swap transactions, both pay and receive legs of the transaction have been disclosed in the column 'notional amount'.   

  Of
the total derivatives, US$1m (2010: US$3m) are listed in exchange or dealer markets and the rest are over the counter ('OTC') derivatives. OTC derivative contracts are individually negotiated
between contracting parties and include forwards and swaps. Derivatives are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial
instruments.   

  Derivative
assets and derivative liabilities are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial
liabilities respectively. The Group's derivative risk management policies are outlined in Note 35. The Group does not employ hedge accounting, although most of its derivative holdings may have
the effect of an economic hedge of other exposures. The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities in the consolidated
statement of financial position as they do not represent the fair value of these transactions. The notional amounts in the previous table reflect the aggregate of individual derivative positions on a
gross basis and so give an indication of the overall scale of derivative transactions.   

Foreign exchange contracts     

  Forward exchange contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed price and
settlement date. Currency options are agreements that give the buyer the right to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at agreed prices and settlement dates.
Currency swaps are contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
67  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

20.    Derivative financial instruments (continued)    

Exposure
to gain and loss on the foreign exchange contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, implied
volatilities of the underlying indices, and the timing of payments.   

Interest rate swaps     

  Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two parties to exchange periodic payments in the same currency, each of which is computed on a
different interest rate basis, on a specified notional
amount. Most interest rate swaps involve the net exchange of payments calculated as the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest payments.   

Other derivatives     

  Warrants and call options are option agreements that give the owner the right to buy shares at an agreed price and settlement date. Credit default
swaps ("CDS") represent agreements that allow the transfer of third party credit risk from the protection buyer to the seller. The Group purchased the CDS as a protection on the specific corporate
debt portfolio by making a series of payments to the seller of the CDS. The Group will be compensated if the reference corporate debt defaults during the CDS contract period.

21.    Fair value of financial instruments     

The Group classifies all financial assets as either at fair value through profit or loss, or as available for sale, which are carried at fair value, or as loans and receivables, which are carried at
amortised cost. Financial liabilities are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, except for investment contracts with DPF which are accounted for under
IFRS 4.   

  The
following tables present the fair values of the Group's financial assets and financial liabilities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
68  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

Note:        (1)     Excludes third party interests in consolidated investment funds      

Note:        (1)     Excludes third party interests in consolidated investment funds      

  The carrying amount of assets included in the above tables represents the maximum credit exposure.   

Foreign
currency exposure, including the net notional amount of foreign currency derivative positions, is shown in Note 35 for the Group's key foreign exchange exposures.   

  The
fair value of investment contract liabilities measured at amortised cost is not considered to be materially different from the amortised cost carrying value.   

  The
carrying value of financial instruments expected to be settled within 12 months (after taking into account valuation allowances, where applicable) is not considered to be materially
different from the fair value.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
69  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

Fair value measurements on a recurring basis     

  The Group measures at fair value financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss, available for sale securities portfolios,
derivative assets and liabilities, investments held by investment funds which are consolidated, investments in non-consolidated investment funds and certain investment contract liabilities
on a recurring basis. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received on sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date.   

  The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active
markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in other than active markets or that do not have quoted
prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the asset
or liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.   

  An
other than active market is one in which there are few transactions, the prices are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which little
information is released publicly for the asset or liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial
instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market conditions.   

The
following methods and assumptions were used by the Group to estimate the fair value of financial instruments.   

Financial assets and liabilities     

Loans and receivables     

  For loans and advances that are repriced frequently and have had no significant changes in credit risk, carrying amounts represent a reasonable
estimate of fair values. The fair values of other loans are
estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using interest rates offered for similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings.   

  The
fair values of mortgage loans are estimated by discounting future cash flows using interest rates currently being offered in respect of similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings. The
fair values of fixed rate policy loans are estimated by discounting cash flows at the interest rates charged on policy loans of similar policies currently being issued. Loans with similar
characteristics are aggregated for purposes of the calculations. The carrying values of policy loans with variable rates approximate to their fair value.   

Debt securities and equity securities     

  The fair values of equity securities are based on quoted market prices or, if unquoted, on estimated market values generally based on quoted prices
for similar securities. Fair values for fixed interest securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. For those securities not actively traded, fair values are estimated using values
obtained from private pricing services or by discounting expected future cash flows using a current market rate applicable to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment. For holdings in
hedge funds and limited partnerships, fair values are determined based on the net asset values provided by the general partner or manager of each investment, the accounts of which are generally
audited on an annual basis. The transaction price is used as the best estimate of fair value at inception.   

Derivative financial instruments     

  The Group values its derivative financial assets and liabilities using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including
market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models
are used, the selection of a particular model to value a derivative depends on the contract terms of, and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing information
in the market. The Group generally uses similar models to   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
70  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

  value
similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and
correlations of such inputs. For derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be verified and model selection does not involve
significant management judgment. Examples of inputs that are generally observable include foreign exchange spot and forward rates, benchmark interest rate curves and volatilities for commonly traded
option products. Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatilities for less commonly traded option products and correlations between market factors.   

Cash and cash equivalents     

The carrying amount of cash approximates its fair value.   

Reinsurance receivables     

  The carrying amount of amounts receivable from reinsurers is not considered materially different to their fair value.   

Fair value of securities sold under repurchase agreement and the associated payables     

  The contract values of payables under repurchase agreements approximate fair value as these obligations are short term in nature.   

Other assets     

  The carrying amount of other assets is not materially different to their fair value. The fair values of deposits with banks are generally based on
quoted market prices or, if unquoted, on estimates based on discounting future cash flows using available market interest rates offered for receivables with similar characteristics.   

Investment contract liabilities     

  For investment contract liabilities the fair values have been estimated using a discounted cash flow approach based on interest rates currently being
offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued. For investment contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policyholder the fair
value generally approximates to the fair value of the underlying assets.   

  Investment
contracts with DPF enable the contract holder to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits. These are referred to as participating business and are measured and
classified according to the Group practice for insurance contract liabilities and hence are disclosed within Note 24. These are not measured at fair value as there is currently no agreed
definition of fair value for investment and insurance contracts with DPF under IFRS. In the absence of any agreed methodology it is not possible to provide a range of estimates within which fair value
is likely to fall. The IASB is expecting to address this issue in Phase II of its insurance contracts project.   

Borrowings     

  The fair values of borrowings with stated maturities have been estimated based on discounting future cash flows using the interest rates currently
applicable to deposits of similar maturities.   

Other liabilities     

  The fair values of other unquoted liabilities is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using current market rates applicable to their
yield, credit quality and maturity, except for those with no stated maturity, where the carrying value approximates to fair value.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
71  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)     

Fair value hierarchy     

  Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position are measured and classified in a hierarchy for
disclosure purposes consisting of three 'levels' based on the observability of inputs available in the market place used to measure their fair values as discussed below:   

Level 1:     Fair
value measurements that are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group has the ability to access as of the measurement date. Market price data is
generally obtained from exchange or dealer markets. The Group does not adjust the quoted price for such instruments. Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 1
are actively traded listed equities. The Group considers that government debt securities issued by G7 countries (United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom) and traded in
a dealer market to be Level 1, until they no longer trade with sufficient frequency and volume to be considered actively traded.     
            Level 2:     Fair
value measurements based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active and inputs
other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset and liability, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Assets and liabilities measured at
fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2 generally include government securities issued by non-G7 countries, most investment grade corporate bonds, hedge fund
investments and derivative contracts.     
            Level 3:     Fair
value measurements based on valuation techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are only used to measure fair value to the extent that relevant observable
inputs are not available, allowing for circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
and classified as Level 3 include certain classes of structured securities, certain derivative contracts, private equity and real estate fund investments, and direct private equity investments.    

  In
certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value
measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Group's assessment of the significance of a
particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, the Group considers factors specific to the asset or liability.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
72  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

  A
summary of investments carried at fair value according to fair value hierarchy is given below:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
73  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

The tables below set out a summary of changes in the Group's Level 3 financial assets and liabilities for the year ended 30 November 2010 and 2011.
The tables reflect gains and losses, including gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities categorised as Level 3 as at 30 November 2010 and 2011.   

Level 3 financial assets and liabilities     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
74  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)     

Realised gains and losses arising from the disposal of the Group's Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are presented in the consolidated income
statement.   

  Movements
in investment contract liabilities at fair value are offset by movements in the underlying portfolio of matching assets. Details of the movement in investment contract liabilities are
provided in Note 25.   

  There
are no differences between the fair values on initial recognition and the amounts determined using valuation techniques since the models adopted are calibrated using initial transaction prices.

22.    Other assets     

All amounts other than prepayments in respect of operating leases of leasehold land are expected to be recovered within 12 months after the end of the
reporting period. Prepayments in respect of operating leases of land are expected to be recovered over the period of the leases shown below.   

  Receivables
include receivables from reverse repurchase agreements under which the Group does not take physical possession of securities purchased under the agreements. Sales or transfers of
securities are not permitted by the respective clearing house on which they are registered while the loan is outstanding. In the event of default by the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
75  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

22.    Other assets (continued)    

  counterparty
to repay the loan, the Group has the right to the underlying securities held by the clearing house. At 30 November 2011, the carrying value of such receivables is US$156m (2010:
US$36m).   

  Below
sets out an analysis of the Group's interest in land and land use rights.   

23.    Cash and cash equivalents     

Note:        (1)     Of cash and cash equivalents, US$788m (2010: US$495m) are held to back unit-linked contracts.    

  Cash comprises cash at bank and cash in hand. Cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and highly liquid short term investments with maturities at acquisition of
three months or less and money market funds. Accordingly, all such amounts are expected to be realised within 12 months after the reporting period.      

24.    Insurance contract liabilities     

Note:   

(1)   

Valuation premiums and deposits and fees from account balances have been grossed up by US$205m in 2010 to conform to the current year presentation.   

(2)   

Premium deposits of US$249m, other policy benefits paid of US$(1,185)m, change in unearned revenue liabilities of US$301m and policyholders' share of participating surplus of US$743m in 2010 have been reclassified from "Other movements" to "Valuation
premiums and deposits", "Liabilities released for policy termination or other policy benefits paid and related expenses", "Fees from account balances", and "Change in net asset values to policyholders" respectively to conform to the current year
presentation.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
76  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

24.    Insurance contract liabilities (continued)     

Business description     

  The table below summarises the key variables on which insurance and investment contract cash flows depend.   

Type of contract    

Material terms and conditions    

Nature of benefits and 
compensation for claims    

Factors 
affecting 
contract cash 
flows    

Key 
reportable 
segments    

Traditional 
participating 
life assurance 
with DPF  
     
  Participating 
funds  
     
  Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends, the aggregate amount of which is determined by the performance of a
distinct fund of assets and liabilities. The timing of dividend declarations is at the discretion of the insurer. Local regulations generally prescribe a minimum proportion of policyholder participation in declared dividends  
     
  Minimum guaranteed benefits may be enhanced based on investment experience and other considerations  

Investment 
    performance 

Expenses 

Mortality 

Surrenders  
     
  Singapore, 
China, 
Malaysia  

Other 
participating 
business  
     
  Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends, the timing or amount of which is at the discretion of the insurer taking
into account factors such as investment experience  
     
  Minimum guaranteed benefits may be enhanced based on investment experience and other considerations  

Investment 
    performance 

Expenses 

Mortality 

Surrenders  
     
  Hong Kong, 
Thailand, 
Other Markets  

Traditional non-participating life  
     
  Benefits paid on death, maturity, sickness or disability that are fixed and guaranteed and not at the discretion of the insurer  
     
  Benefits, defined in the insurance contract, are determined by the contract and are not affected by investment performance or the performance of the contract as a whole  

Mortality 

Morbidity 

Lapses 

Expenses  
     
  All (1)   

Accident and health  
     
  These products provide morbidity or sickness benefits and include health, disability, critical illness and accident cover  
     
  Benefits, defined in the insurance contract are determined by the contract and are not affected by investment performance or the performance of the contract as a whole  

Mortality 

Morbidity 

Lapses 

Expenses 

Claims 
    experience  
     
  All (1)   

Unit-linked  

Unit-linked contracts combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depending on the value of unitised funds  
     
  Benefits are based on the value of the unitised funds and death benefits  

Investment 
    performance 

Lapses 

Expenses 

Mortality  
     
  All (1)   

Universal life  

The customer pays flexible premiums subject to specified limits accumulated in an account balance which are credited with interest at a rate set by the insurer, and a death benefit which may be varied by the
customer  
     
  Benefits are based on the account balance and death benefit  

Investment 
    performance 

Crediting rates 

Lapses 

Expenses 

Mortality  
     
  All (1)   

Note:        (1)     Other than the Group's corporate and other segment      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
77  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

24.    Insurance contract liabilities (continued)    

Methodology and assumptions   

  The most significant items to which profit for the period and shareholders' equity are sensitive are market, insurance and lapse risks which are shown
in the table below. Indirect exposure indicates that there is a second order impact. For example, whilst the profit for the period attributable to shareholders is not directly affected by investment
income earned where the investment risk is borne by policyholders (for example, in respect of unit-linked contracts), there is a second order effect through the investment management fees
which the Group earns by managing such investments. The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative sensitivity to each of these items. Where the direct
exposure is shown as being 'net neutral' this is because the exposure to market and credit risk is offset by a corresponding movement in insurance contract liabilities.   

Market and credit risk   

Direct exposure   

Type of contract    

Insurance and 
investment contract 
liabilities    

Risks 
associated with 
related investment 
portfolio    

Indirect exposure    

Significant 
insurance 
and lapse risks    

Traditional 
participating 
life assurance 
with DPF  
     
  Participating 
funds  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Investment performance subject to smoothing through dividend declarations  

Impact of persistency on future dividends 

Mortality  

Other 
participating 
business  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Investment performance  

Impact of persistency on future dividends 

Mortality  

Traditional non-participating 
life assurance  

Investment performance 

Credit risk 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Guarantees 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Not applicable  

Mortality 

Persistency 

Morbidity  

Accident and health  

Loss ratio 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Investment performance 

Credit risk 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Not applicable  

Claims experience 

Morbidity 

Persistency  

Pensions  

Net neutral 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Net neutral 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Performance related investment management fees  

Persistency  

Unit-linked  

Net neutral  

Net neutral  

Performance related investment management fees  

Persistency 

Mortality  

Universal life  

Guarantees 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Investment performance 

Credit risk 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Spread between earned rate and crediting rate to policyholders  

Mortality 

Persistency 

Withdrawals  

The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of its operations, and to interest rate risk, credit risk and equity price risk on assets representing net
shareholders' equity, and to expense risk to the extent that actual expenses exceed those that can be charged to insurance and investment contract holders on non-participating business.
Expense assumptions applied in the Group's actuarial valuation models assume a continuing level of business volumes.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
78  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

24.    Insurance contract liabilities (continued)     

Valuation interest rates   

  As at 30 November 2010 and 2011, the range of applicable valuation interest rates for traditional insurance contracts, which vary by territory,
year of issuance and products, within the first 20 years are as follows:   

25.    Investment contract liabilities     

26.    Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates     

The table below sets out the sensitivities of the assumptions in respect of insurance and investment contracts with DPF to key variables. This disclosure only allows for the impact on liabilities and
related assets, such as reinsurance, and deferred acquisition costs and does not allow for offsetting movements in the fair value of financial assets backing those liabilities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
79  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

26.    Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates (continued)    

  Future policy benefits for traditional life insurance policies (including investment contracts with DPF) are calculated using a net level premium valuation
method with reference to best estimate assumptions set at policy inception date unless a deficiency arises on liability adequacy testing. There is no impact of the above assumption sensitivities on
the carrying amount of traditional life insurance liabilities as the sensitivities presented would not have triggered a liability adequacy adjustment. During the periods presented there was no effect
of changes in assumptions and estimates on the Group's traditional life products.   

  For
interest sensitive insurance contracts, such as universal life products and unit-linked contracts, assumptions are made at each reporting date including mortality, persistency,
expenses, future investment earnings and future crediting rates.   

  The
impact of changes in assumptions on the valuation of insurance and investment contracts with DPF was US$12m decrease in profit (2010: US$15m decrease).      

27.    Borrowings     

Properties with a book value of US$762m at 30 November 2011 (2010: US$760m) and a fair value of US$1,809m at 30 November 2011 (2010: US$1,675m) and
cash and cash equivalents with a book value of US$66m (2010: US$63m) are pledged as security with respect to amounts disclosed as bank loans above. Interest on loans reflects market rates of interest.
Interest expense on borrowings is shown in Note 8. Further information relating to interest rates and the maturity profile of borrowings is presented in Note 35.

28.    Obligations under securities lending and repurchase agreements     

The Group has entered into securities lending agreement whereby securities are loaned to a national monetary authority. In addition, the Group has entered into repurchase agreements whereby securities
are sold to third parties with a concurrent agreement to repurchase the securities at a specified date.   

The
securities related to these agreements are not derecognised from the Group's consolidated statement of financial position, but are retained within the appropriate financial asset classification.
The following table specifies the amounts included within financial investments subject to securities lending or repurchase agreements at each period end:   

Collateral     

  The Group received collateral based on the initial market value of the securities lent in the form of promissory notes issued by the national monetary
authority; both the securities lent and the collateral are denominated in local currency. In   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
80  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

28.    Obligations under securities lending and repurchase agreements (continued)    

  the
absence of default, the Group cannot sell or repledge the collateral and it is not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

The
following table shows the obligations under repurchase agreements at each period end:   

29.    Impairment of financial assets     

Impairment of financial assets     

  In accordance with the Group's accounting policies, impairment reviews were performed for available for sale securities and loans and receivables.   

Available for sale debt securities     

  During the year ended 30 November 2011, impairment losses of US$nil (2010: US$1m) were recognised in respect of available for sale debt
securities.   

  The
carrying amounts of available for sale debt securities that are individually determined to be impaired at 30 November 2011 was US$59m (2010: US$57m).   

Loans and deposits     

  The Group's primary potential credit risk exposure in respect of loans and deposits arises in respect of policy loans and a portfolio of mortgage
loans on residential and commercial real estate (see Note 19 Financial investments for further details). The Group's credit exposure on policy loans is mitigated because, if and when the total
indebtedness on any policy, including interest due and accrued, exceeds the cash surrender value, the policy terminates and becomes void. The Group has a first lien on all policies which are subject
to policy loans.   

  The
carrying amounts of loans and deposits that are individually determined to be impaired at 30 November 2011 was US$39m (2010: US$30m).   

  The
Group has a portfolio of residential and commercial mortgage loans which it originates. To the extent that any such loans are past their due dates specific allowance is made, together with a
collective allowance, based on historical delinquency. Insurance receivables are short term in nature and cover is not provided if consideration is not received. An ageing of accounts receivable is
not provided as all amounts are due within 1 year and cover is cancelled if consideration is not received.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
81  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

30.    Provisions     

Further details of provisions for employee post-retirement benefits are provided in Note 36.   

Other provisions     

  Other provisions comprise provisions in respect of regulatory matters, litigation, reorganisation and restructuring. In view of the diverse nature of
the matters provided for and the contingent nature of the matters to which they relate the Group is unable to provide an accurate assessment of the term over which provisions are expected to be
utilised.      

31.    Other liabilities     

Third party interests in consolidated investment funds consist of third party unit holders' interests in consolidated investment funds which are reflected as a
liability since they can be put back to the Group for cash.   

  Trade
and other payables are all expected to be settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period. The realisation of third party interests in investment funds cannot be predicted
with accuracy since these represent the interests of third party unit holders in consolidated investment funds held to back insurance and investment contract liabilities and are subject to market risk
and the actions of third party investors.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
82  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

32.    Share capital and reserves     

Share capital     

There were no shares issued under share option schemes in the period.   

  Except
for the purchase of 30,540,802 shares by the Company under the Company's Restricted Share Unit Scheme and Employee Share Purchase Plan, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries
purchased, sold or redeemed any of the Company's listed securities during the financial year ended 30 November 2011. These purchases were made by the relevant scheme trustees on the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange. These shares are held on trust for participants of the relevant schemes and therefore were not cancelled. Please refer to Note 37 for details.   

  Share
premium of US$1,914m represents the difference between the net book value of the Group on acquisition by the Company of US$13,958m and the nominal value of the share capital issued of
US$12,044m.   

Reserves     

Fair value reserve     

  The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available for sale securities held at the end of the reporting period.   

Foreign currency translation reserve     

  The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements
of foreign operations.   

Shares held by employee share-based trusts     

  Trusts have been established to acquire shares of the Company for distribution to participants in future periods through the share-based compensation
schemes. Those shares acquired by the trusts, to the extent not transferred to the participants upon vesting, are reported as 'Employee share-based trusts'.   

Other reserves     

  Other reserves include the impact of merger accounting for business combinations under common control and share-based compensation.

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
83  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

33.    Non-controlling interests     

34.    Group capital structure     

Capital Management Approach     

  The Group's capital management objectives focus on maintaining a strong capital base to support the development of its business, maintaining the
ability to move capital freely and satisfying regulatory capital requirements at all times.   

  The
Group's capital management function oversees all capital related activities of the Group and assists senior management in making capital decisions. The capital management function participates in
decisions concerning asset-liability management, strategic asset allocation and ongoing solvency management. This includes ensuring capital considerations are paramount in the strategy and business
planning processes and when determining AIA's capacity to pay dividends to shareholders.   

Regulatory Solvency     

  The Group is in compliance with the solvency and capital adequacy requirements applied by its regulators. The Group's primary insurance regulator at
the AIA Co. and AIA-B levels is the Hong Kong Office of the Commissioner of Insurance ('HK OCI'), which requires that AIA Co. and AIA-B meet the solvency margin
requirements of the Hong Kong Insurance Companies Ordinance. The Hong Kong Insurance Companies Ordinance (among other matters) sets minimum solvency margin requirements that an insurer must meet in
order to be authorised to carry on insurance business in or from Hong Kong. The HK OCI requires AIA Co. and AIA-B to maintain an excess of assets over liabilities of not less than
the
required minimum solvency margin. The amount required under the Hong Kong Insurance Companies Ordinance is 100% of the required minimum solvency margin. The excess of assets over liabilities to be
maintained by AIA Co. and AIA-B required by the HK OCI is not less than 150% of the required minimum solvency margin.   

The
capital positions of the Group's two principal operating companies as of 30 November 2010 and 2011 are as follows:   

For these purposes, the Group defines total available capital as the amount of assets in excess of liabilities measured in accordance with the Insurance
Companies Ordinance and 'required capital' as the minimum required margin of solvency calculated in accordance with the Insurance Companies Ordinance. The solvency margin ratio is the ratio of total
available capital to required capital.   

  The
Group's individual branches and subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of government regulators in the jurisdictions in which those branches and subsidiaries operate and, in relation to
subsidiaries, in which they are incorporated. The various regulators overseeing the Group actively monitor our local solvency positions. AIA Co. and AIA-B submit annual filings to
the HK OCI of their solvency margin position based on their annual audited accounts, and the Group's other operating units perform similar annual filings with their respective local regulators.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
84  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

34.    Group capital structure (continued)    

  The
ability of the Company to pay dividends to shareholders and to meet other obligations depends ultimately on dividends and other payments being received from its operating subsidiaries and
branches, which are subject to contractual, regulatory and other limitations. The various regulators overseeing the individual branches and subsidiaries of the Group have the discretion to impose
additional restrictions on the ability of those regulated subsidiaries and branches to make payment of dividends or other distributions and payments to AIA Co., including increasing the
required margin of solvency that an operating unit must maintain. For example, capital may not be remitted from Thailand without the consent of the Office of the Insurance Commission in Thailand. The
payment of dividends, distributions and other payments to shareholders is subject to the oversight of the HK OCI.   

Capital and Regulatory Orders Specific to the Group     

  Since September 2008, certain regulators of the Group imposed additional requirements or restrictions on certain of its branches and subsidiaries.
These requirements and restrictions may be or may have been amended or revoked at the relevant regulator's discretion. As of 30 November 2011, the requirements and restrictions summarised below
may be considered material to the Group and remain in effect unless otherwise stated.   

Hong Kong Office of the Commissioner of Insurance   

  By a letter dated 18 September 2008 to AIA Co. and AIA-B ("Section 35 Controller Orders"), the Insurance Authority required AIA Co.
and AIA-B not to acquire a new controller who, alone or with any associate or through a nominee, is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 15% or more of the voting power at
their general meetings or the general meetings of their parent companies without first obtaining written consent from the Insurance Authority.   

  On
29 October 2010, the Insurance Authority varied the Section 35 Controller Orders such that prior consent of the Insurance Authority is not required where any person becomes a
controller (within the meaning of section 9(1)(c)(ii) of the HKICO) of AIA Co. and AIA-B through the acquisition of shares traded on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Stock
Limited (HKSE).   

  AIG
has given the Insurance Authority an undertaking that, with effect from 29 October 2010 and for so long as AIG directly or indirectly holds a legal or beneficial interest in AIA Group
Limited in excess of 10% of the outstanding or issued share capital of AIA Group Limited (or AIG directly or indirectly is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting
power at any general meeting of AIA Group Limited), AIG will ensure that, except with the prior written consent of the Insurance Authority:   

(i)    any
AIG Group holder of AIG's interest in AIA Group Limited that is controlled by AIG will abstain from voting in any shareholder vote of AIA Group Limited
for the approval of a dividend distribution to AIA Group Limited's shareholders; and
      (ii)    AIG
will not, either directly or indirectly or through a member of the AIG Group that AIG controls: (a) accept any deposit from any member of the
AIA Group; (b) be the recipient of any assets transferred from any member of the AIA Group except for (x) normal insurance transactions or any arrangements on normal commercial terms in
place as of the date of the undertaking (including renewals thereof), and (y) dividends distributed to shareholders of AIA Group Limited that have been approved by the other shareholders of AIA
Group Limited; or (c) accept any financial assistance (i.e., the granting of credit, lending of money, providing of security for or the guaranteeing of a loan) from any member of the AIA
Group.    

AIA
Group Limited has given to the Insurance Authority an undertaking that AIA Group Limited will:   

(i)    ensure
that (a) AIA Co. and AIA-B will at all times maintain a solvency ratio of not less than 150%, both on an individual insurer
basis and on an AIA Co./AIA-B consolidated basis; (b) it will not withdraw capital or transfer any funds or assets out of either AIA Co. or AIA-B that will
cause AIA Co.'s or AIA-B's solvency ratio to fall below 150%, except with, in either case, the prior written consent of the Insurance Authority; and (c) should the solvency
ratio of either AIA Co. or AIA-B fall below 150%, AIA Group Limited will take steps as soon as possible to restore it to at least 150% in a manner acceptable to the Insurance
Authority;    

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
85  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

34.    Group capital structure (continued)    

(ii)    ensure
that, for so long as AIG directly or indirectly holds a legal or beneficial interest in AIA Group Limited in excess of 10% of the outstanding or
issued share capital of AIA Group Limited (or AIG directly or indirectly is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting power at any general meeting of AIA Group
Limited), AIA Co. and AIA-B shall not, without first obtaining written consent from the Insurance Authority: (a) place any deposit with AIG and/or any member of the AIG Group
that AIG controls (excluding the Company, its subsidiaries and their branches); (b) transfer any assets to AIG and/or any member of the AIG Group that AIG controls (excluding the Company, its
subsidiaries and their branches), except for normal insurance transactions or any arrangements on normal commercial terms in place as of the date of the undertaking (including renewals thereof); or
(c) provide any financial assistance to AIG and/or any member of the AIG Group that AIG controls (excluding the Company, its subsidiaries and their branches);
      (iii)    notify
the Insurance Authority in writing as soon as the Company becomes aware of any person (a) becoming a controller (within the meaning of
Section 9(1)(c)(ii) of the HKICO) of AIA Co. and AIA-B through the acquisition of our Shares traded on the HKSE; or (b) ceasing to be a controller (within the meaning
of Section 9(1)(c)(ii) of the HKICO) of AIA Co. and AIA-B through the disposal of our Shares traded on the HKSE;
      (iv)    be
subject to the supervision of the Insurance Authority and AIA Group Limited will be required to continually comply with the Insurance Authority's
guidance on the "fit and proper" standards of a controller pursuant to Section 8(2) of the HKICO. The Insurance Authority is empowered by the HKICO to raise objection if it appears to it that
any person is not fit and proper to be a controller or director of an authorised insurer. These standards include the sufficiency of a holding company's financial resources; the viability of a holding
company's business plan for its insurance subsidiaries which are regulated by the Insurance Authority; the clarity of the Group's legal, managerial and operational structures; the identities of any
other holding companies or major regulated subsidiaries; whether the holding company, its directors or controllers is subject to receivership, administration, liquidation or other similar proceedings
or failed to satisfy any judgment debt under a court order or the subject of any criminal convictions or in breach of any statutory or regulatory requirements; the soundness of the Group's corporate
governance; the soundness of the Group's risk management framework; the receipt of information from its insurance subsidiaries which are regulated by the Insurance Authority to ensure that they are
managed in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulation; and its role in overseeing and managing the operations of its insurance subsidiaries which are regulated by the Insurance Authority;
and
      (v)    fulfil
all enhancements or improvements to the guidance referred to in sub-paragraph (iv) above, as well as administrative measures
issued from time to time by the Insurance Authority or requirements that may be prescribed by the Insurance Authority in accordance with the HKICO, regulations under the HKICO or Guidance Notes issued
by the Insurance Authority from time to time.

35.    Risk management     

Risk management framework     

  The managed acceptance of risk is fundamental to the Group's insurance business model. The Group's risk management framework seeks to effectively
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks the Group faces.   

  The
Group's central risk management framework requires all operations to establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the organisation. This risk management
framework has evolved in recent years and encompasses an established risk governance structure with clear oversight and assignment of responsibility for monitoring and management of financial,
operational and strategic risks.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
86  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

35.    Risk management (continued)     

Financial risk exposures     

  As an insurance group, the Group is exposed to a range of financial risks, including insurance risk, credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. The
Group applies a consistent risk management philosophy that is embedded in management processes and controls such that both existing and emerging risks are considered and addressed.   

The
following section summarises the Group's key risk exposures and the primary policies and processes used by the Group to manage its exposures to these risks.   

Insurance risk     

  The Group considers insurance risk to be a combination of the following component risks:  

Product design risk;   
           Underwriting and expense overrun risk;   
           Lapse risk; and   
           Claims risk    

Product design risk     

  Product design risk refers to potential defects in the development of a particular insurance product. The Group manages product design risk by
completing pre-launch reviews and approval of products by local and the Group functional departments, including product management, actuarial, legal, compliance and underwriting. These
departments have substantial experience and have developed significant expertise in identifying potential flaws in product development that could expose the Group to excessive risk.   

  The
Group monitors closely the performance of new products and focuses on actively managing each part of the actuarial control cycle to minimise risk in the in-force book as well as for
new products. A significant component of the Group's long-term insurance business is participating in nature where the Group has the ability to adjust dividends to reflect market
conditions. This reduces the Group's exposure to changes in circumstances, in particular investment returns, that may arise during the life of long-term insurance policies.   

Underwriting and expense overrun risk     

  Underwriting and expense overrun risk refers to the possibility of product related income being inadequate to support future obligations arising from
an insurance product.   

  The
Group manages underwriting risk by adhering to the Group underwriting guidelines. Each operating unit maintains a team of professional underwriters who review and select risks that are consistent
with the underwriting strategy of the Group. A second layer of underwriting review is conducted at the Group level for complex and large risks. Any exceptions require specific approval and may be
subject to separate risk management actions.   

  In
certain circumstances, such as when entering a new line of business, products or markets for which insufficient experience data is available the Group makes use of reinsurance to obtain product
pricing expertise.   

  In
pricing insurance products the Group manages expense overrun risk by allowing for an appropriate level of expenses that reflects a realistic medium to long-term view of the underlying
cost structure. A disciplined expense budgeting and management process is followed that controls expenses within product pricing allowances over the medium to long-term.   

Lapse risk     

  Lapse risk refers to the possibility of actual lapse experience that diverges from the anticipated experience assumed when products were priced. It
includes the potential financial loss due to early termination of contracts where the acquisition cost incurred may not be recoverable from future revenue.   

  The
Group carries out regular reviews of persistency experience. The results are assimilated into new and in-force business management. Target pay back periods that form part of the
product pricing controls enable monitoring of the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
87  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

  Group's
exposure to lapse risk. In addition, many of the Group's products include surrender charges that entitle the Group to additional fees on early termination by the policyholder, thereby reducing
exposure to lapse risk.   

Claims risk     

  Claims risk refers to the possibility that the frequency or severity of claims arising from insurance contracts exceeds the level assumed when the
products were priced.   

  For
insurance contracts where death and diagnosis of critical illness are the insured risk, the most significant factors that could increase the overall frequency of claims are epidemics (such as
AIDS, SARS or other communicable
conditions) or widespread changes in lifestyle resulting in earlier or more claims than expected. Other factors affecting the frequency and severity of claims include the
following:  

insurance risk under disability contracts is dependent on economic conditions. Recession and unemployment tend to increase
the number of claims for disability benefits as well as reduce the rate of recovery from disability;   
           insurance risk under hospitalisation contracts is dependent on medical costs and medical technology; and    
           insurance risk under accident contracts is more random and dependent on occupation.    

  The
Group seeks to mitigate claims risk by conducting regular experience studies, including reviews of mortality and morbidity experience, reviewing internal and external data, and considering the
impact of these on product design, pricing and reinsurance needs. As a result of the Group's history and scale, a substantial volume of experience data has been accumulated which assists in evaluation
and pricing of insurance risk.   

  Mortality
and morbidity risk in excess of the respective retention limits are ceded to reduce volatility in claims experience for the Group. The Group's capital position combined with its profitable
product portfolio and diversified geographical presence are factors in management's decision to retain (rather than reinsure) a high proportion of its written insurance risks.   

  Concentration
of insurance risk can be a cause of elevated claims risk and refers to the possibility of significant financial losses arising from a lack of diversification, either geographical or by
product type, of the Group's portfolio. Certain events, such as viral pandemics, may give rise to higher levels of mortality or morbidity experience and exhibit geographical concentrations.   

  The
breadth of the Group's geographical spread and product portfolio creates natural diversification and reduces the extent to which concentrations of insurance risk arise. The Group has a broad
geographical footprint across Asia and its results are not substantially dependent upon any one of these individual markets. This breadth provides a natural diversification of geographic
concentrations of insurance and other risks (such as political risks). However, given the Group's exposure to Asia, it may be relatively more exposed to pandemics localised in Asia than insurance
groups with a worldwide presence.   

  Although
long-term insurance and investment business are the Group's primary operations, the Group has a range of product offerings, such as term life, accident and health, participating,
annuity and unit-linked, which vary in the extent and nature of risk coverage and thereby reduce exposures to concentrations of mortality or morbidity risk.   

  Concentrations
of risk are managed within each market through the monitoring of product sales and size of the in-force book by product group. The Group mitigates this risk by adhering to
the underwriting and claims management policies and procedures that have been developed based on extensive historical experience. Lastly, reinsurance solutions are also used to help reduce
concentration risk.   

Credit risk     

  Credit risk arises from the possibility of financial loss arising from default by borrowers and transactional counterparties and the decrease in the
value of financial instruments due to deterioration in credit quality. The key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk include repayment risk in respect of:  

cash and cash equivalents including bank deposits, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
88  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

investments in debt securities, both sovereign and corporate;   
           loans and receivables (including insurance receivables);   
           derivative contracts; and   
           reinsurance receivables.    

  The
geographical concentration of the Group's government bonds is disclosed in Note 19.   

  The
Group has in place a credit analysis process that accounts for diverse factors, including market conditions, industry specific conditions, company cash flows and quality of collateral. The Group
also has a monitoring programme in place whereby the Group's credit analysis teams review the status of the obligor on a regular basis to anticipate any credit issues.   

Cross-border
investment exposures are controlled through the assignment of individual country counterparty risk limits by the Credit Risk Management Committee, a sub-committee of the ALM
Committee.   

  The
Group monitors its credit exposures to any single unrelated external reinsurer or group.   

  The
maximum exposure to credit risk for loans and receivables, debt securities and cash and cash equivalents is the carrying value (net of allowances) in the consolidated statement of financial
position.   

Market risk     

Market risk arises from the possibility of financial loss caused by changes in financial instruments' fair values or future cash flows due to
fluctuations in key variables, including interest rates, equity market prices, foreign exchange rates and real estate property market prices.   

  The
Group manages the risk of market-based fluctuations in the value of the Group's investments, as well as liabilities with exposure to market risk.   

  The
Group uses various quantitative measures to assess market risk, including sensitivity analysis. The level of movements in market factors on which the sensitivity analysis is based were determined
based on economic forecasts and historical experience of variations in these factors.   

  The
Group routinely conducts sensitivity analysis of its fixed income portfolios to estimate its exposure to movements in interest rates. The Group's fixed income sensitivity analysis is primarily a
duration-based approach.   

Interest rate risk     

  The Group's exposure to interest rate risk predominantly arises from the Group's duration gap between the liabilities and assets for interest rate
sensitive products, especially those providing interest rate guarantees. For other products, including those with participation or unit-linked features, interest rate risk is significantly
reduced due to the non-guaranteed nature of additional policyholder benefits. The Group manages its interest rate risk by investing in financial instruments with tenors that match the
duration of its liabilities as much as practicable and appropriate.   

  The
Group also considers the effect of interest rate risk in its overall product strategy. Certain products such as unit-linked, universal life and participating business, inherently have
lower interest rate risk as their design provides flexibility as to crediting rates and policyholder dividend scales. For new products, the Group emphasises flexibility in product design and generally
designs products to avoid excessive long-term interest rate guarantees. For in-force policies, policyholder bonus payout and credit interest rates applicable to policyholder
account balances are regularly adjusted considering, among others, the earned yields and policyholders' communications and reasonable expectations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
89  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

35.    Risk management (continued)     

Exposure to interest rate risk     

  The table below summarises the nature of the interest rate risk associated with financial assets, financial liabilities and insurance contract
liabilities. In preparing this analysis, fixed rate interest bearing instruments that mature or reprice within 12 months of the reporting date have been disclosed as variable rate instruments.
The contractual and estimated maturity dates of the liabilities are shown below.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
90  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

Foreign exchange rate risk     

  Foreign exchange risk arises from the Group's operations in multiple jurisdictions in the Asia Pacific region. Foreign currency risk associated with
assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies results in gains and losses being recognised in the consolidated income statement. Foreign currency risk associated with the
translation of the net assets of operations with non-US dollar functional currencies results in gains or losses being recorded directly in total equity.   

  On
a local operating unit level, we have invested in assets denominated in currencies that match the related liabilities, to the extent possible and appropriate, to avoid currency mismatches. However,
for yield enhancement and risk diversification purposes, the Group's business units also invest, in some instances, in instruments in currencies that are different from the originating liabilities.
These activities expose the Group to gains and losses arising from foreign exchange rate movements. The Group's business units monitor foreign currency exposures to ensure that these exposures are
undertaken within the Group's acceptable levels of risks. Foreign exchange positions may be closed or hedging instruments such as swaps, futures and forwards may be purchased to mitigate foreign
exchange risks.   

  The
Group's net foreign currency exposures and the estimated impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are set out in the tables below after taking into account the effect of economic hedges of
currency risk. Whilst providing economic hedges that reduce the Group's net exposure to foreign exchange risk, hedge accounting is not applied. Currencies for which net exposure is not significant are
excluded from the analysis below. In compiling the table below the impact of a 5% strengthening of original currency is stated relative to the functional currency of the relevant operation of the
Group. The impact of a 5% strengthening of the US dollar is also stated relative to functional currency. Currency exposure reflects the net notional amount of currency derivative positions as well as
net equity by currency.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
91  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

35.    Risk management (continued)     

Net exposure     

Equity market and interest rate risk     

  Equity market risk arises from changes in the market value of equity securities and equity funds. The investment in equity assets on a
long-term basis is expected to provide diversification benefits and return enhancements which can improve the risk adjusted return of the portfolios.   

Sensitivity analysis     

  Sensitivity analysis to the key variables affecting financial assets and liabilities is set out in the table below. Information relating to
sensitivity of insurance and investment contracts with DPF is provided in Note 26. The carrying values of other financial assets are not subject to changes in response to movements in interest
rates or equity prices. In calculating the sensitivity of debt and equity instruments to changes in interest rates and equity prices the Group has made assumptions about the corresponding impact of
asset valuations on liabilities to policyholders. Assets held to support unit-linked contracts have been excluded on the basis that
changes in fair value are wholly borne by policyholders. Sensitivity analysis for assets held in participating funds has been calculated after allocation of returns to policyholders using the
applicable minimum policyholders' participation ratios described in Note 2. Information is presented to illustrate the estimated impact on profits and equity arising from a change in a single
variable before taking into account the effects of taxation.   

  For
the purpose of illustrating the sensitivity of profit before tax and net assets before the effects of taxation to changes in interest rates and equity prices, the impact of possible impairments of
financial investments classified as available for sale   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
92  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

  which
may arise in times of economic stress has been ignored, since default events reflect the characteristics of individual issuers. Because the Group's accounting policies lock in interest rate
assumptions on policy inception and the Group's assumptions incorporate a provision for adverse deviations, the level of movement illustrated in this sensitivity analysis does not result in loss
recognition and so there is no corresponding effect on liabilities.   

Liquidity risk     

  Liquidity risk primarily refers to the possibility of having insufficient cash available to meet the payment obligations to counterparties when they
become due. This can arise when internal funds are insufficient to meet cash outflow obligations and where the Group is unable to obtain funding at market rates or liquidate assets at fair value
resulting in the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. The Group is exposed to liquidity risk in respect of insurance and investment policies that permit surrender, withdrawal or other
forms of early termination for a cash surrender value specified in the contractual terms and conditions.   

  The
Group's liquidity position is monitored in compliance with regulatory and internal requirements in combination with maturity gap analyses. To manage liquidity risk, the Group has implemented a
variety of measures, including emphasising flexible insurance product design so that it can retain the greatest flexibility to adjust contract pricing or crediting rates. The Group also seeks to
match, to the extent possible and appropriate, the duration of its investment assets with the duration of insurance policies issued.   

The
maturity analysis presented in the tables below presents the estimated maturity of carrying amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position. The estimated maturity for insurance and
investment contracts, is proportionate to their carrying values based on projections of estimated undiscounted cash flows arising from insurance and investment contracts in force at that date. The
Group has made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of insurance benefits and claims and investment contract benefits, which include assumptions in respect of
mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. The maturity
profile of the Group's borrowings is presented on the presumption that the Group will continue to satisfy loan covenants which, if breached, would cause the borrowings to be repayable on demand. The
Group regularly monitors its compliance with these covenants and was in compliance with them at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position and throughout each of the periods
presented. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the maturity profiles presented below could be materially different from actual payments.   

  A
maturity analysis based on the earliest contractual repayment date would present the insurance and investment contract liabilities as falling due in the earliest period in the table because of the
ability of policyholders to exercise surrender   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
93  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

  options.
Financial assets and liabilities other than investment contract liabilities are presented based on their respective contractual maturities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
94  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

36.    Employee benefits     

Defined benefit plans     

The Group operates funded and unfunded defined benefit plans that provide life and medical benefits for participating employees after retirement and a lump sum
benefit on cessation of employment. The locations covered by these plans include Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia, the Philippines and Korea. The latest independent
actuarial valuations of the plans were at 30 November 2011 and were prepared by credentialed actuaries of Mercer (Hong Kong) Limited. All the actuaries are qualified members of professional
actuarial organisations to render the actuarial opinions.   

  The
actuarial valuations indicate that the Group's obligations under these defined benefit retirement plans are 36% (2010: 47%) covered by the plan assets held by the trustees.   

  Plan
assets comprise:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
95  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

36.    Employee benefits (continued)    

Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations   

Movement in the fair value of plan assets     

Expense recognised in consolidated income statement     

The expense is recognised within the following line items in the consolidated income statement:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
96  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

36.    Employee benefits (continued)    

Actuarial assumptions   

  Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date are in the following ranges:   

The overall expected long-term rate of return is based on the portfolios as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset categories.
The return is based on historical returns without adjustment.   

Assumptions
regarding future mortality rates are based on published statistics and mortality tables. Average retirement ages and life expectancies are set out below for the principal locations with
defined benefit employee benefit.   

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates affect the amounts recognised in profit or loss. A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following
effects (expressed as weighted averages):   

Historical information     

Contributions to funded and unfunded defined benefit plans during the year ended 30 November 2011 are not expected to be material.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
97  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

36.    Employee benefits (continued)     

Defined contribution plans   

  The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was US$41m (2010:
US$34m). Employees and the employer are required to make monthly contributions equal to 5% to 22% of the employees' monthly basic salaries, depending on years of service and subject to any applicable
caps of monthly relevant income in different jurisdictions. For defined contribution pension plans with vesting conditions, any forfeited contributions by employers on behalf of employees who leave
the scheme prior to vesting fully in such contributions are used by the employer to reduce any future contributions. The amount of forfeited contributions used to reduce the existing level of
contributions is not material.   

  The
outstanding liability for defined contribution benefit plans is US$2m (2010: US$1m).      

37.    Share-based compensation     

Stock compensation plans     

  During 2011, the Group made its first grants of share options and restricted share units ('RSUs') to certain employees, directors and officers of the
Group under the SO Scheme and the RSU Scheme adopted on 28 September 2010. In addition, the Group has adopted an under which the eligible employees will be awarded one matching restricted stock
purchase unit for each two shares purchased through the qualified employee contributions at the end of the vesting period subject to conditions being met.   

  In
connection with AIG's divestiture of more than 50% of the Group on 29 October 2010, all equity-settled share-based compensation arrangements of AIG in which the Group's employees
participated were either settled or terminated; any unvested incentive awards associated with the terminated plans were treated as unvested.   

RSU Scheme   

  Under the RSU Scheme, the vesting of the granted RSUs is conditional upon the eligible participants remaining in employment with the Group during the respective vesting
periods. RSU grants are vested either entirely after a specific period of time or in tranches over the vesting period. For RSU grants that are vested in tranches, each vesting tranche is accounted for
as a separate grant for the purposes of recognising the expense over the vesting period. For certain RSUs, performance conditions are also attached which include both market and non-market
conditions. RSUs subject to performance conditions are released to the participants at the end of the vesting period depending on the actual achievement of the performance conditions. During the
vesting period, the participants are not entitled to dividends of the underlying shares. Except in
jurisdictions where restrictions apply, the granted RSUs are expected to be settled in equity; grants that the Group has the legal or constructive obligation to settle in cash are insignificant to the
Group. The maximum number of shares that can be granted under this scheme is 301,100,000, representing 2.5 percent of the number of shares in issue at 30 November 2011.   

SO Scheme   

  The objectives of the SO Scheme are to align eligible participants' interests with those of the shareholders of the Company by allowing eligible participants to share in the
value created at the point they exercise their options. Share   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
98  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

37.    Share-based compensation (continued)    

  option
('SO') grants are vested either entirely after a specific period of time or in tranches over the vesting period, during which, the eligible participants are required to remain in employment
with the Group. For SO grants made in
2011 that are vested in tranches, one-third of the share options become exercisable on 1 April 2014, 1 April 2015, and 1 April 2016 respectively; each vesting tranche
is accounted for as a separate grant for the purposes of recognising the expense over the vesting period. The granted share options ten years from the date of grant and each share option entitles the
eligible participant to subscribe for one ordinary share. Except in jurisdictions where restrictions apply, the granted share options are expected to be settled in equity; grants that the Group has
the legal or constructive obligation to settle in cash are insignificant to the Group. The total number of shares under options that can be granted under the scheme is 301,100,000, representing
2.5 percent of the number of shares in issue at 30 November 2011. The measurement date for grants made in 2011 was determined to be 15 June 2011in accordance with IFRS 2.   

Information
about options outstanding and options exercisable by the Group's employees and directors as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:   

ESPP   

  Under the plan, eligible employees of the Group can purchase ordinary shares of the Company with qualified employee contributions and the Company will award one matching
restricted share purchase unit to them at the end of the vesting period for each two shares purchased through the qualified employee contributions ('contribution shares'). Contribution shares are
purchased from the open market. During the vesting period, the eligible employees must hold the contribution shares purchased during the plan cycle and remain employed by the Group. The level of
qualified employee contribution is limited to not more than 5% of the annual basic salary subject to a maximum. During 2011, eligible employees paid less than US$1 million to purchase 232,328
ordinary shares of the Company.   

Valuation methodology   

  The Group utilises a binomial lattice model to calculate the fair value of the share options grants, a Monte-Carlo simulation model and/or discounted cash flow technique to
calculate the fair value of the RSU and ESPP awards, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The price volatility is estimated on the basis of implied
volatility of the Company's shares which is based on an analysis of historical data since they are traded in the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and takes into consideration the historical volatility of
peer companies (the constituent companies in Dow Jones Insurance Titans Indexin view of the short trading history of the Company's shares on the measurement date. The expected life of the options is
derived from the output of the valuation model and is calculated based on an analysis of expected exercise behaviour of the Company's employees. The estimate of market condition for   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
99  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

37.    Share-based compensation (continued)    

  performance-based
RSUs is based on one-year historical data preceding the grant date. No allowance for forfeiture prior to vesting is included in the valuation of the awards.   

  The
fair value calculated for share options are inherently subjective due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model utilised.   

*  Applicable to RSU with market conditions   

  The weighted average share price for share option valuation is HK$27.25. The total fair value of share options granted in 2011 is US$20m.   

Recognised compensation cost   

  The total recognised compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to share-based compensation awards granted under the RSU Scheme, SO Scheme and ESPP in 2011 is
US$16m.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
100  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel     

Directors' remuneration     

  The Executive Director receives compensation in the form of salaries, bonuses, contributions to pension schemes, long-term incentives,
housing and other allowances, and benefits in kind subject to applicable laws, rules and regulations. Bonuses and long-term incentives represent the variable components in the Executive
Directors' compensation and are linked to the performance of the Group and the Executive Director. Details of share-based payment schemes are described in Note 37.   

Note:       (1)      The bonus paid to the current Executive Director in respect of 2010, excluding the amount described in the following sentence exceeded the
amount disclosed previously by US$277,034. The current Executive Director was issued share-based compensation in lieu of US$1,706,730 of bonuses for 2010 as previously disclosed. This share-based
compensation was granted in 2011 and is subject to vesting conditions. Therefore the remuneration will be recognised and disclosed over the vesting period commencing from 2011.    

(2)Mr. Mark Andrew Wilson and Mr. Stephen Bernard Roder resigned as directors of the Company on 1 September 2010 and 22 April 2010
respectively.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
101  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel (continued)    

  The remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Independent Non-executive Directors of the Company at 30 November 2011 and 2010
are included in the tables below.   

Note:       (1)      Included in directors' fees is US$18,159 which represents remuneration to Mr. Edmund Sze Wing Tse in respect of his services as director
of a subsidiary of the Company.      

Note:       (1)      Included in directors' fees is US$8,869 which represents remuneration to Mr. Edmund Sze Wing Tse in respect of his services as director
of a subsidiary of the Company.     

(2)Included in directors' fees is US$29,097 which represents remuneration to Mr. Jack Chak-Kwong So in respect of his services as director of a subsidiary of the Company.     

(3)Mr. Robert Herman Benmosche, Mr. David Lawrence Herzog, Mr. Jay Steven Wintrob and Mr. Jeffrey Joy Hurd, who are employees of AIG, were appointed as directors of
the Company on 19 July 2010, 7 April 2010, 28 September 2010 and 28 September 2010, respectively. The services they provided to the Group were considered to occupy an
insignificant amount of their time and they were not separately remunerated for such services. As such, no remuneration is presented. Mr. Robert Herman Benmosche and Mr. David Lawrence
Herzog resigned as directors of the Company on 27 September 2010.     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
102  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel (continued)    

Remuneration of five highest paid individuals   

  The aggregate remuneration of the five highest paid individuals employed by the Group in each of the years ended 30 November 2011 and 2010 is
presented in the table below.   

The emoluments of the five individuals with the highest emoluments are within the following bands:   

Key management personnel remuneration   

  Key management personnel have been identified as the members of the Group's Executive Committee and Executive Director of the Company's Board.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
103  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel (continued)     

  The
emoluments of the Key Management Personnel are within the following bands:   

39.    Related party transactions     

Transactions with related parties     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
104  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

39.    Related party transactions (continued)    

Insurance related and other amounts due from/to related parties are unsecured, non-interest bearing balances which are expected to be settled within
one year.   

Remuneration
of directors and key management personnel is disclosed in Note 38.      

40.    Commitments and contingencies     

Commitments under operating leases     

  Total future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:   

The Group is the lessee in respect of a number of properties and items of office equipment held under operating leases. The leases typically run for an initial
period of one to seven years, with an option to renew the lease when all terms are renegotiated. Lease payments are usually increased at the end of the lease term to reflect market rates. None of the
leases include contingent rentals.   

Investment and capital commitments     

Investment and capital commitments consist of commitments to invest in private equity partnerships and other assets.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
105  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

40.    Commitments and contingencies (continued)    

Contingencies     

  The Group is subject to regulation in each of the geographical markets in which it operates from insurance, securities, capital markets, pension, data
privacy and other regulators and is exposed to the risk of regulatory actions in response to perceived or actual non-compliance with regulations relating to suitability, sales or
underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties. The Group believes that these
matters have been adequately provided for in these financial statements.   

  The
Group is exposed to legal proceedings, complaints and other actions from its activities including those arising from commercial activities, sales practices, suitability of products, policies and
claims. The Group believes these matters are adequately provided for in these financial statements.   

  The
Group is the reinsurer in a residential mortgage credit reinsurance agreement covering residential mortgages in Australia. Due to a change in law, further cessions under this contract ended in
July 2008. This reinsurance is fully retroceded to a subsidiary of AIG. The Group is exposed to the risk of losses in the event of the failure of the counterparty retrocessionaire to honour its
obligations. The principal balance outstanding of mortgage loans to which the reinsurance agreement relates were approximately US$2,525m at 30 November 2011 (2010: US$2,923m). The liabilities
and related reinsurance assets, which totalled US$11m (2010: US$12m), respectively, arising from these agreements are reflected and presented on a gross basis in these financial statements in
accordance with the Group's accounting policies. The Group expects to fully recover amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date under the terms of this agreement from the retrocessionaire. In the
event of a change in control of one party, the other party has the right to terminate the retrocession cover with the Group electing whether the termination is on a run-off basis or clean
cut basis.   

  At
30 November 2011, the Group has issued capital guarantees and guarantees of indebtedness and minimum guaranteed rates of return ranging from 0% to 5% to holders of units of pension funds
that have an accumulation value of approximately US$1,336m (2010: US$1,309m). The Group has the ability to reduce the guaranteed rates of return, subject to obtaining approvals of applicable
regulators.   

  The
status of the licences of the AIA Group is reviewed from time to time by the Group's regulators in light of a number of factors including the legal structure of the Group.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
106  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

41.    Subsidiaries     

The principal subsidiary companies which materially contribute to the net income of the Group or hold a material element of its assets and liabilities are:   

Notes:  

(1)  

The Company's subsidiary   

(2)  

The Company is newly set up in 2011   

(3)  

All of the above subsidiaries are audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers   

All subsidiaries are unlisted.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
107  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

42.    Events after the reporting period     

The corporate tax rates for Thailand and Korea have changed after 30 November 2011. For Thailand, the corporate income tax rate will reduce to 23% for assessment year 2012 and 20% for
assessment year 2013 and 2014 and return to 30% for assessment year 2015 and onwards. For Korea, the corporate income tax rate was previously reduced to 22% for the assessment years beginning April
2012. After the tax law change, the corporate income tax rate on the portion of assessable profits exceeding 20 billion Korean won will increase from 22% to 24.2% for the assessment years
beginning April 2012.   

  On
1 January 2012, AIA Co. completed the transfer of its insurance business in Singapore from a branch to its wholly-owned subsidiary, AIA Singapore Private Limited ("AIA Singapore").
This transfer did not have any financial impact on the consolidated financial statements of the AIA Group.   

  On
24 February 2012, the Directors of the Company proposed a final dividend of 22 Hong Kong cents per share.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
108  

</EX-99.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 23
 aig-20121231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 24
 aig-20121231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 25
 aig-20121231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 26
 aig-20121231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 27
 aig-20121231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 28
 aig-20121231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

