<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140220_10-K_edgar_data_5272_0001047469-14-001096_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>79735489</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1484585</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>22364655</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>18513674</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>25309861</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8981434</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>334</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-14-001096.hdr.sgml : 20140220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140220161104
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-14-001096
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		52
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000005272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				132592361
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08787
		FILM NUMBER:		14629716

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		180 MAIDEN LANE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10038
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127707000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		180 MAIDEN LANE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10038

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700507

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-14-001096.txt : 20140220

10-K
 1
 a2218248z10-k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013                                           
                       Commission file number 1-8787   

American International Group, Inc.       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)     

Delaware    
(State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)  
     
    13-2592361    
(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.)  

175 Water Street, New York, New York    
(Address of principal executive offices)  
      
     10038    
(Zip Code)  

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 770-7000     

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.02     

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
submit and post such files). Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
"large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a 
smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes        No       

The aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common equity held by nonaffiliates of the registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant's most recently
completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $65,993,000,000.   

  As
of February 14, 2014, there were outstanding 1,464,067,641 shares of Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share, of the registrant.   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   

FORM 10-K    

Item Number   

Description   

Page   

PART I        

Item 1.   
     
       Business   
     
   2   

AIG's Global Insurance Operations   
     
   3   

A Review of Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment
Expense   
     
   18   

Reinsurance Activities   
     
   21   

Generating Revenues: Investment Activities of Our
Insurance Operations   
     
   22   

Regulation   
     
   23   

Our Competitive Environment   
     
   30   

Our Employees   
     
   30   

Directors and Executive Officers of AIG   
     
   31   

Available Information about AIG   
     
   32   

Item 1A.   
     
       Risk Factors   
     
   33   

Item 1B.   
     
       Unresolved Staff Comments   
     
   47   

Item 2.   
     
       Properties   
     
   47   

Item 3.   
     
       Legal Proceedings   
     
   47   

Item 4.   
     
       Mine Safety Disclosures   
     
   47   

PART II        

Item 5.   
     
       Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
     
   48   

Item 6.   
     
       Selected Financial Data   
     
   51   

Item 7.   
     
       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     
   54   

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Information   
     
   54   

Use of Non-GAAP Measures   
     
   56   

Executive Overview   
     
   58   

Results of Operations   
     
   71   

Liquidity and Capital Resources   
     
   128   

Investments   
     
   143   

Enterprise Risk Management   
     
   161   

Critical Accounting Estimates   
     
   178   

Glossary   
     
   203   

Acronyms   
     
   207   

Item 7A.   
     
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
     
   208   

Item 8.   
     
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     
   209   

Index to Financial Statements and Schedules   
     
   209   

Item 9.   
     
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     
   339   

Item 9A.   
     
       Controls and Procedures   
     
   339   

PART III        

Item 10.   
     
       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
     
   340   

Item 11.   
     
       Executive Compensation   
     
   340   

Item 12.   
     
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     
   340   

Item 13.   
     
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
     
   340   

Item 14.   
     
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
     
   340   

PART IV        

Item 15.   
     
       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   
     
   340   

SIGNATURES         

341   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
1  

Table of Contents    

PART I

ITEM 1 /  BUSINESS

American International Group, Inc. (AIG)   is a leading global insurance company. Founded
in 1919, today we provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, mortgage insurance and other financial services to customers in more than 130 countries and
jurisdictions. Our diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.   

AIG's key strengths include:  

World class insurance franchises      that are leaders in their categories and are continuing to improve their
operating performance;

A diverse mix of businesses      with a presence in most international markets;

Effective capital management      of the largest shareholders' equity of any insurance company in the world*,
supported by enhanced
risk management;

Execution of strategic objectives,      such as our focus on growth of higher value lines of business to increase
profitability and
grow assets under management; and

Improved profitability,      as demonstrated by growth in 2013 over 2012 of pre-tax operating income in each of our
core insurance
operations.

*     At June 30, 2013, the latest date for which information was available for certain foreign insurance companies.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
2  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG    

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context
indicates otherwise, we use the terms "AIG," the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We
use the term "AIG Parent" to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.   

AIG's Global Insurance Operations  

HOW WE GENERATE REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY

We earn revenues    primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees from universal life insurance and
investment products, income from investments and advisory fees.   

   Our operating expenses    consist of policyholder benefits and claims incurred, interest credited to
policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, and general business expenses.   

Our profitability    is dependent on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance and annuity
products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively, and to control costs through expense discipline.   

AIG Property Casualty     

AIG Life and Retirement     

AIG Property
Casualty    is a leading provider of insurance products for commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the world's most far-reaching property casualty
networks. AIG Property Casualty offers one of the industry's most extensive ranges of products and services, through its diversified, multichannel distribution network, benefitting from its strong
capital position.   

AIG Life and Retirement    is a premier provider of protection, investment and income
solutions for financial and retirement security. It is among the largest life insurance, annuity and retirement services businesses in the United States. With one of the broadest distribution networks
and most diverse product offerings in the industry, AIG Life and Retirement helps to ensure financial and retirement security for more than 18 million customers. 
During the first quarter of 2013, AIG Life and Retirement implemented its previously announced changes reflecting its new structure and now presents its operating results in two operating
segments   Retail and Institutional. All prior period amounts presented have been revised to reflect the new structure.   

Other Operations     
  
    Mortgage Guaranty    (United Guaranty Corporation or UGC), is a leading provider of private residential mortgage guaranty insurance (MI). MI covers
mortgage lenders for the first loss from mortgage defaults on high loan-to-value conventional first-lien mortgages. By providing this coverage, UGC enables mortgage lenders to remain competitive and
enables individuals to purchase a house with a lower down payment.   

  Other
Operations also include Global Capital Markets, Direct Investment book, Corporate   Other and Aircraft Leasing.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
3  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG    

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

On
August 14, 2013, we announced a reorganization of our Consumer Insurance business and named a new management team. Under the new structure, AIG's global life insurance business will be
managed as part of AIG Global Consumer Insurance   enabling our consumer network across the world to benefit from the sophistication, scale, and success of our U.S. life insurance
platform.   

  During
the fourth quarter of 2013, the newly appointed executive management team made a number of key appointments to its management team and certain key decisions regarding how its underlying
operating segments will be organized. However, we continue to work on the final key elements of the new organization and operating
structure. When the new structure is finalized, the presentation of AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement results may be modified accordingly and prior periods' presentations may be
revised to conform to the new reporting presentation.   

AIG 2013 Revenue Sources from Insurance Operations* 
(dollars in millions)     

*     Revenues
for AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty include net premiums earned, net investment income and net realized capital gains. Revenues for AIG Life and Retirement include
premiums, policy fees, net investment income, advisory fees, legal settlements and net realized capital gains.   

  For financial information concerning our reportable segments, including geographic areas of operation and changes made in 2013, see Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current period presentation for segment changes and discontinued operations.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
4  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG    

(a)  Pre-tax
operating income, accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, and book value per share excluding AOCI are non-GAAP measures. See "Use of Non-GAAP Measures" for additional
information.   

  (b)  Based
on AerCap's pre-announcement closing price per share of $24.93 as of December 13, 2013.   

(c)  AIG
did not receive any proceeds from the sale of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury. See Notes 4, 16, 17 and 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion of the government support provided to AIG and the Recapitalization.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
5  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty 

Business Strategy     

Growth and Business Mix:      Grow higher value business to increase profitability and expand in attractive
growth economies.

Underwriting Excellence:      Enhance risk selection and pricing to earn returns commensurate with the risk
assumed.

Claims Best Practices:      Improve claims practices, analytics and tools to improve customer service, increase
efficiency and
lower the loss ratio.

Operating Expense Discipline:      Apply operating expense discipline and increase efficiencies by taking full
advantage of our
global footprint.

Capital Efficiency:      Enhance capital management through initiatives to streamline our legal entity structure,
 optimize our
reinsurance program and improve tax efficiency.

Investment Strategy:      Execute our investment strategy, which includes increased asset diversification and
yield-enhancement
opportunities that meet our capital, liquidity, risk and return objectives.

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
6  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty Operating Segments     

  AIG
Property Casualty operating segments are organized into    Commercial Insurance    and    Consumer Insurance.   
Run-off lines of business and operations not attributable to these operating segments are included in an Other category.   

Percent of 2013 Net premiums written by operating segment   *   

    (dollars in millions)     

*     The operations reported as part of Other do not have meaningful levels of Net premiums written.   

Commercial
Insurance     Percent of 2013 Net premiums written by product line 
(dollars in millions)   

Consumer Insurance     Percent of 2013 Net premiums written by product line 
(dollars in millions)   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
7  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

Commercial Insurance Product Lines     

Consumer Insurance Product Lines     

Casualty:   
Includes general liability, commercial automobile liability, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis management insurance. Casualty also includes risk management and other customized
structured programs for large corporate customers and multinational companies.   

   Property:    Includes industrial, energy-related and commercial property insurance products, which cover exposures to man-made
and natural disasters, including business interruption.   

   Specialty:    Includes aerospace, environmental, political risk, trade credit, surety and marine insurance, and various product
offerings for small and medium sized enterprises.   

Financial:    Includes various forms of professional liability insurance, including directors and officers (D O), fidelity,
employment practices, fiduciary liability, cyber risk, kidnap and ransom, and errors and omissions insurance (E O).   

Accident   Health:    Includes voluntary and
sponsor-paid personal accidental and supplemental health products for individuals, employees, associations and other organizations. It also includes life products (outside of the U.S. market) as well
as a broad range of travel insurance products and services for leisure and business travelers.   

   Personal:    Includes automobile, homeowners and extended warranty insurance. It also includes insurance for high-net-worth
individuals (offered through Private Client Group), including umbrella, yacht and fine art insurance, and consumer specialty products, such as identity theft and credit card
protection. 

Other:    Consists primarily of: run-off lines of business, including excess workers' compensation, asbestos and legacy
environmental (1986 and prior); certain environmental liability businesses written prior to 2004; operations and expenses not attributable to the Commercial Insurance or Consumer Insurance operating
segments; unallocated net investment income; net realized capital gains and losses; other income and expense items; and adverse loss development, net of amortization of deferred gain, for a
retroactive reinsurance arrangement.   

A Look at AIG Property Casualty   

  AIG
Property Casualty conducts its business primarily through the following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.; American
Home Assurance Company; Lexington Insurance Company; AIU Insurance Company Ltd.; Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company Limited (Fuji); AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd. and AIG
Europe Limited.   

Global Footprint     

  AIG
Property Casualty has a significant international presence in both developed markets and growth economy nations. It distributes its products through three major geographic
regions:   

Americas:   
  Includes the United States, Canada, Central America, South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda.     
            Asia Pacific:   
  Includes Japan and other Asia Pacific nations, including China, Korea, Singapore, Vietnam, Thailand, Australia and Indonesia.     
            EMEA (Europe, Middle East and
Africa):     Includes the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Russia, India, the Middle East and Africa.    

In
2013, 5.6 percent and 5.1 percent of AIG Property Casualty direct premiums were written in the states of California and New York, respectively, and 18.3 percent and
6.8 percent were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of such premiums.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
8  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

Total Net Premiums Written $34.4 bn   

  Based on net premiums written in 2012, AIG Property Casualty is the largest commercial insurer in the U.S. and Canada. We are the largest U.S. based property
casualty insurer in Europe, and the largest foreign property casualty insurer in China. In addition, AIG Property Casualty was first to market in many developing nations and is well positioned to
enhance its businesses in countries such as Brazil, China through strategic relationships with PICC Life Insurance Company Limited (PICC Life) and India with the Tata Group.   

AIG Property Casualty Distribution Network     

Commercial
Insurance   

Consumer Insurance   

Commercial Insurance products are primarily
distributed through a network of independent retail and wholesale brokers, and through an independent agency network.   

Consumer Insurance products are distributed primarily through agents and brokers, as well as through direct marketing, partner
organizations such as bancassurance, and the internet.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
9  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

Competition     

AIG Property Casualty

Operating
in a highly competitive industry, AIG Property Casualty competes against approximately 4,000 stock companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual companies and other underwriting
organizations in the U.S. In international markets, we compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large global insurance groups and local companies in specific market areas and
product types.   

  Insurance
companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, service and terms and conditions. AIG Property Casualty distinguishes itself in the insurance industry
primarily based on its well-established brand, global franchise, financial strength and large capital base, innovative products, expertise in providing specialized coverages and customer service.   

  We
serve our business and individual customers on a global basis   from the largest multinational corporations to local businesses and individuals. Our clients benefit from our
substantial underwriting expertise and long-term commitment to the markets and clients we serve.   

AIG Property Casualty Competitive Strengths and Challenges     

Our
competitive strengths are:   

   Financial strength      well capitalized, strong balance sheet   

   Expertise      in-depth knowledge of risk, experienced employees complemented with new talent;   

   Global franchise      operating in more than 95 countries and jurisdictions   

   Scale      facilitates risk diversification to optimize returns on capital   

Diversification      breadth of customers served, products underwritten and distribution channels   

   Innovation      striving to provide superior, differentiated product solutions that meet consumer needs   

   Service      focused on customer needs, providing strong global claims, loss prevention and mitigation, engineering, underwriting and
other related services   

  We
face the following challenges:   

   Barriers to entry are high    for certain markets   

   Regulatory changes    in recent years created an increasingly complex environment that is affecting industry growth and profitability   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
10  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

AIG Life and Retirement 

Business Strategy     

Product Diversity and Capacity for Growth:      Continue to enhance our comprehensive portfolio with superior,
differentiated product
solutions that meet consumer needs for financial and retirement security, using our scale and capital strength to pursue growth opportunities.

Integrated Distribution:      Grow assets under management by leveraging our extensive distribution organization of
over 300,000
financial professionals and expanding relationships with key distribution partners; to effectively market our diverse product offerings across multiple channels under a more unified branding
strategy.

Investment Portfolio:      Maintain a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities that largely
match the duration
characteristics of liabilities with assets of comparable duration, and pursue yield-enhancement opportunities that meet our liquidity, risk and return objectives.

Operational Initiatives:      Continue to streamline our life insurance and annuity operations and systems into a
lower-cost, more
agile model that provides superior service and ease of doing business for customers and producers.

Effective Risk and Capital Management:      Deliver solid earnings through disciplined pricing and diversification of
risk and
increase capital efficiency within our insurance entities to enhance return on equity.

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
11  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

AIG Life and Retirement Operating Segments     

  AIG
Life and Retirement's organizational structure includes distinct product divisions, shared annuity and life operations platforms and a unified multi-channel distribution organization with access
to all AIG Life and Retirement products. AIG Life and Retirement's operating segments are organized into    Retail    and     Institutional. Retail    products are
generally marketed directly to individual consumers through independent and career insurance agents, retail banks,
direct-to-consumer platforms, and national, regional and independent broker-dealers.    Institutional    products are generally marketed to groups or large
institutions through affiliated financial advisors or intermediaries including benefit consultants, independent marketing organizations, structured settlement brokers and broker-dealers.   

   Percent of 2013 Premiums and deposits by operating segment 
(dollars in millions)   

Premiums
represent amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on life contingent payout annuities. Premiums and deposits is a non-GAAP financial
measure that includes direct and assumed premiums as well as deposits received on universal life insurance, investment-type annuity contracts, guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) and mutual funds.   

  See
Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   AIG Life and Retirement Operations   AIG Life and Retirement Premiums, Deposits
and Net Flows for a reconciliation of premiums and deposits to premiums.   

Retail       Percent of 2013 Premiums and Deposits by product line 
(dollars in millions)   

Institutional       Percent of 2013 Premiums and Deposits by product line 
(dollars in millions)   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
12  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

Retail
Product Lines   

Institutional Product Lines   

Life Insurance and A H:    Primary products include term life insurance, universal life
insurance and A H products. Life insurance and A H products are primarily distributed through independent marketing organizations, independent insurance agents and career agents and financial
advisors. AIG Direct is a proprietary direct-to-consumer distributor of term life insurance and A H products. The Life Insurance and A H product line will continue to focus on innovative product
development and delivering differentiated life insurance solutions to producers and customers.   

   Fixed Annuities:    Products include single and flexible premium deferred fixed annuities and single premium immediate and
delayed-income annuities. The Fixed Annuities business line maintains its industry-leading position in the bank distribution channel by designing products collaboratively with banks and offering an
efficient and flexible administration platform.   

   Retirement Income Solutions:    Primary products include variable and fixed index annuities that provide asset accumulation and
lifetime income benefits. Variable annuities are distributed through banks and national, regional and independent broker-dealer firms. Fixed index annuities are distributed through banks, broker
dealers, independent marketing organizations and career and independent insurance agents.   

Brokerage Services:    Includes the operations of Advisor Group, which is one of the largest networks of independent financial
advisors in the U.S. Brands include Royal Alliance, SagePoint Financial, FSC Securities and Woodbury Financial.   

   Retail Mutual Funds:    Includes our mutual fund and related administration and servicing operations.   

Group Retirement:    Products are marketed under The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) brand and include fixed and
variable group annuities, group mutual funds, and group administrative and compliance services. VALIC career financial advisors and independent financial advisors provide retirement plan participants
with enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning services.   

   Group Benefits:    AIG Benefit Solutions markets a wide range of insurance and other benefit products through employer offerings
(both employer-paid and voluntary) and affinity groups. Primary product offerings include life insurance, accidental death, business travel accident, disability income, medical excess (stop loss) and
worksite universal life and critical illness and accident coverage.   

   Institutional Markets:    Products primarily include stable value wrap products, structured settlement and terminal funding
annuities, high net worth products, corporate- and bank-owned life insurance and GICs. These products are marketed primarily through specialized marketing and consulting firms and structured
settlement brokers. Institutional Markets has a disciplined and opportunistic approach to growth in these product lines.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
13  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

A Look at AIG Life and Retirement   

  AIG
Life and Retirement conducts its business primarily through three major insurance operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company, The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company and The
United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York.   

AIG Life and Retirement 2013 Sales by Distribution Channel     

Sales
represent life and group A H premiums from new policies expected to be collected over a one-year period plus 10 percent of life unscheduled deposits, single premiums and annuity deposits
from new and existing customers.   

AIG Life and Retirement's Diversified Distribution Network     

Affiliated   

Nonaffiliated   

VALIC career financial advisors    Over 1,200 financial advisors serving the worksites of educational,
not-for-profit and governmental organizations   

   AIG Financial Network    Over 2,200 agents and financial advisors serving American families and small businesses   

   Advisor Group    Over 6,000 independent financial advisors   

   AIG Direct    A leading direct-to-consumer distributor of life and A H products  

Banks    Long-standing market leader in distribution of fixed annuities through banks, with 800 banks and nearly 80,000 financial institution agents   

   Independent marketing organizations    Relationships with over 1,200 independent marketing organizations and brokerage general agencies providing access to
over 143,000 licensed independent agents   

   Broker dealers    Access to over 135,000 licensed financial professionals through relationships with a wide network of broker dealers across the U.S.   

Benefit brokers    Include consultants, brokers, third party administrators and general agents   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
14  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

AIG Life and Retirement Competition     

  AIG
Life and Retirement is among the largest life insurance organizations in the United States and is a leader in today's financial services marketplace.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement competes in the life insurance and retirement savings businesses against approximately 2,300 providers of life insurance and retirement savings products, primarily based on its
long-standing market leading
positions, innovative products, extensive distribution network, customer service and strong financial ratings. AIG Life and Retirement helps ensure financial and retirement security for more than
18 million customers.   

AIG Life and Retirement Competitive Strengths and Challenges     
  
   Our
competitive strengths are:   

   Long-standing market leading positions    in many of our product lines and key distribution channels   

   Broad multi-channel distribution network    of over 300,000 financial professionals with opportunities to expand on these relationships to effectively
market our diverse product offerings across multiple channels   

   Diversified and comprehensive product portfolio    of superior, differentiated solutions that meet consumer needs for financial and retirement security   

   Scale and risk diversification    provided by the breadth of our product offerings and scale advantage in key product lines   

   Capital strength to fuel growth    in assets under management and pursue opportunities that meet our return objectives   

  We
also face the following challenges:   

   Highly competitive environment    where products are differentiated by pricing, terms, service and ease of doing business   

Regulatory requirements    increasing in volume and complexity due to heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision of the insurance and financial
services industries in recent years   

   Low interest rate    environment makes it more difficult to profitably price attractive guaranteed return products and puts margin pressure on existing
products due to the challenge of investing premiums and deposits and portfolio cash flow in a low rate environment   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
15  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

Other Operations 

Mortgage Guaranty Business Strategy     

Risk Selection:      Ensure high quality new business through continuous focus on risk selection and risk-based
pricing using
disciplined underwriting and a proprietary, multi-variant risk evaluation model.

Innovation:      Continue to develop and enhance products, technology, and processes that address the needs of
stakeholders in
the mortgage system.

Ease of Use:      Reduce complexity and enable stakeholders to easily utilize our services throughout the
mortgage insurance
process.

Expense Management:      Streamline our processes through the use of technology and shared services.

Mortgage Guaranty     

   Mortgage Guaranty (United Guaranty Corporation or UGC)    offers private residential mortgage
guaranty insurance, which protects mortgage lenders and investors from loss due to borrower default and loan foreclosure. With over 1,000 employees, UGC currently insures over one million mortgage
loans in the United States. In 2013, UGC generated more than $49 billion in new insurance written, which represents the original principal balance of the insured mortgages, making it a leading
provider of private mortgage insurance in the United States.   

   Products and Services:    UGC provides an array of products and services including first-lien
mortgage guaranty insurance in a range of premium payment plans. UGC's primary product is private mortgage insurance. The coverage we provide   which is called mortgage guaranty
insurance, mortgage insurance, or simply "MI", protects lenders against the increased risk of borrower default related to high loan-to-value (LTV) mortgages   those with less than
20 percent equity   enabling borrowers to purchase a house with a modest down payment.   

Homeowner Support:    UGC also works with homeowners who are behind on their mortgage payments
to identify ways to retain their home. As a liaison between the borrower and the mortgage servicer, UGC provides the added support to qualified homeowners to help them avoid foreclosure.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
16  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

A Look at Mortgage Guaranty   

Mortgage Guaranty Distribution Network     

National Mortgage
Bankers  
     
                  Community
Banks  

Money Center
Banks  
     
                  Builder-owned Mortgage
Lenders  

Regional Mortgage
Lenders  
     
                  Internet-sourced
Lenders  

Credit
Unions  

Mortgage Guaranty Competition     

United
Guaranty competes with seven private providers of mortgage insurance, both well-established and new entrants to the industry, and The Federal Housing Administration, which is the largest
provider of mortgage insurance in the United States.   

Mortgage Guaranty Competitive Strengths and Challenges     
  
   Our
competitive strengths are:   

   History      50 years of service to the mortgage industry   

   Financial strength      strong capital position and highly rated mortgage insurer   

   Risk-based pricing strategy      provides products that are priced commensurate with underwriting risk using its proprietary
multivariate risk evaluation model   

   Innovative products      develop and enhance products to address the changing needs of the mortgage industry   

   Rigorous approach to risk management   

  We
face the following challenges:   

   Increasingly complex regulations relating to mortgage originations     

Uncertain future regulatory environment in the residential housing finance system     

   Increasing competition in a limited private MI market     

   Volatility in the U.S. housing market     

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
17  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

Other Operations also include:   

   Global Capital Markets (GCM)    consists of the operations of AIG Markets, Inc. (AIG Markets) and the remaining derivatives portfolio of AIG
Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively AIGFP). AIG Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG and its subsidiaries and
third parties to provide hedging services for AIG entities. The AIGFP portfolio continues to be wound down and is managed consistent with AIG's risk management objectives.   

   Direct Investment book (DIB)    consists of a portfolio of assets and liabilities held directly by AIG Parent in the Matched Investment Program (MIP) and
certain non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP. The DIB portfolio is being wound down and is managed with the objective of ensuring that at all times it maintains the liquidity we believe is
necessary to meet all of its liabilities as they come due, even under stress scenarios, and to maximize returns consistent with our risk management objectives.   

   Retained Interests    includes the fair value gains or losses, prior to their sale in 2012, of the AIA ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial
public offering and the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities that were received as consideration from the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) and the fair value gains or losses, prior
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) liquidation of Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) assets in 2012, on the retained interest in ML III.   

   Corporate   Other    consists primarily of interest expense, consolidation and eliminations, expenses of corporate staff not attributable to
specific reportable segments, certain expenses related to internal controls and the financial and operating platforms, corporate initiatives, certain compensation plan expenses, corporate level net
realized capital gains and losses, certain litigation-related charges and credits, the results of AIG's other non-core business operations, and net loss on sale of properties and divested businesses
that did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations accounting treatment.   

   Aircraft Leasing    consists of ILFC. ILFC is one of the world's leading aircraft lessors. ILFC acquires commercial jet aircraft from various manufacturers
and other parties and leases those aircraft to airlines around the world. As of December 31, 2013, ILFC had a lease portfolio of approximately 1,000 aircraft, of which it owned 911 aircraft
with a net book value of approximately $35.2 billion.   

  On
December 16, 2013, AIG and AIG Capital Corporation (Seller), a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of AIG, entered into a definitive agreement (the AerCap Share Purchase Agreement) with AerCap
Holdings N.V. (AerCap) and AerCap Ireland Limited (Purchaser), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AerCap, for the sale of 100 percent of the common stock of ILFC by Seller to Purchaser (such
transaction, the AerCap Transaction). Under the terms of the AerCap Share Purchase Agreement, consummation of the AerCap Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions
precedent, such as certain customary conditions and other closing conditions, including the receipt of approvals or non-disapprovals from antitrust and other regulatory bodies. The AerCap Transaction
was approved by AerCap shareholders on February 13, 2014. See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Business and Regulation and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on the AerCap Transaction.   

A REVIEW OF LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE

The
liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid reported claims and claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) for AIG
Property Casualty and UGC. Unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses are also referred to as unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses, or just loss reserves.   

  We
recognize as assets the portion of this liability that will be recovered from reinsurers. Reserves are discounted, where permitted, in accordance with U.S. GAAP.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
18  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

The Loss Reserve Development Process     

  The
process of establishing the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense is complex and imprecise because it must take into consideration many variables that
are subject to the outcome of future events. As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process.   

We use a number of techniques to analyze the adequacy of the established net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense (net loss reserves). Using these analytical techniques, we monitor the adequacy of
AIG's established reserves and determine appropriate assumptions for inflation and other factors influencing loss costs. Our analysis also takes into account emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve redundancies or deficiencies
and IBNR emergence. We also consider specific factors that may impact losses, such as changing trends in medical costs, unemployment levels and other economic indicators, as well as changes in legislation and social attitudes that may affect
decisions to file claims or the magnitude of court awards. See Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates for a description of our loss reserving process. 

A significant portion of AIG Property Casualty's business is in the U.S. commercial casualty class, including asbestos and environmental, which tends to involve longer periods of time for the reporting and settlement of claims and may increase the
risk and uncertainty with respect to our loss reserve development.  

Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes in estimates are sometimes referred to as
 "loss development" or "reserve development."   

Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development     

  The
"Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development" table presents the development of prior year net loss reserves for calendar years 2003 through 2013 for each balance sheet in that period. The
information in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This table should be interpreted with care by those not familiar with
its format or those who are familiar with other loss development analyses arranged in an accident year or underwriting year basis rather than the balance sheet, as shown below. See Note 12 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   The top row of the table shows      Net Reserves Held      (the net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses) at each
balance sheet date, net of discount.    This liability represents the estimated amount of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims arising in all years prior to the balance
sheet date that were unpaid as of that balance sheet date, including estimates for IBNR claims. The amount of loss reserve discount included in the net reserves at each date is shown immediately below
the net reserves held. The undiscounted reserve at each date is
equal to the sum of the discount and the net reserves held. For example,    Net Reserves Held (Undiscounted)    was $37.7 billion at
December 31, 2003.   

   The next section of the table shows the original      Net Undiscounted Reserves re-estimated      over 10 years. This re-estimation
takes into consideration a number of factors, including changes in the estimated frequency of reported claims, effects of significant judgments, the emergence of latent exposures, and changes in
medical cost trends.    For example, the original undiscounted reserve of $37.7 billion at December 31, 2003, was re-estimated to $62.1 billion at
December 31, 2013. The amount of the development related to losses settled or re-estimated in 2013, but incurred in 2010, is included in the cumulative development amount for years 2010, 2011
and 2012. Any increase or decrease in the estimate is reflected in operating results in the period in which the estimate is changed.   

   The middle of the table shows      Net Redundancy (Deficiency).      This is the aggregate change in estimates over the period of years
covered by the table.    For example, the net loss reserve deficiency of $24.4 billion for 2003 is the difference between the original undiscounted reserve of
$37.7 billion at December 31, 2003 and the $62.1 billion of re-estimated reserves at December 31, 2013. The net deficiency amounts are cumulative; in other words, the
amount   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
19  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

  shown
in the 2012 column includes the amount shown in the 2011 column, and so on. Conditions and trends that have affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the
future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to extrapolate future development based on this table.   

   The bottom portion of the table shows the      Paid (Cumulative)      amounts during successive years related to the undiscounted loss
reserves.    For example, as of December 31, 2013, AIG had paid a total of $51.6 billion of the $62.1 billion in re-estimated reserves for 2003, resulting in
Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted) of $10.5 billion for 2003. Also included in this section are the    Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted)    and the     Remaining
Discount    for each year.   

   The following table presents loss reserves and the related loss development 2003 through 2013 and consolidated gross liability (before discount), reinsurance recoverable and
net liability recorded for each calendar year, and the re-estimation of these amounts as of December 31, 2013. (a)    

(a)  During
2009, we deconsolidated Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. and sold 21st Century Insurance Group and HSB Group, Inc. The sales and deconsolidation are reflected
in the table above as a reduction in December 31, 2009 net reserves of $9.7 billion and as an $8.6 billion increase in paid losses for the years 2000 through 2008 to remove the
reserves for these divested entities from the ending balance.   

  (b)  The
increase in Net Reserves Held from 2009 to 2010 is partially due to the $1.7 billion in Net Reserves Held by Fuji, which was acquired in 2010. The decrease in 2011 is due
to the cession of asbestos reserves described in Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   Segment Results   AIG Property Casualty
Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense   Asbestos and Environmental Reserves.   

The Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense as reported in AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2013 differs from the total
reserve reported in the annual statements filed with state insurance departments and, where applicable, with foreign regulatory authorities primarily for the following reasons:  

Reserves for certain foreign operations are not required or permitted to be reported in the United States for statutory
reporting purposes, including contingency reserves for catastrophic events;    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
20  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

Statutory practices in the United States require reserves to be shown net of applicable reinsurance recoverable; and    
           Unlike statutory financial statements, AIG's consolidated Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense
excludes the effect of intercompany transactions.    

  Gross
loss reserves are calculated without reduction for reinsurance recoverables and represent the accumulation of estimates for reported losses and IBNR, net of estimated salvage and subrogation. We
review the adequacy of established gross loss reserves in the manner previously described for net loss reserves. A reconciliation of activity in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
expense is included in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  For
further discussion of asbestos and environmental reserves, see Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   Segment Results   AIG Property
Casualty Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense   Asbestos and Environmental Reserves.   

REINSURANCE ACTIVITIES

Reinsurance
is used primarily to manage overall capital adequacy and mitigate the insurance loss exposure related to certain events such as natural and man-made
catastrophes.   

  AIG
subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross basis and reinsuring a portion of the exposure on either an individual risk or an
aggregate basis to the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level. In addition, as a condition of certain direct underwriting transactions, we are required by clients, agents or regulation
to cede all or a portion of risks to specified reinsurance entities, such as captives, other insurers, local reinsurers and compulsory pools.   

  Over
the last several years, AIG Property Casualty revised its ceded reinsurance framework and strategy to improve capital management and support our global product line risk and profitability
objectives. As a result of adopting the revised framework and strategy, many individual reinsurance contracts were consolidated into more efficient global programs and reinsurance ceded to third
parties in support of risk and capital management objectives has decreased for the full year 2013 compared to the prior year. There are many different forms of reinsurance agreements and different
markets that may be used to achieve our risk and profitability objectives. We continually evaluate the relative attractiveness of various reinsurance markets and arrangements that may be used to
achieve our risk and profitability objectives.   

  Reinsurance
markets include:  

Traditional local and global reinsurance markets including in the United States, Bermuda, London and Europe, accessed
directly and through reinsurance intermediaries;   
           Capital markets through investors in insurance-linked securities and collateralized reinsurance transactions, such as
catastrophe bonds, "sidecars" (special purpose entities that allow investors to take on the risk of a book of business from an insurance company in exchange for a premium) and similar vehicles; and    
           Other insurers that engage in both direct and assumed reinsurance and/or engage in swaps.    

  The
form of reinsurance that we may choose from time to time will generally depend on whether we are seeking (i) proportional reinsurance, whereby we cede a specified percentage of premium and
losses to reinsurers, or non-proportional or excess of loss reinsurance, whereby we cede all or a specified portion of losses in excess of a specified amount on a per risk, per occurrence (including
catastrophe reinsurance) or aggregate basis and (ii) treaties that cover a defined book of policies, or facultative placements that cover an individual policy. The vast majority of our
reinsurance is non-proportional.   

  Reinsurance
arrangements do not relieve AIG subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds. However, an effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates our exposure to potentially
significant losses.   

  In
certain markets, we are required to participate on a proportional basis in reinsurance pools based on our relative share of direct writings in those markets. Such mandatory reinsurance generally
covers higher-risk consumer exposures such as assigned-risk automobile and earthquake, as well as certain commercial exposures such as workers' compensation.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
21  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

  We
continued our strategy to take advantage of the pricing differential between traditional reinsurance markets and capital markets. On July 9, 2013, we entered into a five-year catastrophe
bond transaction with Tradewynd Re Ltd., which will provide $125 million of indemnity protection against U.S., Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico named storms, and U.S. and Canadian
earthquakes. The transaction provides us with fully collateralized coverage against losses from the events described above on a per-occurrence basis through June 2018.   

In
addition, we entered into a five-year capital markets reinsurance transaction, effective as of January 1, 2014 with Tradewynd Re Ltd., which will provide $400 million of
indemnity reinsurance protection against U.S., Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico named storms, and U.S. and Canadian earthquakes. To fund its potential obligations to AIG, Tradewynd Re Ltd. issued
three tranches of notes, one with a one-year term and two with three-year terms. The transaction closed December 18, 2013 and provides AIG with fully collateralized coverage against losses from
the events described above on a per-occurrence basis through December 2018.   

See
Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Insurance Operations Risks   AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance
Risks   Reinsurance Recoverable for a summary of significant reinsurers.   

GENERATING REVENUES: INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES OF OUR INSURANCE OPERATIONS

AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these premiums and deposits to generate
net investment income that is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities. 
 
AIG's worldwide insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in fixed maturity securities of corporations, municipal bonds and government issuances in all of its portfolios, and, to a lesser extent, investments in high-yield
bonds, common stock, real estate, hedge funds and other alternative investments.  

We generate significant revenues in our AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement operations from investment activities.   

The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities at AIG consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.   

   AIG Property Casualty      Fixed maturity securities held by the insurance companies included in AIG Property Casualty domestic
operations have historically consisted primarily of laddered holdings of corporate bonds, municipal bonds and government bonds. These investments provided attractive returns and limited credit risk.
To meet our domestic operations' current risk return and business objectives, our domestic property and casualty companies have been shifting investment allocations to a broader array of debt,
including structured securities and equity sectors. Our fixed maturity securities must meet our liquidity, duration and quality objectives as well as current capital, risk return and business
objectives. Fixed maturity securities held by AIG Property Casualty international operations consist primarily of intermediate duration high-grade securities, primarily in the markets being served. In
addition, AIG Property Casualty has redeployed cash in excess of operating needs and short-term investments into longer-term, higher-yielding securities.   

   AIG Life and Retirement      Our investment strategy is to largely match the duration of our liabilities with assets of
comparable duration, to the extent practicable. AIG Life and Retirement primarily invests in a diversified portfolio of fixed maturity securities, including corporate bonds, RMBS, CMBS and CDO/ABS. To
further diversify the portfolio, investments are made in private equity funds, hedge funds and affordable housing partnerships. Although these alternative investments are subject to periodic earnings
fluctuations, for the three years ended December 31, 2013, they have achieved total returns in excess of AIG Life and Retirement's fixed maturity security returns. AIG Life and Retirement
expects that these alternative investments will continue to outperform the fixed maturity security portfolio over the long term.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
22  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

   The following table summarizes the investment results of AIG's insurance operations.   

(a)  Excludes
cash and short-term investments and includes unrealized appreciation of investments.   

  (b)  Net
investment income divided by the annual average investments. The increase in AIG Property Casualty pre-tax return on average investments for the year ended December 31,
2013 compared to 2012 primarily relates to alternative investments and fair value option assets. See Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   AIG Property
Casualty   AIG Property Casualty Net Investment Income and Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses).   

REGULATION

Our
operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives, investment
advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad.   

  Our
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. The insurance and financial services industries generally have been
subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision in recent years.   

   The following table provides a general overview of our primary regulators and related bodies and a brief description of their oversight with respect to us and our subsidiaries,
including key regulations or initiatives that we are currently, or may in the future be, subject to. Such regulations and initiatives, both in the United States and abroad, are discussed in more
detail following the table.   

U.S. Federal Regulation     

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB):    Oversees and regulates financial institutions, including non-bank systemically important
financial institutions (SIFIs), bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies (SLHCs). We are currently subject to the FRB's examination, supervision and enforcement authority, and
reporting requirements, as an SLHC and as a SIFI.   

   Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC):    Charters, regulates and supervises all national banks and federal savings associations. The OCC
supervises and regulates AIG Federal Savings Bank, our federal savings association subsidiary.   

   Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC):    Oversees and regulates the U.S. securities and security-based swap markets, U.S. mutual funds, U.S.
broker-dealers and U.S. investment advisors. Principal regulator of the mutual funds offered by our broker-dealer subsidiaries owned by AIG Life and Retirement. The SEC is in the process of
implementing rules and regulations governing reporting, execution and margin requirements for security-based swaps entered into within the U.S. Our security-based swap activities conducted by Global
Capital Markets are subject to these rules and regulations.   

   Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC):    Oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and futures markets. The CFTC has implemented, and is
in the process of implementing, rules and regulations governing reporting, execution and margin requirements for swaps entered into within the U.S. or by U.S. persons. Our swap activities conducted by
Global Capital Markets are subject to these rules and regulations.   

   Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank):    Dodd-Frank has effected comprehensive changes to financial services regulation
and subjects us, or will subject us, as applicable, to additional federal regulation, including:  

minimum capital requirements for SLHCs and insured depository institutions;    
           enhanced prudential standards for SIFIs (including minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements, stress tests and
an early remediation regime process);   
           prohibitions on proprietary trading; and   
           increased regulation and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions.    

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
23  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

U.S. State Regulation     

State Insurance Regulators:    Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do
business. Regulation is generally derived from statutes that delegate supervisory and regulatory powers to a state insurance regulator, and primarily relates to the insurer's financial condition,
corporate conduct and market conduct activities.   

   NAIC Standards:    The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and
governed by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAIC itself is not a regulator, but through the NAIC, state insurance regulators
establish standards and best practices, conduct peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight.

Foreign Regulation     

Financial Stability Board (FSB):    Consists of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The FSB itself is not a regulator,
but it coordinates the work of national financial authorities and international
standard-setting bodies and develops and promotes implementation of regulatory, supervisory and other financial policies.   

   International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS):    Represents insurance regulators and supervisors of more than 200 jurisdictions in nearly 140
countries and seeks to promote globally consistent insurance industry supervision. The IAIS itself is not a regulator, but the FSB has directed the IAIS to create standards on issues such as financial
group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk and corporate governance and incorporate them into IAIS' Insurance Core Principles (ICPs). The FSB also charged IAIS with
developing a template for measuring systemic risks posed by insurer groups. Based on IAIS' assessment template, the FSB identified AIG as a global systemically important insurer (G-SII), which may
subject us to a policy framework that includes recovery and resolution planning requirements, enhanced group-wide supervision, basic capital requirements and higher loss absorbency capital
requirements. The IAIS is also developing ComFrame, a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs), which includes additional supervisory oversight based on
its ICPs but also adds requirements and supervisory processes pertaining to the international business activities of IAIGs. AIG currently meets the parameters set forth to define an IAIG.   

European Union (EU):    Certain financial services firms with regulated entities in the EU, such as us, are subject to supplementary supervision, which
seeks to enable supervisors to perform consolidated banking supervision and insurance group supervision at the level of the ultimate parent entity. The objective of supplementary supervision is to
detect, monitor, manage and control group risks. The UK Prudential Regulatory Authority, the United Kingdom's prudential regulator, is our EU supervisory coordinator. The EU has also established a set
of regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that include, among other things, risk mitigation, risk management and regulatory
reporting, which are effective, and clearing requirements expected to become effective in 2014.   

  The
EU's Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC) (Solvency II), which is expected to become effective in 2016, includes minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management
and public reporting standards. The impact on us will depend on whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is deemed "equivalent" to Solvency II; if the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is not
equivalent, then we could be subjected to Solvency II standards.   

   Regulation of Foreign Insurance Company Subsidiaries:    Generally, our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory
requirements. Our foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type
of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on participating policies. Some foreign countries also
regulate rates on various types of policies.

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
24  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

Federal Reserve Supervision

We
are regulated by the FRB and subject to its examination, supervision and enforcement authority and reporting requirements as a SLHC and as a SIFI.   

  We
are a SLHC within the meaning of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA). Because we were grandfathered as a unitary SLHC within the meaning of HOLA when we organized AIG Federal Savings Bank and became a
SLHC in 1999, we generally are not restricted under existing laws as to the types of business activities in which we may engage, as long as AIG Federal Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift
lender.   

  Dodd-Frank
has effected comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. The FRB supervises and
regulates SLHCs, and the OCC supervises and regulates federal savings associations, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and oversight
bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that has begun and is anticipated to continue over the next few years.   

Changes
mandated by Dodd-Frank include directing the FRB to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs. The FRB, the OCC and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) have established
revised minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements, which are based on accords established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, that apply to bank holding companies and SLHCs, as
well as to insured depository institutions, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank. The requirements, however, do not apply to SLHCs that are substantially engaged in insurance underwriting activities. The
FRB expects to implement a capital framework for SLHCs that are substantially engaged in insurance underwriting activities by the time covered SLHCs must comply with the requirements in 2015.   

As
required by Dodd-Frank, the FRB has also proposed enhanced prudential standards (including minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements) for SIFIs and has stated its intention to propose
enhanced prudential standards for SLHCs pursuant to HOLA. We cannot predict whether the capital regulations will be adopted as proposed or what enhanced prudential standards the FRB will promulgate
for SLHCs, either generally or as applicable to insurance businesses. Further, we cannot predict how the FRB will exercise general supervisory authority over us as a SIFI, although the FRB could, as a
prudential matter, for example, limit our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares of
AIG Common Stock or acquire or enter into other businesses. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations
will affect the financial markets generally, impact our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, or require us to raise additional capital or result in a downgrade of our
credit ratings.   

  On
July 8, 2013, AIG received notice from the U.S. Treasury that the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) has made a final determination that AIG should be supervised by the FRB as a
SIFI pursuant to Dodd-Frank. As a SIFI, we are regulated by the FRB both in that capacity and, for as long as AIG continues to control an insured depository institution, in our capacity as a SLHC. The
regulations applicable to SIFIs and to SLHCs, when all have been adopted as final rules, may differ materially from each other. AIG is working to restructure AIG Federal Savings Bank into a trust-only
thrift and deregister AIG as a SLHC.   

  As
a SIFI, we anticipate we will be subject to:  

stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to absorb losses due to adverse
economic conditions;   
           stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage,
liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of
severe financial distress; and   
           an early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.    

  Furthermore,
if the Council were to make an additional separate determination that AIG poses a "grave threat" to U.S. financial stability, we would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no
more than 15:1 and the FRB may:  

limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or become affiliated with another company;    
           restrict our ability to offer specified financial products;    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
25  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

require us to terminate specified activities;   
           impose conditions on how we conduct our activities; and   
           with approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S.
financial stability, require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities.    

  As
part of its general prudential supervisory powers, the FRB has the authority to limit our ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be permissible for us to engage in if we do not satisfy
certain requirements.   

Volcker Rule

On
December 10, 2013, the FRB, OCC, FDIC, SEC and CFTC adopted the final rule implementing Section 619 of Dodd-Frank, referred to as the "Volcker Rule." For as
long as AIG Federal Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender, we and our affiliates are considered banking entities for purposes of the rule and, after the end of the rule's conformance
period in July 2015 (subject to extension by the FRB until 2017),
would be prohibited from "proprietary trading" and sponsoring or investing in "covered funds," subject to the rule's exceptions. The term "covered funds" includes hedge, private equity or similar
funds and, in certain cases, issuers of asset-backed securities if such securities have equity-like characteristics. The Volcker Rule, as adopted, contains an exemption for proprietary trading and
"covered fund" sponsorship or investment by a regulated insurance company or its affiliate for the general account of the regulated insurance company or a separate account established by the regulated
insurance company. Even if we no longer control an insured depository institution, however, Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to subject SIFIs to additional capital requirements and quantitative
limitations if they engage in activities prohibited for banking entities under the Volcker Rule.   

Other Effects of Dodd-Frank

In
addition, Dodd-Frank may also have the following effects on us:  

As a SIFI, we will be required to provide to regulators an annual plan for our rapid and orderly resolution in the event
of material financial distress or failure, which must, among other things, ensure that AIG Federal Savings Bank is adequately protected from risks arising from our other entities and meet several
specific standards, including requiring a detailed resolution strategy and analyses of our material entities, organizational structure, interconnections and interdependencies, and management
information systems, among other elements.   
           The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and
safeguards for activities or practices that we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in.   
           Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer (such as us)
may be subject to a special liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code. That process is to be administered by the FDIC upon a coordinated determination by the Secretary of the Treasury,
the director of the Federal Insurance Office and the FRB, in consultation with the FDIC, that such a financial company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S.
financial stability.   
           Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions
that could affect various activities of AIG and its insurance and financial services subsidiaries, including (i) regulatory reporting for swaps (which are regulated by the CFTC) and
security-based swaps (which are regulated by the SEC), (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated exchanges or electronic facilities for certain swaps
and security-based swaps and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the CFTC has not yet finalized certain requirements, many other requirements have taken effect, such as swap
reporting, the mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps, and the mandatory trading of certain swaps on swap execution facilities or exchanges starting in February
2014. The SEC has proposed, but not yet finalized, rules with respect to the regulations and restrictions noted above. These regulations have affected and may further affect various activities of AIG
and its insurance and financial services subsidiaries as rules are finalized to implement additional elements of the regulatory regime.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
26  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

Similar
regulations have been proposed or adopted outside the United States. For instance, the EU has also established a set of new regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities under EMIR.
These requirements include, among other things, various risk mitigation, risk management and regulatory reporting requirements that have already become effective and clearing requirements that are
expected to become effective in 2014. These requirements could result in increased administrative costs with respect to our EU derivatives activities and overlapping or inconsistent regulation
depending on the ultimate application of cross-border regulatory requirements between and among U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions.   

Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included in the definition of "swap." If
that study concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap for stable value contracts
is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates participate in the stable value contract business. We cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study
or be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.   
           Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a director
appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with
respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting member of the Council . On December 12, 2013, the FIO released a Dodd-Frank mandated study on how to
modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States. The report concluded that the uniformity and efficiency of the current state based regulatory system could be improved
and highlighted areas in which Federal involvement is recommended. In the near-term, the FIO recommended that the states undertake reforms regarding capital adequacy, reform of insurer resolution
practices, and marketplace regulation.   
           Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as an independent agency within the FRB to regulate
consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB's general jurisdiction, although the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development has since transferred authority to the CFPB to investigate mortgage insurance practices. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the
CFPB's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.   
           Title XIV of Dodd-Frank also restricts certain terms for mortgage loans, such as loan fees, prepayment fees and other
charges, and imposes certain duties on a lender to ensure that a borrower can afford to repay the loan.    

  Dodd-Frank
imposes various assessments on financial companies, including, as applicable to us, ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to cover the costs of any
special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II (although the regulatory authority would have to take account of the amounts paid by us into state guaranty funds).   

  We
cannot predict whether these actions will become effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit
ratings. However, it is possible that such effect could be materially adverse. See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation for additional information.   

Other Regulatory Developments

As
described below, AIG has been designated as a Global Systemically Important Insurer (G-SII).   

  In
addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and taking steps to avoid similar
problems in the future. The FSB, consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations intended to produce
significant changes in how financial companies, particularly global systemically important financial institutions, should be regulated. These frameworks and recommendations address such issues as
financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including compensation, and a number of related issues associated with responses to the
financial crisis. The FSB has directed the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (the IAIS, headquartered in Basel, Switzerland) to create standards relative to these areas and
incorporate them within that body's Insurance Core Principles (ICPs). IAIS's ICPs form the baseline threshold against which countries' financial services regulatory efforts in the insurance sector are
measured. That measurement is made by periodic Financial Sector Assessment Program   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
27  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

(FSAP)
reviews conducted by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and the reports thereon spur the development of country-specific additional or amended regulatory changes. Lawmakers and
regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries conduct business have already begun implementing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with these recommendations,
including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies by the Financial Services Agency in Japan, financial and banking regulation adopted in France and compensation
regulations proposed or adopted by the financial regulators in Germany and the United Kingdom Prudential Regulation Authority.   

  The
FSB has also charged the IAIS with developing a template for measuring systemic risks posed by insurer groups. The IAIS has requested data from selected insurers around the world to determine
which elements of the
insurance sector, if any, could materially and adversely impact other parts of the global financial services sector (e.g., commercial and investment banking, securities trading, etc.). The IAIS
has provided its assessment template to the FSB. Based on this assessment template, on July 18, 2013, the FSB, in consultation with the IAIS and national authorities, identified an initial list
of G-SIIs, which includes AIG. The IAIS intends G-SIIs to be subject to a policy framework that includes recovery and resolution planning requirements, enhanced group-wide supervision, basic capital
requirements and higher loss absorbency (HLA) capital requirements. The IAIS is currently developing a basic capital requirement (BCR), which it expects to finalize by the end of 2014. The BCR is
expected to cover all group activities and could be implemented by national authorities as soon as 2015. The BCR will also serve as a foundation for the application of HLA capital requirements, which
the IAIS intends to focus on non-traditional and non-insurance activities. It is expected that the IAIS will develop HLA capital requirements by the end of 2015 and the G-SII policy framework will be
fully implemented by 2019.   

  The
IAIS is also developing a ComFrame, a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs), which includes additional supervisory oversight based on its ICPs but
also adds requirements and supervisory processes pertaining to the international business activities of IAIGs. As currently delineated under the ComFrame, AIG meets the parameters set forth to define
an IAIG. While we currently do not know when any ComFrame requirements will be finalized and become effective, the IAIS will undertake a field testing of the ComFrame, including the possibility of
additional capital requirements for IAIGs, which is expected to commence in the beginning of 2014. It is expected that implementation of the ComFrame would begin in 2019.   

  Legislation
in the European Union could also affect our international insurance operations. The Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC) (Solvency II), which was adopted on November 25, 2009 and is
expected to become effective in 2016, reforms the insurance industry's solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public
reporting standards. Solvency II is expected to be accompanied by Omnibus II, an EU proposal for a directive that also contains provisions for the capital treatment of products with long-term
guarantees. Additionally, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority recently introduced interim guidelines effective January 1, 2014 that provide regulators in EU Member States
with a framework to ensure that insurers make demonstrable progress towards meeting Solvency II requirements in 2016. The impact on us will depend on whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is
deemed "equivalent" to Solvency II; if the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is not equivalent, then we, along with other U.S.-based insurance companies, could be required to be supervised under
Solvency II standards. Whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime will be deemed "equivalent" is still under consideration by European authorities and remains uncertain, so we are not currently able
to predict the impact of Solvency II.   

  We
expect that the regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.   

Regulation of Insurance Subsidiaries

Certain
states and other jurisdictions require registration and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other
corporations. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the corporation that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and
prior approval of intercompany services and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. Our subsidiaries are
registered under such legislation in those jurisdictions that have such requirements.   

  Our
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business. Within the United States, the method of such regulation varies
but generally has its source in   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
28  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

  statutes
that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of the insurers and their corporate
conduct and market conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, including with respect to risk-based capital, the
licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the
benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition required to
be filed and reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the equity owners of these companies.   

  In
the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has
adopted, in substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the NAIC, which allows states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides for four incremental levels of regulatory action
regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would
regain a calculated RBC ratio above the respective threshold through a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The action thresholds are based on RBC levels that are calculated so that a company
subject to such actions is solvent but its future solvency is in doubt without some type of corrective action. The RBC formula computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to
various asset, premium and reserve items. These factors are developed to be risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater risk. The statutory surplus of each of our
U.S.-based life and property and casualty insurance subsidiaries exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of December 31, 2013.   

  If
any of our insurance entities fell below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of support to that entity, under formal
support agreements or capital maintenance agreements (CMAs) or otherwise. For additional details regarding CMAs that we have entered into with our insurance subsidiaries, see Item 7.
MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries   AIG Property
Casualty   AIG Life and Retirement and   Other Operations   Mortgage Guaranty.   

  The
NAIC's Model Regulation "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies" (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term
premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to these
guarantees, including certain ULSGs. See Item 1A   Risk Factors and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risks and additional information related to
these statutory reserving requirements.   

  The
NAIC has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative (SMI) which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout the U.S. financial regulatory system and is expected to lead
to a set of long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has stated that its focus will include the U.S. solvency framework, group solvency issues, capital requirements,
international accounting and regulatory standards, reinsurance and corporate governance.   

  A
substantial portion of AIG Property Casualty's business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, our subsidiaries
operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements, licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such authorities,
and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.   

  In
addition to licensing requirements, our foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security
deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on participating policies.
Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted
insurers are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing
constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
29  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

  See
Item 7. MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Regulation and Supervision and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

OUR COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

Our
businesses operate in a highly competitive global environment. Principal sources of competition are insurance companies, banks, and other non-bank financial
institutions. We consider our principal competitors to be other large multinational insurance organizations. We describe our competitive strengths, our strategies to retain existing customers and
attract new customers within each of our operating business segment descriptions.   

OUR EMPLOYEES

At
December 31, 2013, we had approximately 64,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.   

*     Includes approximately 600 employees of ILFC, which was held for sale at December 31, 2013.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
30  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF AIG

Information concerning the directors and executive officers of AIG as of February 20, 2014 is set forth below.   

All directors of AIG are elected for one-year terms at the annual meeting of shareholders.   

  All
executive officers are elected to one-year terms, but serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for the following individuals below, each of the executive officers has, for more than
five years, occupied an executive position with AIG or companies that are now its subsidiaries. There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant
to which the executive officer was elected to such position.   

   Robert Benmosche    joined AIG as Chief Executive Officer in August 2009. Previously, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
MetLife, Inc. from September 1998 to February 2006 (Chairman until April 2006). He served as President of MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2004, President and Chief Operating
Officer from November 1997 to June 1998, and Executive Vice President from September 1995 to October 1997. He has been a director of ILFC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, since June 2010.
Mr. Benmosche served as a member of the Board of Directors of Credit Suisse Group from 2002 to April 2013.   

   Michael R. Cowan    joined AIG as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining AIG, he was at Merrill Lynch
where he had served as Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Services, since 1998. Mr. Cowan began his career at Merrill Lynch in 1986 as a Financial Manager and later served as Chief
Administrative Officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. He was also Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Management Committee for the Global Private Client business, including
Merrill Lynch Asset Management.   

   Thomas Russo    joined AIG as Executive Vice President   Legal, Compliance, Regulatory Affairs and Government Affairs and General
Counsel in February 2010. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Russo was with the law firm of Patton Boggs, LLP, where he served as Senior Counsel. Prior to that, he was Chief Legal Officer of
Lehman Brothers
Holdings, Inc. Before joining Lehman Brothers in 1993, he was a partner at the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham   Taft and a member of its Management Committee.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
31  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1 / BUSINESS    

   Peter Hancock    joined AIG in February 2010 as Executive Vice President of Finance and Risk. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Hancock served as Vice
Chairman of KeyCorp, responsible for Key National Banking. Prior to KeyCorp, he served as Managing Director of Trinsum Group, Inc. Prior to that position, Mr. Hancock was at JP Morgan
for 20 years, eventually serving as head of its fixed income division and ultimately Chief Financial Officer.   

   Siddartha Sankaran    joined AIG in December 2010 as Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to that, he was a partner in the Finance and Risk
practice of Oliver Wyman Financial Services and served as Canadian Market Manager since 2006.   

   Kevin T. Hogan    joined AIG as Chief Executive Officer of AIG Global Consumer Insurance in October 2013. Mr. Hogan joined Zurich Insurance Group in
December 2008, serving as Chief Executive Officer of Global Life Americas until June 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer of Global Life from July 2010 to August 2013. From 1984 to 2008,
Mr. Hogan held various positions with AIG, including Chief Operating Officer of American International Underwriters, AIG's Senior Life Division Executive for China and Taiwan and Chief
Distribution Officer, Foreign Life and Retirement Services.   

AVAILABLE INFORMATION ABOUT AIG

Our
corporate website is    www.aig.com.    We make available free of charge, through the Investor Information section of our
corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as filed with the
SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC:  

Annual Reports on
Form 10-K   
            Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q   
            Current Reports on
Form 8-K   
            Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with the
SEC    

  Also
available on our corporate website:  

Charters for Board Committees:    Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance,
Compensation and Management Resources, Finance and Risk Management, Regulatory, Compliance and Public Policy, and Technology Committees   
            Corporate Governance Guidelines    (   which include
Director Independence Standards   )  
            Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (we
will post on our website any amendment or waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)   
            Employee Code of
Conduct   
            Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy    

  Except
for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual reference.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
32  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

ITEM 1A /  RISK FACTORS

Investing
in AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse
effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of our securities. Readers should
not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered carefully together with the other information
contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Further, many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar
business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of
the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   

MARKET CONDITIONS

Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.     Our businesses are highly
dependent on the economic environment, both in the U.S. and around the world. Extreme market events, such as the global financial crisis during 2008
and 2009, have at times led, and could in the future lead, to a lack of liquidity, highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset values across all classes, an erosion of investor and public
confidence, and a widening of credit spreads. Concerns and events beyond our control, such as uncertainty as to the U.S. debt ceiling, the continued funding of the U.S. government, U.S. fiscal and
monetary policy, the U.S. housing market, and concerns about European sovereign debt risk and the European banking industry, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect liquidity,
increase volatility, decrease asset prices, erode confidence and lead to wider credit spreads. Difficult economic conditions could also result in increased unemployment and a severe decline in
business across a wide range of industries and regions. These market and economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity.   

  Under
difficult economic or market conditions, we could experience reduced demand for our products and an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Contract holders may choose
to defer or cease paying insurance premiums. Other ways in which we could be negatively affected by economic conditions include, but are not limited
to:  

declines in the valuation and performance of our investment portfolio, including declines attributable to rapid increases
in interest rates;   
           increased credit losses;   
           declines in the value of other assets;   
           impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets;   
           additional statutory capital requirements;   
           limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;   
           a decline in new business levels and renewals;   
           a decline in insured values caused by a decrease in activity at client organizations;    
           an increase in liability for future policy benefits due to loss recognition on certain long-duration insurance contracts;    
           higher borrowing costs and more limited availability of credit;   
           an increase in policy surrenders and cancellations; and   
           a write-off of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC).    

   Sustained low interest rates may materially and adversely affect our profitability.    Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates
relative to historical levels. Sustained low interest rates can negatively affect the performance of our investment securities and reduce the level of investment income earned on our investment   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
33  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  portfolios.
If a low interest rate environment persists, we may experience slower investment income growth. Due to practical and capital markets limitations, we may not be able to fully mitigate our
interest rate risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities. Continued low interest rates could also impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the
reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued.   

INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO, CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS, INSURANCE AND OTHER EXPOSURES

The performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in interest rates.    Our
investment securities are subject to market risks and uncertainties. In particular, interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary policies, domestic and international
economic and political issues and other factors beyond our control. Changes in monetary policy or other factors may cause interest rates to rise, which would adversely affect the value of the fixed
income securities that we hold and could adversely affect our ability to sell these securities. In addition, the evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairments, which
may occur if interest rates rise, is a quantitative and qualitative process that is subject to significant management judgment. For a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain market risk
factors, see Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Market Risk Management. Furthermore, our alternative investment portfolio includes investments for
which changes in fair value are reported through operating income and are therefore subject to significant volatility. In an economic downturn or declining market, the reduction in our investment
income due to decreases in the fair value of alternative investments could have a material adverse effect on operating income.   

   Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy.    Our results of operations and financial condition have in the past been,
and may in the future be, adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our investment portfolio. We have concentrations in real estate and real estate-related securities, including residential
mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage loans. We also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money
center and global banks; U.S. state and local government issuers and authorities; PICC Group and PICC P C, as a result of our strategic investments; and Euro Zone financial institutions, governments
and corporations. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may adversely affect our investments to
the extent they are concentrated in such segments. Our ability to sell assets concentrated in such areas may be limited.   

   Concentration of our insurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects.    We may be exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our
insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for customers and counterparties. We manage these concentration risks by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures by factors
such as exposure type, industry, geographic region, counterparty and other factors. We also seek to use reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the limits
we wish to retain. In certain circumstances, however, these risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective for certain exposures. Also, our
exposure may be so large that even a slightly adverse experience compared to our expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition, or
result in additional statutory capital requirements for our subsidiaries.   

   Our valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in
changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.    During periods of market disruption, it may
be difficult to value certain of our investment securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain assets in normally active
markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the financial environment or market conditions in effect at that time. As a result, valuations may
include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods that are more complex. These values may not be realized in a market
transaction, may not reflect the loan value of the asset and may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value and/or an inability to
realize that value in a market transaction or secured lending transaction may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
34  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

RESERVES AND EXPOSURES

Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic
events.    Events such as hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, earthquakes, acts of terrorism, explosions and fires, cyber crimes, product defects, pandemic and other highly
contagious diseases, mass torts and other catastrophes have adversely affected our business in the past and could do so in the future. In addition, we recognize the scientific consensus that climate
change is a reality of increasing concern, indicated by higher concentrations of greenhouse gases, a warming atmosphere and ocean, diminished snow and ice, and sea level rise. We understand that
climate change potentially poses a serious financial threat to society as a whole, with implications for the insurance industry in areas such as catastrophe risk perception, pricing and modeling
assumptions. Because there is significant variability associated with the impacts of climate change, we cannot predict how physical, legal, regulatory and social responses may impact our business.   

  Such
catastrophic events, and any relevant regulations, could expose us to:  

widespread claim costs associated with property, workers' compensation, A H, business interruption and mortality and
morbidity claims;   
           loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets;   
           limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;   
           loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to the assumptions made in product pricing;    
           declines in value and/or losses with respect to companies and other entities whose securities we hold and counterparties
we transact business with and have credit exposure to, including reinsurers, and declines in the value of investments; and   
           significant interruptions to our systems and operations.    

  Catastrophic
events are generally unpredictable. Our exposure to catastrophes depends on various factors, including the frequency and severity of the catastrophes, the rate of inflation and the value
and geographic concentration of insured property and people. Vendor models and proprietary assumptions and processes that we use to manage catastrophe exposure may prove to be ineffective due to
incorrect assumptions or estimates.   

In
addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes could require us to pay the insured beyond the provisions of the original insurance policy and may
prohibit the application of a deductible, resulting in inflated catastrophe claims.   

  For
further details on potential catastrophic events, including a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk
Management   Insurance Operations Risks   AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks.   

   Insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss expenses.    We regularly review the adequacy of the
established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense and conduct extensive analyses of our reserves during the year. Our loss reserves, however, may develop adversely. Estimation of
ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process, particularly for long-tail casualty lines of business. These include, but are not limited to, general liability, commercial
automobile liability, environmental, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis management coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized
structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, D O and products liability.   

  While
we use a number of analytical reserve development techniques to project future loss development, reserves may be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors
that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be due to difficulties in predicting changes, such as changes in inflation, the
judicial environment, or other social or economic factors affecting claims. Any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time
after we record the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years. For a further discussion of our loss reserves, see Item 7. MD A   Results of
Operations  
Segment Results   AIG Property Casualty Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense and Critical   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
35  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  Accounting
Estimates   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense (AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty).   

   Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses.    Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of
reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy, and have continued our strategy, adopted in 2010, to improve the allocation of our reinsurance between traditional
reinsurance markets and the capital markets, such as through the utilization of catastrophe bonds, to manage risks more efficiently. While reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their
obligation to pay claims for losses insured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to them for the reinsured portion of the risk. For this reason, reinsurance is an important risk
management tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of
reinsurance. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. As a result, we may, at certain times, be forced to incur
additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In that case, we would have to accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of
business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries' reinsurers to the extent the reinsurance receivable is not
secured by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer may be unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as reinsurance recoverable for any
reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties of the contract, (ii) the terms of the contract cannot be legally enforced,
(iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court differently than intended, (iv) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we anticipated due to a flawed design of
the reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws and regulations, materially impacts a reinsurance transaction. The
insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of our agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
and liquidity. Additionally, the use of catastrophe bonds may not provide the same levels of protection as traditional reinsurance transactions and any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in the
catastrophe bond market, such as following a major catastrophe event, may limit our ability to access such market on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, some catastrophe bond transactions may be
based on an industry loss index rather than on actual losses incurred by us, which would result in residual risk. Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   

  We
currently have limited reinsurance coverage for terrorist attacks. Further, the availability of private sector reinsurance for terrorism is limited. As a result, we rely heavily on the Terrorism
Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA), which provides U.S. government risk assistance to the insurance industry to manage the exposure to terrorism incidents in the United
States. Under TRIPRA, once our losses for certain acts of terrorism exceed a deductible equal to 20 percent of our commercial property and casualty insurance premiums for the prior calendar
year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85 percent of losses in excess of our deductible, up to a total industry program limit of $100 billion. However, TRIPRA is scheduled to
expire in December 2014, and there is no assurance that TRIPRA will be renewed in its current form or at all. To the extent that TRIPRA is renewed on less favorable terms or is not renewed at all, we
may not hold adequate terrorism reinsurance coverage or reserves in the event of one or more insured terrorist incidents in the United States, which could result in a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   

  For
additional information on our reinsurance, see Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Insurance Operations Risks   AIG Property
Casualty Key Insurance Risks   Reinsurance Recoverable.   

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT

Our internal sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs.    We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses,
interest on our debt, maturing debt obligations and to meet any statutory capital requirements of our subsidiaries. If our liquidity is insufficient to meet our needs, we may at the time need to have
recourse to third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity, which may not be available or could be prohibitively expensive. The availability and cost of any additional
financing at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including general market conditions, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit, regulatory actions and our
credit ratings and credit capacity. It is also possible that, as a result of such recourse to external financing, customers, lenders or investors could develop a negative perception of our long-or
short-term financial   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
36  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  prospects.
Disruptions, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets, and downgrades in our credit ratings, may limit our ability to access external capital markets at times and on terms
favorable to us to meet our capital and liquidity needs or prevent our accessing the external capital markets or other financing sources. For a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7.
MD A   Liquidity and Capital Resources.   

   A downgrade in our credit ratings could require us to post additional collateral and result in the termination of derivative transactions.    Credit
ratings estimate a company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing. A downgrade of our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies
would require us to post additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we are a party, and could permit the termination of these derivative transactions. This could
adversely affect our business, our consolidated
results of operations in a reporting period or our liquidity. In the event of further downgrades of two notches to our long-term senior debt ratings, AIG would be required to post additional
collateral of $111 million, and certain of our counterparties would be permitted to elect early termination of contracts.   

   AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited.    As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends on AIG Common Stock and to make payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. The majority of our investments are held by our
regulated subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels
or because of regulatory limits. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments, dividends or distributions in an amount sufficient to enable AIG Parent to meet its cash requirements could have an
adverse effect on our operations, our ability to pay dividends or our ability to meet our debt service obligations.   

   AIG Parent's ability to support our subsidiaries is limited.    AIG Parent has in the past and expects to continue to provide capital to our subsidiaries
as necessary to maintain regulatory capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash flow obligations. If AIG Parent is unable to satisfy a capital need of a subsidiary,
the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in certain cases, could be seized by its regulator.   

   Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash to meet their needs due to the illiquidity of some of their investments.    Our subsidiaries have
investments in certain securities that may be illiquid, including certain fixed income securities and certain structured securities, private company securities, private equity funds and hedge funds,
mortgage loans, finance receivables and real estate. Collectively, investments in these assets had a fair value of $49 billion at December 31, 2013. Adverse real estate and capital
markets, and tighter credit spreads, have in the past, and may in the future, materially adversely affect the liquidity of our other securities portfolios, including our residential and commercial
mortgage-related securities portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our subsidiaries and AIG Parent is unable to provide it, it may be difficult for these
subsidiaries to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing these less liquid investments.   

   A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance companies could prevent them from writing new business and retaining customers and
business.    Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. IFS ratings measure an insurance
company's ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders. High ratings help maintain public confidence in a company's products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance its
competitive position. Downgrades of the IFS ratings of our insurance companies could prevent these companies from selling, or make it more difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and
services, or result in increased policy cancellations, termination of assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. Under credit rating agency policies concerning the relationship between
parent and subsidiary ratings, a downgrade in AIG Parent's credit ratings could result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance subsidiaries.   

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS

Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders, declining investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of DAC and record
additional liabilities for future policy benefits.    We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. DAC represents deferred costs
that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. The recovery of DAC is generally dependent upon the future profitability of the
related business, but DAC amortization varies based on the type of contract. For long-duration traditional business, DAC is   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
37  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  generally
amortized in proportion to premium revenue and varies with lapse experience. Actual lapses in excess of expectations can result in an acceleration of DAC amortization.   

  DAC
for investment-oriented products is generally amortized in proportion to estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are affected by a number of assumptions, including current and expected
interest rates, net investment income and spreads, net realized gains and losses, fees, surrender rates, mortality experience and equity market returns and volatility. If actual and/or future
estimated gross profits are less than originally expected, then the amortization of DAC would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. For
example, if interest rates rise rapidly and significantly, customers with policies that have interest crediting rates below the current market may seek competing products with higher returns and we
may experience an increase in surrenders and withdrawals of life and annuity contracts, resulting in a decrease in future profitability and an acceleration of the amortization of DAC.   

We
also periodically review products for potential loss recognition events, principally insurance-oriented products. This review involves estimating the future profitability of in-force business and
requires significant management
judgment about assumptions including mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns, including net realized capital gains (losses). If actual experience or estimates
result in projected future losses, we may be required to amortize any remaining DAC and record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense, which could negatively affect
our results of operations. For example, realized gains on investment sales in 2012 and 2013 have reduced future investment margins and required the recognition of additional liabilities for certain
payout annuities. For further discussion of DAC and future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 9 and 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

   Certain of our products offer guarantees that may increase the volatility of our results.    We offer variable annuity products that guarantee a certain
level of benefits, such as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value
benefits (GMAV). For GMDB, our most widely offered guaranteed benefit feature, the liabilities included in Future policyholder benefits at December 31, 2013 were $355 million. Our
economic hedging program utilizes derivative instruments, including equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap contracts, and is designed so that changes in value of the derivative
instruments move in the opposite direction of changes in the GMWB and GMAV embedded derivative liabilities. Differences between the change in fair value of GMWB and GMAV embedded derivative
liabilities and the hedging instruments can be caused by extreme and unanticipated movements in the equity markets, interest rates and market volatility, policyholder behavior and our inability to
purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off. While we believe that our actions have reduced the risks related to guaranteed benefits, our exposure is
not fully hedged, and we remain liable if counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we remain exposed to the risk that policyholder behavior and mortality may differ from our
assumptions. Finally, downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits,
reducing our net income and shareholders' equity. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates for more
information regarding these products.   

   Indemnity claims could be made against us in connection with divested businesses.    We have provided financial guarantees and indemnities in connection
with the businesses we have sold, including ALICO, as described in greater detail in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe the claims under these
indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these financial guarantees and indemnities.   

   Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations.    We provide insurance, investment and other financial products and services to
both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries. A substantial portion of our AIG Property Casualty business is conducted outside the United States, and we intend to continue to grow this
business. Operations outside the United States, particularly in developing nations, may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval,
nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect our other operations.   

  The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local
licenses may require AIG Parent to   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
38  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  meet
certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
conducting future business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, depending on the
magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country.   

   We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels.    Although we distribute our
products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we maintain relationships with certain key distributors. Distributors have in the past, and may in the future, elect to renegotiate the terms
of existing relationships, or reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as industry consolidation of distributors or other industry changes that increase
the competition for access to distributors, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. An interruption in certain key relationships
could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and financial condition.   

  In
addition, when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution, despite our training and compliance programs. If
our products are distributed to customers for whom they are unsuitable or distributed in any other inappropriate manner, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business.   

   Significant conditions precedent must be satisfied to complete the sale of the common stock of ILFC on the agreed terms.    On December 16, 2013,
AIG and AIG Capital Corporation (Seller), a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of AIG, entered into a definitive agreement (the AerCap Share Purchase Agreement) with AerCap Holdings N.V. (AerCap)
and AerCap Ireland Limited (Purchaser), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AerCap, for the sale of 100% of the common stock of ILFC by Seller to Purchaser (such transaction, the AerCap Transaction). Under
the terms of the AerCap Share Purchase Agreement, consummation of the AerCap Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions precedent, such as certain customary
conditions and other closing conditions, including the receipt of approvals or non-disapprovals from antitrust and other regulatory bodies. The AerCap Transaction was approved by AerCap shareholders
on February 13, 2014.   

  Any
relevant regulatory body may refuse its approval or may seek to make its approval subject to compliance by ILFC or the Purchaser with unanticipated or onerous conditions. Even if approval is not
required, the regulator may impose requirements on ILFC subsequent to consummation of the AerCap Transaction. We or the Purchaser might not agree to such conditions or requirements and may have a
contractual right to terminate the AerCap Share Purchase Agreement.   

  In
addition to other customary termination events, the Share Purchase Agreement allows termination by (i) AIG, Seller or Purchaser if the closing of the AerCap Transaction has not occurred on
or before September 16, 2014 (the Long-Stop Date), subject to an extension to December 16, 2014 for the receipt of certain approvals, (ii) AIG, Seller or Purchaser in the event
that approvals or non-disapprovals from certain regulatory bodies have not been obtained by the Long-Stop Date (as extended), (iii) AIG or Seller, if the AerCap board of directors withdraws or
adversely modifies its approval of the AerCap Transaction or (iv) AIG or Seller if all conditions are satisfied, AIG and Seller are prepared to close but Purchaser fails to close the AerCap
Transaction as required.   

  Because
of the closing conditions and termination rights applicable to the AerCap Transaction, completion of the AerCap Transaction is not assured or may be delayed or, even if the transaction is
completed, the terms of the sale may need to be significantly restructured.   

   The completion of the AerCap Transaction as contemplated could expose us to additional risks related to AerCap's stock and credit.    Upon completion of
the AerCap Transaction, we will hold approximately 46 percent of the common stock of AerCap. As a result, declines in the value of AerCap's common stock, and the other effects of our accounting
for this investment under the equity method of accounting, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a reporting period.   

  In
addition, in connection with the AerCap Transaction, AIG, AerCap, Purchaser, AerCap Ireland Capital Limited (AerCap Ireland) and certain subsidiaries of AerCap, as guarantors, entered into a credit
agreement for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility between AerCap Ireland, as borrower, and AIG, as lender and administrative agent (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Revolving Credit
Facility provides for an aggregate commitment of $1 billion and   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
39  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

permits
loans for general corporate purposes. An event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   

   Failure to complete the AerCap Transaction could negatively affect our businesses and financial results.    If the AerCap Transaction is not completed, the
ongoing businesses of ILFC and AIG may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:  

alternative plans to dispose of ILFC, such as through a sale or initial public offering, may be difficult to structure and
may take extended periods of time to implement, depending on, among other things, the global economic and regulatory environments and general market conditions;   
           we may not be able to realize equivalent or greater value for ILFC under an alternative asset monetization plan which
could impact the carrying values of ILFC's assets and liabilities;   
           we will have incurred certain significant costs relating to the disposition of ILFC without receiving the benefits of the
AerCap Transaction, and may incur further significant costs if an alternative monetization plan is undertaken;   
           negative customer perception could adversely affect ILFC's ability to compete for, maintain or win new and existing
business in the marketplace; and   
           potential further diversion of our management's time and attention.    

   Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.    We are party to numerous legal proceedings,
including securities class actions and regulatory and governmental investigations. Due to the nature of these proceedings, the lack of precise damage claims and the type of claims we are subject to,
we cannot currently quantify our ultimate or maximum liability for these actions. Developments in these unresolved matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition
or consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO) has brought suits against the United States (including the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York) challenging the government's assistance of AIG, pursuant to which (i) AIG entered into a credit facility with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; (ii) the United
States received an approximately 80 percent ownership interest in AIG; and (iii) AIG entered into transactions involving Maiden Lane III LLC. The United States has alleged that
AIG is obligated to indemnify the United States for any recoveries in these lawsuits. A determination that the United States is liable for damages in such suits, together with a determination that AIG
is obligated to indemnify the United States, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion of the SICO litigation
and other unresolved matters, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   If we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard the security of our data, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which
could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.    We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer, employee, and
company data and information. Some of these systems in turn, rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business
functions, including providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds,
providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability
to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a natural disaster, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or other disruption inside or outside
the U.S., our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time, and our employees may be unable to perform their duties for an extended
period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to unauthorized access, such as physical or electronic break-ins
or unauthorized tampering. Like other global companies, we have, from time to time, experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access,
systems failures and disruptions. AIG maintains cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information
being compromised. In some cases, such unauthorized access may not be immediately detected. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
40  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we
attempt to keep such information confidential, we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or
use appropriate controls to protect confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
the European Union or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The
compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could result in remediation costs, legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.   

REGULATION

Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or
reduce our profitability.    Our operations generally, and our insurance subsidiaries, in particular, are subject to extensive and potentially conflicting supervision and
regulation by national authorities and by the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition. State and
foreign regulators also periodically review and investigate our insurance businesses, including AIG-specific and industry-wide practices. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is the protection
of our insurance contract holders, and not our investors. The extent of domestic regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and
administrative authority to state insurance departments.   

  We
strive to maintain all required licenses and approvals. However, our businesses may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations. The relevant authority's
interpretation of the laws and regulations also may change from time to time. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not
have the required licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our
activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit them to supervise the business and
operations of an insurance company.   

  In
the U.S., the RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has adopted, in substantial
part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the NAIC, which specifies the regulatory actions the insurance regulator may take if an insurer's RBC calculations
fall below specific thresholds. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company.
Regulators at the federal and international levels are also considering the imposition of additional capital requirements on certain insurance companies, which may include us, that may augment or even
displace state-law RBC standards that apply at the legal entity level, and such capital calculations may be made on bases other than the statutory statements of our insurance subsidiaries. See "Our
status as a savings and loan holding company and a systemically important financial institution, as well as the enactment of Dodd-Frank, will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation,
which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and cash flows" and "Actions by foreign governments and regulators could subject us to substantial additional
regulation" below for additional information on increased capital requirements that may be imposed on us. We cannot predict the effect these initiatives may have on our business, results of
operations, cash flows and financial condition.   

  The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local
licenses may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, our insurance subsidiaries
could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country.   

  See
Item 1. Business   Regulation for further discussion of our regulatory environment.   

   Our status as a savings and loan holding company and a systemically important financial institution, as well as the enactment of Dodd-Frank , will subject us to substantial
additional federal regulation, which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and cash flows.    On July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank, which
effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States, was   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
41  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

signed
into law. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next
few years.   

  We
cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted, the level and magnitude of supervision we may become subject to, or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the
financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible that the regulations adopted under Dodd-Frank and our regulation by the FRB as an SLHC or as a SIFI
could significantly alter our business practices, limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to raise additional capital, and impose burdensome and costly requirements
and additional costs. Some of the regulations may also affect the perceptions of regulators, customers, counterparties, creditors or investors about our financial strength and could potentially affect
our financing costs.   

  See
Item 1. Business   Regulation for further discussion of the details of the aforementioned regulations to which AIG and its businesses are subject.   

   Actions by foreign governments and regulators could subject us to substantial additional regulation.    We cannot predict the impact laws and regulations
adopted in foreign jurisdictions may have on the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible such laws and regulations, and the impact of our
designation as a global systemically important insurer (G-SII), may significantly alter our business practices, limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to raise
additional capital, and impose burdensome requirements and additional costs. It is possible that the laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions will differ from one another and that they
could be inconsistent with the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions including the United States.   

  In
addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and taking steps to avoid similar
problems in the future. The FSB, consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations intended to produce
significant changes in how financial companies, particularly global systemically important financial institutions, should be regulated. These frameworks and recommendations address such issues as
financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, corporate governance including compensation, and a number of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. The FSB has
directed the IAIS to create standards relative to these areas and incorporate them within that body's ICPs. Lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries
conduct business have already begun implementing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with these recommendations.   

  The
FSB has also charged the IAIS with developing a template for measuring systemic risks posed by insurer groups. The IAIS has requested data from selected insurers around the world to determine
which elements of the insurance sector, if any, could materially and adversely impact other parts of the global financial services sector (e.g., commercial and investment banking, securities
trading, etc.). The IAIS has provided its assessment template to the FSB. Based on this assessment template, on July 18, 2013, the FSB, in consultation with the IAIS and national authorities,
identified an initial list of global systemically important insurers (G-SIIs), which includes AIG. The IAIS intends G-SIIs to be subject to a policy framework that includes recovery and resolution
planning requirements, enhanced group-wide supervision, basic capital requirements (BCR) and higher loss absorbency (HLA) capital requirements.   

  The
IAIS is also developing a ComFrame, a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs), which includes additional supervisory oversight based on its ICPs but
also adds requirements and supervisory processes pertaining to the international business activities of IAIGs. As currently delineated under the ComFrame, we meet the parameters set forth to define an
IAIG. While we currently do not know when any ComFrame requirements will be finalized and become effective, the IAIS will undertake a field testing of the ComFrame, including the possibility of
additional capital requirements for IAIGs, which is expected to commence in the beginning of 2014. It is expected that implementation of the ComFrame would begin in 2019.   

  Solvency
II Legislation in the European Union could also affect our international insurance operations by reforming minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management
and public reporting standards.   

  For
further details on these international regulations and their potential impact on AIG and its businesses, see Item 1. Business   Regulation   Other
Regulatory Developments.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
42  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

   The USA PATRIOT Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar laws that apply to us may expose us to significant penalties.    The operations of
our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including, in some cases, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which require companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor
their transactions for suspicious activities. Also, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or
allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government or with certain countries. The United Kingdom, the
European Union and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although we have instituted compliance programs to address these requirements, there are inherent risks in global
transactions.   

   Attempts to efficiently manage the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline AXXX may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.    The NAIC Model Regulation "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies" (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional
statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees. In addition, NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (AXXX)
(Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement manages the capital impact on its life insurers of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX through affiliated reinsurance transactions, to
maintain our ability to offer competitive pricing and successfully market such products. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on statutory reserving
requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX and our use of affiliated reinsurance. The NAIC, the New York State Department of Financial Services and other regulators have increased
their focus on life insurers' affiliated reinsurance transactions used to satisfy certain reserve requirements or to manage the capital impact of certain statutory reserve requirements, particularly
transactions using captive insurance companies or special purpose vehicles. While AIG Life and Retirement does not use captive or special purpose vehicle structures for this purpose, we cannot predict
whether any applicable insurance laws will be changed in a way that prohibits or adversely impacts the use of affiliated reinsurance. If regulations change, we could be required to increase statutory
reserves, increase prices on our products or incur higher expenses to obtain reinsurance, which could adversely affect our competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. If our
actions to efficiently manage the impact of Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX on future sales of term and universal life insurance products are not successful, we may reduce the sales of these
products or incur higher operating costs, or it may impact our sales of these products.   

   New regulations promulgated from time to time may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively.   
Legislators and regulators may periodically consider various proposals that may affect the profitability of certain of our businesses. New regulations may even affect our ability to conduct certain
businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions. These
proposals could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size, activities, geography, government support or other criteria).
It is uncertain whether and how these and other such proposals would apply to us or our competitors or how they could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and ability to
compete effectively.   

   An "ownership change" could limit our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards to offset future taxable income.    As of December 31,
2013, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $34.2 billion, $ 1.1 billion in capital loss carryforwards and $5.8 billion in foreign tax credits
(tax losses and credits carryforwards). Our ability to use such tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an "ownership change" as defined in
Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of AIG Parent's ownership (by value) of one or more
"5-percent shareholders" (as defined in the Code) has increased by more than 50 percent over the lowest percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years
(calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change tax losses and credits carryforwards equal
to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The annual
limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards arising from an
ownership change under Section 382 would depend on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership change.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
43  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  If
we were to experience an "ownership change", it is possible that a significant portion of our tax losses and credits carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future
taxable income.   

  On
March 9, 2011, our Board adopted our Tax Asset Protection Plan (the Plan) to help protect these tax losses and credits carryforwards, and on January 8, 2014, the Board adopted an
amendment to the Plan, extending its expiration date to January 8, 2017. The Board intends to submit the amendment of the Plan to our shareholders for ratification at our 2014 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, shareholders adopted a protective amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Protective Amendment), which is designed to prevent
certain transfers of AIG Common Stock that could result in an "ownership change" and currently expires on May 11, 2014. The Board intends to submit to our shareholders for approval at our 2014
Annual Meeting of Shareholders an amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to adopt a successor to the Protective Amendment that contains substantially the same terms as the Protective
Amendment but would expire on the third anniversary of the date of our 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.   

  The
Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood of an "ownership change" by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a 4.99 percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any
existing 4.99 percent shareholder from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment generally restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock that would
(i) increase the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG stock then outstanding or (ii) increase the percentage of AIG stock owned by a Five Percent Stockholder (as
defined in the Plan). Despite the intentions of the Plan and the Protective Amendment to deter and prevent an "ownership change", such an event may still occur. In addition, the Plan and the
Protective Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for AIG
Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock
transaction.   

   Changes in tax laws could increase our corporate taxes, reduce our deferred tax assets or make some of our products less attractive to consumers.   
Changes in tax laws or their interpretation could negatively impact our
business or results. Some proposed changes could have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate by reducing deductions or increasing income inclusions, such as by limiting rules that allow for
deferral of tax on certain foreign insurance income. Conversely, other changes, such as lowering the U.S. federal corporate tax rate discussed recently in the context of tax reform, could reduce the
value of our deferred tax assets. In addition, changes in the way foreign taxes can be credited against U.S. taxes, methods for allocating interest expense, the ways insurance companies calculate and
deduct reserves for tax purposes, and impositions of new or changed premium, value added and other indirect taxes could increase our tax expense, thereby reducing earnings.   

  In
addition to proposing to change the taxation of corporations in general and insurance companies in particular, the Executive Branch of the U.S. Government and Congress have considered proposals
that could increase taxes on owners of insurance products. For example, there are proposals that would limit the deferral of tax on income from life and annuity contracts relative to other investment
products. These changes could reduce demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts, or cause consumers to shift from these contracts to other investments, which would reduce our income
due to lower sales of these products or potential increased surrenders of in-force business.   

  Governments'
need for additional revenue makes it likely that there will be continued proposals to change tax rules in ways that would reduce our earnings. However, it remains difficult to predict
whether or when there will be any tax law changes having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.   

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS OF ILFC PRIOR TO COMPLETION OF THE AERCAP TRANSACTION

We will be subject to the following risks until we complete the AerCap Transaction:   

   Our aircraft leasing business depends on lease revenues and exposes us to the risk of lessee nonperformance.    A decrease in ILFC's customers' ability to
meet their obligations to ILFC under their leases may negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.   

   Customer demand for certain aircraft may be lower than anticipated, which could negatively impact ILFC's business.    Aircraft are long-lived assets and
demand for a particular model and type can decline over time. Demand may fall for a variety of reasons, including obsolescence following the introduction of newer technologies, market saturation due
to increased production rates, technical problems associated with a particular model, new   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
44  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  manufacturers
entering the marketplace, additional governmental regulation, or the overall health of the airline industry. This may result in declining lease rates, losses on sales, impairment charges
or fair value adjustments and may adversely affect ILFC's business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   

COMPETITION AND EMPLOYEES

We face intense competition in each of our businesses.    Our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both
domestically and overseas. Our principal competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as banks, investment banks and other non-bank financial institutions. The insurance
industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries compete with approximately 4,000 other stock companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual
insurance companies and other underwriting organizations. AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries compete in the U.S. with approximately 2,300 life insurance companies and other participants in related
financial services fields. Overseas, our subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies.   

  The
past reduction of our credit ratings and past negative publicity have made, and may continue to make, it more difficult to compete to retain existing customers and to maintain our historical
levels of business with existing customers and counterparties. General insurance and life insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, and terms and
conditions. Retirement services companies compete through
crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A decline in our position as to any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability.   

   Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our
business.    Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Due to the intense competition in our industry for key employees with
demonstrated ability, we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. Losing any of our key people also could have a material adverse effect on our operations given their skills, knowledge of our
business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees.   

   Mr. Benmosche may be unable to continue to provide services to AIG due to his health.    Robert Benmosche, our President and Chief Executive
Officer, was diagnosed with cancer and has been undergoing treatment for his disease. He continues to fulfill all of his responsibilities and has stated his desire to continue in such roles until the
first quarter of 2015. However, his condition may change and prevent him from continuing to perform these roles.   

   Managing key employee succession and retention is critical to our success.    We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the
succession of our senior management and other key employees. While we have succession plans and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our employees, our succession plans may not operate
effectively and our compensation plans cannot guarantee that the services of these employees will continue to be available to us.   

   Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses.    There have been a number of cases involving
fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to
document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, misuse of customer or proprietary information, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or our internal policies may
result in losses. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that we have in place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.   

ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS

Actual experience may differ from management's estimates used in the preparation of financial statements.    Our financial
statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP), which requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant
degree of judgment. The accounting policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore may be viewed as critical accounting estimates, are described
in Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation.
These estimates are based on judgment, current facts and circumstances, and, when applicable,   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
45  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS    

  internally
developed models. Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.   

   Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial
position.    Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt
new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued
but are not yet required to be implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The FASB and International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) have ongoing projects to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts. While the final resolution of changes to U.S. GAAP and International Financial
Reporting Standards pursuant to these projects is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products could have a significant impact on our future financial reports, operations,
capital management and business. Further, the adoption of a new insurance contracts standard as well as other future accounting standards could have a material effect on our reported results of
operations and reported financial condition.   

   Changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, and expected compensation for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in
increased expenses and reduce our profitability.    We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return
on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may
result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our pension and postretirement benefit plans.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
46  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1B / UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    

ITEM 1B /  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

There
are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG's fiscal year relating to AIG's periodic or current reports under
the Exchange Act.    

ITEM 2 /  PROPERTIES

AIG
and its subsidiaries operate from over 400 offices in the United States and approximately 600 offices in over 75 foreign countries. The following offices are located in buildings in the United
States owned by AIG and its subsidiaries:   

AIG Property Casualty:   

AIG Life and Retirement:   

175 Water Street in New York,
New York  
     
                 Amarillo, Ft. Worth and
Houston, Texas  

Wilmington,
Delaware  
     
                 Nashville,
Tennessee  

Stevens Point,
Wisconsin  

San Juan, Puerto
Rico  

Other Operations:   

Greensboro and
Winston-Salem, North Carolina  

Livingston, New
Jersey  

Stowe, Vermont  

In addition, AIG Property Casualty owns offices in approximately 20 foreign countries and jurisdictions including Argentina, Bermuda, Colombia, Ecuador,
Japan, Mexico, the U.K., Taiwan, and Venezuela. The remainder of the office space utilized by AIG and its subsidiaries is leased. AIG believes that its leases and properties are sufficient for its
current purposes.   

LOCATIONS OF CERTAIN ASSETS

As
of December 31, 2013, approximately 9 percent of the consolidated assets of AIG were located outside the U.S. and Canada, including $295 million of cash and securities on
deposit with regulatory authorities in those locations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional geographic information. See Note 6 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for total carrying values of cash and securities deposited by our insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities.   

  Operations
outside the U.S. and Canada and assets held abroad may be adversely affected by political developments in foreign countries, including tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory
policy, as well as by consequence of hostilities and unrest. The risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon AIG vary from country to country and cannot be predicted. If expropriation or
nationalization does occur, AIG's policy is to take all appropriate measures to seek recovery of any affected assets. Certain of the countries in which AIG's business is conducted have currency
restrictions that generally cause a delay in a company's ability to repatriate assets and profits. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Business and Operations for additional
information.    

ITEM 3 /  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 15   Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.    

ITEM 4 /  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not
applicable.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
47  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 5 / MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES    

PART II

ITEM 5 /  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

AIG's
common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: AIG), as well as on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. There were approximately 36,319
stockholders of record of AIG Common Stock as of January 31, 2014.   

The following table presents high and low closing sale prices of AIG Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for each quarter of 2013
and 2012:   

DIVIDENDS

On
August 1, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.10 per share, which was paid on September 26, 2013 to shareholders
of record on September 12, 2013.   

  On
October 31, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.10 per share, which was paid on December 19, 2013 to shareholders of record on
December 5, 2013.   

  On
February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.125 per share, payable on March 25, 2014 to shareholders of record on March 11,
2014.   

  Any
payment of dividends must be approved by AIG's Board of Directors. In determining whether to pay any dividend, our Board of Directors may consider AIG's financial position, the performance of our
businesses, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, available capital, the existence of investment opportunities, and other factors. AIG is subject to restrictions
on the payment of dividends and purchases of AIG Common Stock as a result of being regulated as a SLHC, and AIG may become subject to other restrictions on the payment of dividends and repurchases of
AIG Common Stock as a SIFI and a G-SII. See Item 1. Business   Regulation and Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation for further discussion.   

  For
a discussion of certain restrictions on the payment of dividends to AIG by some of its insurance subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity, Capital and
Credit   AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited, and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

Our
table of equity compensation plans will be included in the definitive proxy statement for AIG's 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The definitive proxy statement will
be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of AIG's fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
48  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 5 / MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES    

PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The following table provides the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of AIG or any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of AIG Common Stock during the three months ended December 31, 2013:   

On August 1, 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock, with an aggregate purchase price of up to
$1.0 billion, from time to time in the open market, private purchases, through forward, derivative, accelerated repurchase or automatic repurchase transactions or otherwise. The authorization
has no set expiration or termination date. AIG purchased approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock pursuant to the authorization in 2013 for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $597 million. On February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors increased the August 1, 2013 authorization to repurchase shares of AIG Common Stock by
$1.0 billion, resulting in an aggregate remaining authorization of approximately $1.4 billion.   

  See
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on AIG share purchases.   

COMMON STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The
following Performance Graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on AIG Common Stock for a five-year period (December 31, 2008 to December 31,
2013) with the cumulative total return of the S P's 500 stock index (which includes AIG) and a peer group of companies consisting of 15 insurance companies to which we compare our business and
operations:   

ACE Limited  
     
                 Lincoln National
Corporation  

AEGON, N.V.  
     
                 MetLife,
 Inc.  

Aflac
Incorporated  
     
                 Principal Financial Group,
 Inc.  

Allianz Group  
     
                 Prudential Financial,
 Inc.  

AXA Group  
     
                 The Travelers Companies,
 Inc.  

The Chubb
Corporation  
     
                 XL
Capital Ltd.  

CNA Financial
Corporation  
     
                 Zurich Insurance
Group  

Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
49  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 5 / MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES    

Five-Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Returns     

   Value of $100 Invested on December 31, 2008     

Dividend reinvestment has been assumed and returns have been weighted to reflect relative stock market capitalization.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
50  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 6 / SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

ITEM 6 /  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Selected Consolidated Financial Data should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the
Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere herein.   

(a)  Comparability
between 2010 and 2009 data is affected by the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of 2010. Book value per share, excluding Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) is a non-GAAP measure. See Item 7. MD A   Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional information. Comparability of 2010 and 2009 is affected by a one for twenty
reverse stock split.   

  (b)  Reduced
by fourth quarter reserve strengthening charges of $4.2 billion and $2.2 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to the annual review of AIG Property
Casualty loss and loss adjustment reserves.   

  (c)  Catastrophe-related
losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG Property Casualty in excess of $10 million each.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
51  

ITEM 6 / SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

Items Affecting Comparability Between Periods     

  The
following are significant developments that affected multiple periods and financial statement captions. Other items that affected comparability are included in the footnotes to the table presented
immediately above.   

Adjustments to Federal Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance

AIG
concluded that $18.4 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance for the U.S. consolidated income tax group should be released through the Consolidated
Statements of Income in 2011. The valuation allowance resulted primarily from losses subject to U.S. income taxes recorded from 2008 through 2010. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion.   

Aircraft Leasing

We
determined ILFC no longer met the criteria at December 31, 2013 to be presented in discontinued operations. ILFC operating results, which were previously presented
as discontinued operations, have
been reclassified as continuing operations in all periods. ILFC's results are reflected in Aircraft leasing revenue and Aircraft leasing expense, and the loss associated with the 2012 classification
of ILFC as held for sale is included in Net loss on sale of properties and divested businesses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The assets and liabilities of ILFC are classified as held for
sale at December 31, 2013 and 2012. See Notes 1 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion.   

Capitalization and Book Value Per Share

As
a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the remaining SPV Preferred Interests held by the FRBNY of approximately $26.4 billion
were purchased by AIG and transferred to the Department of the Treasury. The SPV Preferred Interests were no longer considered permanent equity on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheets, and were
classified as redeemable noncontrolling interests. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   

   The following table presents pro forma ratios as if the Recapitalization had been consummated in 2009 and a reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share,
excluding Accumulated other comprehensive     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
52  

ITEM 6 / SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

income (loss), which is a non-GAAP measure. See Item 7. MD A   Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional information.*   

*     Amounts
for periods after December 31, 2009 have been revised to reflect reclassification of income taxes from AOCI to additional paid in capital to correct the presentation of
components of AIG shareholders' equity. These income tax items related to the creation in 2009 of special purpose vehicles that held our interests in AIA Group Limited (AIA) and American Life
Insurance Company (ALICO). There was no effect on Total AIG shareholders' equity or on Total equity as a result of this reclassification.   

FRBNY Activity and Effect on Interest Expense in 2010

The
decline in interest expense in 2010 was due primarily to a reduced weighted-average interest rate on borrowings, a lower average outstanding balance and a decline in
amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset related to the partial repayment of the credit facility provided by the FRBNY (the FRBNY Credit Facility). On January 14, 2011, AIG repaid the
remaining $20.7 billion and terminated this facility, resulting in a net $3.3 billion pretax charge in the first quarter of 2011, representing primarily the accelerated amortization of
the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset included in Net loss on extinguishment of debt. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Recapitalization.   

  As
a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the preferred interests (the SPV Preferred Interests) in the special purpose vehicles that held remaining AIA shares and
the proceeds of the AIA initial public offering and the ALICO sale (the SPVs) were transferred to the Department of the Treasury. After such closing, the SPV Preferred Interests were not considered
permanent equity on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheets and were classified as redeemable noncontrolling interests.   

Asset Dispositions in 2011 and 2013

We
entered into an agreement to sell ILFC on December 16, 2013 and executed multiple asset dispositions in 2011, as further discussed in Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
53  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 /  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION   

  This
Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available documents may include, and officers and representatives of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) may from time to time
make, projections, goals, assumptions and statements that may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These projections,
goals, assumptions and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIG's belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIG's
control. These projections, goals, assumptions and statements include statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "view,"
"target" or "estimate." These projections, goals, assumptions and statements may address, among other things:   

the monetization of AIG's
interests in International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC), including whether AIG's proposed sale of ILFC will be completed and if completed, the timing and final terms of such sale;                   AIG's exposures to subprime mortgages, monoline insurers, the residential and
commercial real estate markets, state and municipal bond issuers and sovereign bond issuers;                   AIG's exposure to European governments and European financial institutions;  
     
                 AIG's strategy for risk
management;                   AIG's generation of
deployable capital;                   AIG's return on
equity and earnings per share;                   AIG's
strategies to grow net investment income, efficiently manage capital and reduce expenses;                   AIG's strategies for customer retention, growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves; and                   the revenues and combined ratios of AIG's subsidiaries.  

It is possible that AIG's actual results and financial condition will differ, possibly materially, from the results and financial condition indicated in these
projections, goals, assumptions and statements. Factors that could cause AIG's actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections, goals, assumptions and statements
include:   

changes in market conditions;
                  the occurrence of catastrophic events,
 both natural and man-made;                   significant legal proceedings;                   the timing and applicable requirements of any new regulatory framework to which AIG is subject as a savings and loan holding company (SLHC), as a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) and as a global systemically important
insurer (G-SII);                   concentrations in
AIG's investment portfolios;                   actions
by credit rating agencies;  
     
                 judgments concerning casualty
insurance underwriting and insurance liabilities;                
  judgments concerning the recognition of deferred tax assets; and                   such other factors discussed in:                   Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and                   this Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any projections, goals, assumptions or other statements, whether
written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
54  

Table of Contents   

   The MD A is organized as follows:   

INDEX TO ITEM 7     

Throughout the MD A, we use certain terms and abbreviations which are summarized in the Glossary and Acronyms.   

  AIG
has incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K to assist readers seeking additional
information related to a particular subject.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
55  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7 / USE OF NON-GAAP MEASURES    

USE OF NON-GAAP MEASURES   

  In
Item 6. Selected Financial Data and throughout this MD A, we present our financial condition and results of operations in the way we believe will be most meaningful, representative and most
transparent. Some of the measurements we use are "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC rules and regulations. GAAP is the acronym for "accounting principles generally accepted in the United States."
The non-GAAP financial measures we present may not be comparable to similarly-named measures reported by other companies.   

   Book Value Per Common Share Excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (AOCI)    is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per-share
basis. We believe Book Value Per Common Share Excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of non-cash items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, including
changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio and foreign currency translation adjustments. Book Value Per Common Share Excluding AOCI is derived by dividing Total AIG
shareholders' equity, excluding AOCI, by Total common shares outstanding. The reconciliation to book value per common share, the most comparable GAAP measure, is presented in Item 6. Selected
Financial Data.   

  We
use the following operating performance measures because we believe they enhance understanding of the underlying profitability of continuing operations and trends of AIG and our business segments.
We believe they also allow for more meaningful comparisons with our insurance competitors. When we use these measures, reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure are provided in the Results
of Operations section of this MD A.   

AIG   After-tax operating income (loss) attributable to
AIG     is derived by excluding the following items from net income (loss) attributable to AIG: income (loss) from discontinued operations, net loss (gain) on sale of divested
businesses and properties, income from divested businesses, legacy tax adjustments primarily related to certain changes in uncertain tax positions and other tax adjustments, legal reserves
(settlements) related to "legacy crisis matters," deferred income tax valuation allowance (releases) charges, changes in fair value of AIG Life and Retirement fixed maturity securities designated to
hedge living benefit liabilities (net of interest expense), changes in benefit reserves and deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and sales inducement assets
(SIA) related to net realized capital (gains) losses, AIG Property Casualty other (income) expense   net, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net realized capital (gains) losses,
non-qualifying derivative hedging activities, excluding net realized capital (gains) losses, and bargain purchase gain. "Legacy crisis matters" include favorable and unfavorable settlements related to
events leading up to and resulting from our September 2008 liquidity crisis and legal fees incurred by AIG as the plaintiff in connection with such legal matters.    
             AIG Property Casualty    

Pre-tax operating income (loss):    includes both underwriting income (loss)
and net investment income, but excludes net realized capital (gains) losses, other (income) expense   net, legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters described above, and
bargain purchase gain. Underwriting income (loss) is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred, acquisition expenses and general operating expenses.    
            Ratios:    AIG Property Casualty, along with most property and casualty
insurance companies, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net
premiums earned, the amount of claims and claims adjustment expense, and the amount of other underwriting expenses that would be incurred. A combined ratio of less than 100 indicates underwriting
income and a combined ratio of over 100 indicates an underwriting loss. The underwriting environment varies across countries and products, as does the degree of litigation activity, all of which
affect such ratios. In addition, investment returns, local taxes, cost of capital, regulation, product type and competition can have an effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected
in underwriting income and associated ratios.   

Accident year loss and combined ratios, as adjusted:    both the accident
year loss and combined ratios, as adjusted, exclude catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting.
Catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG Property Casualty in excess of $10 million each.    

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
56  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / USE OF NON-GAAP MEASURES    

AIG Life and Retirement    

Pre-tax operating income (loss):    is derived by excluding the following
items from pre-tax income (loss): legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters described above, changes in fair values of fixed maturity securities designated to hedge living benefit liabilities
(net of interest expense), net realized capital (gains) losses, and changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA, and SIA related to net realized capital (gains) losses.    
            Premiums and deposits:    includes direct and assumed amounts received on
traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life, investment-type annuity contracts,
guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) and mutual funds.   
     
         Other Operations      Pre-tax operating income (loss):
pre-tax income (loss) excluding certain legal reserves (settlements) related to legacy crisis matters described above, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net realized capital (gains) losses, net
loss (gain) on sale of divested businesses and properties, change in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA, and SIA related to net realized capital (gains) losses and income from divested businesses,
including Aircraft Leasing.    

Results
from discontinued operations are excluded from all of these measures.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
57  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Executive Overview   

  This
overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to current or potential investors in AIG's
securities. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K in its entirety for a complete description of events, trends, uncertainties, risks and critical accounting estimates affecting AIG
and its subsidiaries.   

Executive Summary     

Financial Performance

AIG Property Casualty    pre-tax operating income improved in 2013 compared to 2012. Underwriting performance improved in 2013,
as evidenced by the accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, which declined compared to the prior year. The improvement in pre-tax operating income also reflected lower catastrophe losses, and an
increase in reserve discount compared to the prior year, partially offset by adverse prior year development. Net investment income increased in 2013 compared to 2012 due to an increase in alternative
investment income and income associated with PICC P C shares, which are accounted for under the fair value option.   

   AIG Life and Retirement    reported growth in premiums and deposits primarily due to strong sales of annuities in our Retirement Income Solutions and Fixed
Annuities product lines and increased Retail Mutual Fund sales. Pre-tax operating income improved in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily from active spread management and growth in fee income, as well as
adjustments to update certain estimated gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items in our investment-oriented product lines.   

   Mortgage Guaranty    pre-tax operating income improved in 2013 compared to 2012 due to an increase in net premiums earned, a decline in delinquency rates
and improving cure rates, which drove lower incurred losses. New insurance written increased in 2013 compared to 2012 due to elevated levels of mortgage refinancing activity during 2013 and the market
acceptance of UGC's risk-based pricing model by approximately 300 new lenders.   

   Our investment portfolio performance,    excluding gains recognized in 2012 from our previous investments in Maiden Lane II LLC (ML II), Maiden Lane
III LLC (ML III) and AIA Group Limited (AIA), improved in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in alternative investment income largely as a result of favorable equity
market performance, partially offset by the effect of our reinvestment of the proceeds from investment activities in a low interest rate environment.   

Net realized capital gains    improved in 2013 compared to 2012 due to lower levels of other-than-temporary impairments on investments, partially offset by
impairments on investments in life settlements.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
58  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Our Performance   Selected Indicators

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
59  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
60  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

*     Includes
operating borrowings of other subsidiaries and consolidated investments and hybrid debt securities.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
61  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Liquidity and Capital Resources Highlights

We reduced our debt    in 2013 as a result of maturities, repayments and repurchases of $9.7 billion. Partially
offsetting this decrease were the issuances of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior notes due 2020 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior notes
due 2024.   

We maintained financial flexibility at AIG Parent in 2013    through $4.1 billion in cash dividends from AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries and
$4.4 billion in cash dividends and loan repayments from AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries.   

   Our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock on August 1, 2013,    with an aggregate purchase price of up to
$1.0 billion, from time to time in the open market, private purchases, through forward, derivative, accelerated repurchase or automatic repurchase transactions or otherwise. During 2013, we
repurchased approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock) under this authorization at a total cost of approximately $597 million.   

Our Board of Directors increased our AIG Common Stock share repurchase authorization by $1.0 billion on February 13, 2014   , resulting in an
aggregate remaining repurchase authorization of approximately $1.4 billion.   

   We paid a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock    of $0.10 per share on each of September 26, 2013 and December 19, 2013.   

   On February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock    of $0.125 per share, payable on March 25, 2014
to shareholders of record on March 11, 2014.   

   We announced an agreement to sell ILFC,    which will support our capital management initiatives, sharpen our business focus, and enable us to redeploy
assets in a more productive manner.   

  Additional
discussion and other liquidity and capital resources developments are included in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources herein.   

Investment Highlights

Net
investment income decreased 22 percent to $15.8 billion in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to gains recognized in 2012 from our previous investments
in ML II, ML III and AIA.   

  Net
investment income for our insurance operations increased by approximately $645 million in 2013 compared to 2012, due to higher alternative investment income in 2013, driven primarily by
favorable equity market performance, which was partially offset by gains recognized in 2012 from our previous investment in ML II. While corporate debt securities represented the core of new
investment allocations, we continued to make investments in structured securities and fixed income securities with favorable risk versus return characteristics to improve yields and increase net
investment income.   

  Net
unrealized gains in our available for sale portfolio declined to approximately $12 billion as of December 31, 2013 from approximately $25 billion as of December 31,
2012 due to rising interest rates over the period and the realization of approximately $2.5 billion in gains from sales of securities.   

Other-than-temporary
impairments were significantly lower relative to the prior year period partly driven by strong performance in our structured products portfolios due to favorable developments in
the housing sector.   

  The
overall credit rating of our fixed maturity portfolio was largely unchanged from last year. Impairments on investments in life settlements increased in 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of updated
longevity assumptions in the valuation tables used to estimate future expected cash flows.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
62  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Risk Management Highlights

Our Risk Management Process

Risk management is an integral part of managing our businesses. It is a key element of our approach to corporate governance. We have an
integrated process for managing risks throughout the organization. The framework of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system provides senior management with a consolidated view of our major risk positions.       Our risk management process includes:         An enhanced risk governance structure that supports
consistent and transparent decision making.       We have revised our corporate policies to ensure that accountability for the implementation and oversight of each policy is better aligned with individual
corporate executives while specialized risk governance committees already in operation receive regular reporting regarding policy compliance.          Risk
committees at our corporate level as well as in each business unit that manage the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture encompassing all significant risk categories.       Our Board of
Directors oversees the management of risk through the complementary functioning of the Finance and Risk Management Committee (the FRMC) and the Audit Committee, as well as through its regular interaction with other committees of the
Board.  
     
          Risk
Management  
          
              We remain committed to adhering to the highest standards of
risk management and corporate governance.                   We continue to promote awareness and accountability for key risk, business decisions, and performance.                   We manage risks better by applying performance metrics that enable us to assess risk more clearly and address evolving market conditions. 

A capital and liquidity stress testing framework to assess our aggregate exposure to our most significant
risks.       We conduct enterprise-wide stress tests under a range of scenarios to better understand the resources needed to support our subsidiaries and AIG Parent.   

Presentation Changes

Prior
period revenues and expenses were conformed to the current period presentation. These changes did not affect Net income attributable to AIG. The results of the
investments in life settlements, including investment income and impairment losses, were reclassified from AIG Property Casualty operations to AIG's Other Operations. Also, as a result of the interest
in AerCap to be acquired by AIG in connection with the announced agreement to sell ILFC to AerCap, ILFC operating results, which were previously presented as discontinued operations, have been
classified as continuing operations in all periods. The associated assets and liabilities of ILFC continue to be classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2013 and 2012. For further
discussion, see Notes 1, 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Strategic Outlook     

Industry Trends

Our
business is affected by industry and economic factors such as interest rates, credit and equity market conditions, catastrophic claims events, regulation, tax policy,
competition, and general economic, market and political conditions. We continued to operate under difficult market conditions in 2013, characterized by factors such as historically low interest rates,
instability in the global markets due to the negotiations over the U.S. debt ceiling, the U.S. Government shutdown and slow growth in the U.S. economy.   

Although
there was a rise in interest rates in the U.S. fixed income market during the second half of 2013, interest rates remain low relative to historical levels, which has affected our industry by
reducing investment returns. In   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
63  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

  addition,
current market conditions may not necessarily permit insurance companies to increase pricing across all our product lines.   

AIG Priorities for 2014     
  
   AIG
is focused on the following priorities for 2014:  

Emphasis on customers;   
           Growth and profitability in our core insurance businesses;   
           Enhance the yield on our investments while maintaining focus on credit quality;    
           Manage our capital more efficiently by improving our capital structure and redeploying capital to areas that promote
profitable growth;   
           Consummate the sale of our interest in ILFC;   
           Work with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the FRB) in its capacity as our principal regulator; and    
           Pursue initiatives that continue to reduce expenses and improve efficiencies to best meet the needs of our customers,
including centralizing work streams to lower-cost locations and creating a more streamlined organization.    

Outlook for Our Operating Businesses     

  The
outlook for each of our businesses and management initiatives to improve growth and performance in 2014 and over the longer term is summarized below.   

AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND OUTLOOK

Executive Overview     
  
    Growth and Business Mix      Grow higher value business to increase profitability and expand in attractive growth economies.   

   Underwriting Excellence      Enhance risk selection and pricing to earn returns commensurate with the risk assumed.   

Claims Best Practices      Improve claims practices, analytics and tools to improve customer service, increase efficiency and lower the
loss ratio.   

   Operating Expense Discipline      Apply operating expense discipline and increase efficiencies by taking full advantage of our global
footprint.   

   Capital Efficiency      Enhance capital management through initiatives to streamline our legal entity structure, optimize our
reinsurance program and improve tax efficiency.   

   Investment Strategy      Execute our investment strategy, which includes increased asset diversification and yield-enhancement
opportunities that meet our liquidity, capital, risk and return objectives.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
64  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Market Conditions and Industry Trends

We
expect that the current low interest rate environment, currency volatility, and ongoing uncertainty in global economic conditions will continue to challenge the growth of
net investment income and limit growth in some markets. Due to these conditions, coupled with overcapacity in the property casualty insurance industry, we have sought to modify terms and conditions,
grow profitable segments of the business, exit unprofitable business and develop advanced data analytics to improve profitability.   

We
have observed improving trends in certain key indicators that may offset the effect of current economic challenges. Commencing in the second quarter of 2011, we have benefitted from favorable
pricing trends, particularly in our U.S. commercial business. The property casualty insurance industry is experiencing modest growth as a result of this positive rate trend and an increase in overall
exposures in some markets. We also expect that expansion in certain growth economies will occur at a faster pace than in developed countries, although at levels lower than those previously expected
due to revised economic assumptions.   

  In
the U.S., our exposure to terrorism risk is mitigated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA) in addition to limited private reinsurance protections. TRIPRA is
set to expire on December 31,
2014. We are closely monitoring the legislative developments related to the TRIPRA renewal or expiration, and have implemented appropriate business strategies for potential legislation outcomes,
including non-renewal of the law. For additional information on TRIPRA, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Reserves and Exposures and Item 7. MD A  
Enterprise Risk Management   Insurance Operations Risks   AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks   Terrorism Risk.   

Strategic Initiatives

Growth and Business Mix

We
continue efforts to better segment our business by industry, geography and type of coverage, to enhance our decision making about risk acceptance and pricing. For
example, within workers' compensation we have observed different experience and trends based on this segmentation, which helps inform our risk appetite, pricing and loss mitigation decisions.   

  As
part of our strategy to expand our consumer operations in growth economies, on May 29, 2013, we entered into a joint venture agreement with PICC Life, a subsidiary of PICC Group, to form an
agency distribution company in China. Products under consideration to be distributed by the joint venture company include jointly developed life and retirement insurance products, existing PICC Life
products, PICC P C insurance products, AIG Property Casualty products, as well as other products aimed at meeting the needs of this developing market. We will own 24.9 percent of the joint
venture company with PICC Life holding the remaining 75.1 percent. Our participation in the joint venture will be managed by AIG Property Casualty. The joint venture is planned to commence
operations in 2014 subject to regulatory approval.   

  We
continue to explore other potential life insurance and accident and health opportunities internationally.   

Underwriting Excellence

We
continue to further enhance our risk selection process and refine technical pricing and producer management, through enhanced tools and analytics. In addition, we remain
focused on reducing exposure to capital intensive long-tail lines. We believe that accident year loss ratios will continue to improve due to these actions.   

Claims Best Practices

We
continue to reduce loss costs by realizing greater efficiencies in servicing customer claims, introducing improved claims analytics and services, developing knowledge of
the economic drivers of losses which collectively are expected to mitigate reserve development and legal costs, and improve customer insights and pricing.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
65  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Operating Expense Discipline

We
continue to make strategic investments in systems, processes and talent worldwide, which are expected to create additional value and greater efficiency in the years
ahead.   

Capital Efficiency

We
continue to execute capital management initiatives by enhancing broad-based risk tolerance guidelines for our operating units, implementing underwriting strategies to
increase return on equity by line of business and reducing exposure to businesses with inadequate pricing and increased loss trends. In addition, we remain focused on enhancing our global reinsurance
strategy to improve overall capital efficiency, but with periodic income statement volatility.   

  We
continue to streamline our legal entity structure to enhance transparency with regulators and optimize capital and tax efficiency. In 2013, we completed a series of legal entity and branch
restructuring transactions resulting in a simpler legal ownership structure with fewer ownership tiers and cross ownership. These legal entity restructuring initiatives enhanced our dividend capacity,
reduced required capital, and provided tax benefits. Additionally, the restructurings are allowing us to simplify our reinsurance arrangements which further facilitate increased capital optimization.
As of February 2014, through branch incorporations, legal entity mergers, and reinsurance changes, we established three key insurance operating units: one insurance pool in the United States with 12
direct writing entities; one pan-European insurance entity in the United Kingdom with 25 branches throughout Europe; and one Japan insurance holding company directly owning all of our operating units
in that country. Key highlights include:  

Continued integration of our Japan operations including the 2013 conversion of the AIUI Insurance Company Japan branch to
a subsidiary and a plan to effect a similar conversion of the American Home Assurance Japan Branch in 2014, subject to regulatory approval. On July 16, 2013, we announced the planned merger of
AIU Insurance Company Ltd. and Fuji, scheduled to take place in 2015 or later, subject to regulatory approvals. The merger is consistent with our growth strategy for the Japan market, and is
intended to combine the expertise and experience of these companies to meet our customers' and partners' needs and provide products and services that will target higher levels of customer satisfaction
in a cost-effective manner.  
           Simplification of the ownership structure of the Admitted and Surplus Lines Pool members, allowing for the combination of
our Admitted Lines and Surplus Lines pools, which became effective January 1, 2014. We also transferred the majority of the existing intercompany reinsurance to the pools. In addition, we
transferred the majority of the existing intercompany reinsurance held by one of our Bermuda entities to the Admitted Lines pool.    

  We
paid dividends of approximately $1.8 billion to AIG during 2013 as a result of these activities.   

  Our
overall legal entity restructuring is expected to be substantially completed in 2014 (2015 or later for Japan) subject to regulatory approvals in the relevant jurisdictions.   

  See
Segment Results   AIG Property Casualty Operations   AIG Property Casualty Results   AIG Property Casualty Net Investment Income and Net
Realized Capital Gains (Losses) and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
66  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND OUTLOOK

Executive Overview     
  
    Product Diversity and Capacity for Growth      Continue to expand our comprehensive portfolio with superior, differentiated product
solutions that meet consumer needs for financial and retirement security, using our scale and capital strength to pursue growth opportunities.   

   Integrated Distribution      Grow assets under management by leveraging our extensive distribution organization of over 300,000
financial professionals and expanding relationships with key distribution partners to effectively market our diverse product offerings across multiple channels under a more unified branding strategy.   

Investment Portfolio      Maintain a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities that largely match the duration
characteristics of liabilities with assets of comparable duration, and pursue yield-enhancement opportunities that meet our liquidity, risk and return objectives.   

   Operational Initiatives      Continue to streamline our life insurance and annuity operations and systems into a lower-cost, more agile
model that provides superior service and ease of doing business.   

Effective Risk and Capital Management      Deliver solid earnings through disciplined pricing and diversification of risk and increase
capital efficiency within our life insurance entities to enhance return on equity.   

Market Conditions and Industry Trends

Baby
boomers reaching retirement age expect to live longer in retirement and place less reliance on traditional pensions and government retirement benefits than previous
generations. These demographic trends, combined with strong equity markets and low volatility, provide a favorable environment for sales of individual variable annuities, and have contributed to
growth in separate account assets under management in both our Retirement Income Solutions and Group Retirement product lines. Opportunities to continue growing our position in the individual variable
annuities market are being provided by an increasing demographic of Americans approaching retirement and seeking guaranteed income features, combined with changes in the competitive landscape.   

The
interest rate environment has a significant impact on the life and annuity industry. Low long-term interest rates put pressure on long-term investment returns, negatively affect sales of interest
rate sensitive products such as fixed annuities, and reduce future profits on certain existing fixed rate products. Low interest rates may also affect future investment margins, and may affect the
recoverability and amortization rate of DAC assets in our variable annuity, fixed annuity and universal life businesses. While long-term interest rates remain low relative to historical levels, the
increase in rates since the second half of 2013 has caused demand for fixed annuities products to improve, and continued stable or modestly rising interest rates provide favorable market conditions
for our fixed annuity sales and future profitability.   

  We
will continue to actively manage renewal crediting rates and use a disciplined approach to pricing new sales of interest rate sensitive products, including minimum rate guarantees. Also, as market
conditions change, we manage our asset and liability interest rate exposures and strategic asset allocation to emphasize lower or higher durations in our investment portfolio.   

  The
life insurance marketplace continues to be highly competitive and driven by price and service, with key players in this market acquiring an increasing market share. Industry sales of universal
life have slowed, particularly sales of guaranteed universal life products, which was expected following the implementation of regulatory changes that increased minimum reserving requirements for
these guaranteed products.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
67  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Strategic Initiatives

Product Diversity and Capacity for Growth

We
expect to continue to expand our comprehensive portfolio of products by developing superior, differentiated product solutions that meet consumer needs for financial and
retirement security while incorporating volatility risk controls. Our scale and capital base provide competitive advantages that enable us to pursue market opportunities for growth.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement has been able to meet the demand for guaranteed products and grow sales while managing risk. We offer competitive products with strong de-risking features, such as volatility
control funds, rider fees indexed to a market volatility index and required minimum allocations to fixed accounts, and we employ a dynamic risk hedging program. In addition to individual variable
annuities, our Retirement Income Solutions product line is expanding our offerings of index annuities, including those with guarantee features, to provide additional solutions for consumers
approaching retirement.   

  Sales
of our fixed annuities are expected to benefit in 2014 from anticipated increasing interest rates and steepening of the yield curve, as these market conditions make fixed annuity products more
attractive compared to alternatives such as bank deposits. Our Fixed Annuities product line is also introducing new delayed-income annuities, products that are experiencing significant growth in the
marketplace as they provide both flexibility and a guaranteed income stream to consumers approaching retirement.   

  Our
Institutional Markets product line is expected to continue contributing to growth in assets under management with stable value wraps and utilizing a disciplined approach to growth and
diversification of our business by pursuing select opportunities in areas such as the terminal funding and pension buyout business.   

In
the highly competitive life insurance marketplace, we are continuing to execute our strategy of leveraging our scale advantage, utilizing our expertise in risk selection and disciplined approach to
pricing new business, and creating differentiated product offerings based on consumer-focused research.   

Integrated Distribution Strategy

We
intend to expand relationships with key distribution partners to fully realize the benefits of our diverse product offerings across multiple channels, and implement a
more uniform branding strategy. Our focus on ease of doing business for consumers and producers includes enhancements to our Group Retirement platform and services and other initiatives to improve the
recruitment, training and productivity of our affiliated distribution partners, which are expected to enhance sales and service through these channels.   

Investment Portfolio

Our
investment strategy for AIG Life and Retirement is to maximize net investment income and portfolio value, subject to liquidity requirements, capital constraints,
diversification requirements, asset-liability matching and available investment opportunities. Our objective is to maintain a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities having
weighted average durations that are matched to the duration and cash flow profile of our liabilities, to the extent practicable.   

Operational Initiatives

We
are continuing to invest in initiatives to enable a simpler and more agile low-cost operating model that provides superior service and will position our operating
platforms to accommodate significant future growth. For example, our One Life initiative is focused on leveraging our most efficient systems environments and increased automation of our underwriting
processes.   

Effective Risk and Capital Management

We
intend to continue to enhance profitability and capital efficiency within our insurance entities through disciplined pricing and effective management of risk. Volatility
risk controls within our product design and our comprehensive dynamic hedging program are critical tools for managing volatility for products where we have significant exposure to   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
68  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

  equity
market volatility and changes in interest rates. Additionally, our scale and the breadth of our product offerings provide diversification of risk across our product portfolio.   

  See
Results of Operations   Segment Results   AIG Life and Retirement Results for additional information.   

OTHER OPERATIONS STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND OUTLOOK

Mortgage Guaranty (UGC)

Executive Overview     
  
     Risk Selection      Ensure the high quality of our new business through disciplined underwriting and our multi-variant risk-based pricing model.   

    Innovation      Develop and enhance products, technology, and processes while addressing the needs of stakeholders in the mortgage industry.   

Ease of Use      Reduce complexity in the mortgage insurance process.   

    Expense Management      Streamline our processes through the use of technology and shared services.   

Market Conditions and Industry Trends

Interest
rate increases in late 2013 reduced the refinancing activity that drove much of the increased volume in the mortgage loan industry during the year. As a result, UGC
anticipates a decrease in new insurance written during 2014 compared to 2013. However, the majority of UGC's new business written during 2013 was originated from home purchases as opposed to
refinancing, and we expect the growth in home purchase lending in 2014 to partially offset the decline in refinancing activity. UGC believes the increase in home purchases will be driven by increased
buyer confidence arising from home price appreciation and interest rates remaining at low levels relative to historical levels.   

  Although
increasing interest rates may have an unfavorable impact on new mortgage loan volumes, UGC expects that increasing interest rates will have a favorable impact on the persistency of business
written over the last several quarters since refinancing of mortgage loans would be unattractive to homeowners who originated mortgages at the historically low interest rates prevalent during the last
several periods. We expect that this higher persistency will continue to benefit our results throughout 2014 and into 2015.   

  UGC
expects cure rates to improve as a result of home value appreciation since such appreciation will encourage homeowners with delinquent mortgages to sell and purchase another home, or to refinance
their existing mortgages. We believe the combination of higher persistency and improving cure rates, partially offset by changes in new mortgage loan volumes, will continue to strengthen UGC's
operating results throughout 2014.   

Strategic Initiatives

Risk Selection

During
2014, UGC expects to continue to be a leading provider of mortgage insurance and will differentiate itself from its competitors by providing superior products to our
customers and utilizing its proprietary risk-based pricing strategy. This pricing strategy provides UGC's customers with mortgage insurance products that are priced commensurate with the underwriting
risk, which we believe will result in an appropriately priced, high-quality book of business. UGC plans to continue to execute this strategy in 2014. The business generated under this strategy, which
was initiated during 2009, accounts for approximately 53 percent of net premiums earned in 2013.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
69  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    

Global Capital Markets

AIG
Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG and its subsidiaries and third parties to provide hedging services for AIG entities. The derivative portfolio of
AIG Markets consists primarily of interest rate and currency derivatives.   

  The
remaining derivatives portfolio of AIGFP consists primarily of hedges of the assets and liabilities of the DIB and a portion of the legacy hedges for AIG and its subsidiaries. AIGFP's derivative
portfolio consists primarily of interest rate, currency, credit, commodity and equity derivatives. Additionally, AIGFP has a credit default swap portfolio that is being managed for economic benefit
and with limited risk. The AIGFP portfolio continues to be wound down and is managed consistent with our risk management objectives. Although the portfolio may experience periodic fair value
volatility, it consists predominantly of transactions that we believe are of low complexity, low risk or currently not economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis.   

Direct Investment Book

The
DIB consists of a portfolio of assets and liabilities held directly by AIG Parent in the MIP and certain non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP. The DIB
portfolio is being wound down and is managed with the objective of ensuring that at all times it maintains the liquidity we believe is necessary to meet all of its liabilities as they come due, even
under stress scenarios, and to maximize returns consistent with our risk management objectives.   

  The
DIB's assets consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, U.S. government and government sponsored entities and mortgage and asset backed
securities. The value of these assets is impacted by macro-economic trends in U.S. and core European markets, including corporate credit spreads, commercial and residential real estate markets, and to
a lesser extent, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, among other factors. The majority of these assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized through earnings. The
DIB's liabilities consist primarily of notes and other borrowings supported by assets as well as other short-term financing obligations. The DIB has both liabilities that are held at cost and
liabilities that are held at fair value. The liabilities held at fair value vary in price based on changes in AIG's credit spreads with changes in fair value reflected in earnings. Changes in the
fundamental drivers of the fair value of DIB assets and liabilities will create earnings volatility for the DIB on a period-to-period comparative basis.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
70  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Results of Operations   

  The
following section provides a comparative discussion of our Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2013. Factors that relate primarily to a
specific business segment are discussed in more detail within that business segment discussion. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates that affect the Results of Operations, see the
Critical Accounting Estimates section of this MD A.   

   The following table presents our consolidated results of operations:     

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
71  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Consolidated Comparison for 2013 and 2012     

  Income
from continuing operations before income tax expense was $9.4 billion in 2013 compared to $2.9 billion in 2012, and reflected the following:   

pre-tax income from insurance
operations of $5.1 billion, $6.5 billion and $213 million from AIG Property Casualty, AIG Life and Retirement and Mortgage Guaranty in 2013, respectively, compared to pre-tax income of $2.0 billion, $3.8 billion and
$15 million for these operations in 2012. Net investment income, excluding gains recognized in 2012 from our previous investments in ML II, ML III and AIA, improved in 2013 compared to 2012 due to higher returns on alternative
investments, primarily due to the performance of equity markets. In addition, 2013 includes income from legal settlements related to the financial crisis of $1.0 billion. Included in 2012 pre-tax income for AIG Property Casualty were catastrophe
losses of $2.7 billion, largely arising from Storm Sandy and severe losses of $326 million. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information;                  loss on extinguishment of debt of $651 million in 2013 resulting from
redemptions and repurchases of, and cash tender offers for, certain debt securities; and                   net investment income in 2012 reflected an increase in fair value of AIG's interests in AIA ordinary shares and ML III of $2.1 billion and $2.9 billion,
respectively.  
     
          Continued
Improvement in 
Insurance Operations    
                          For the fourth consecutive
year we posted a full year profit.                   Our total AIG Property Casualty accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, improved each year during the past four years.            
      We enhanced spread income and actively managed through the low interest rate environment.                   Our investment portfolio performance, excluding gains recognized in 2012 from
our previous investments in ML II, ML III and AIA, improved due to higher returns on alternative investments, driven primarily by equity market gains. 

For the year ended December 31, 2013, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 3.8 percent. The effective tax rate on
income from continuing operations differs from the statutory tax rate of 35 percent primarily due to tax benefits of $2.8 billion related to a decrease in AIG Life and Retirement's
capital loss carryforward valuation allowance, $396 million related to a decrease in certain other valuation allowances associated with foreign jurisdictions and $298 million associated
with tax exempt interest income. These items were partially offset by charges of $632 million related to uncertain tax positions.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2012, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was (27.9) percent. The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations differs from
the statutory tax rate of 35 percent primarily due to decreases in AIG Life and Retirement's capital loss carryforward valuation allowance of $1.9 billion related to the actual and
projected gains from AIG Life and Retirement's available-for-sale securities, and tax effects associated with tax exempt interest income of $302 million. These items were partially offset by
changes in uncertain tax positions of $446 million.   

Consolidated Comparison for 2012 and 2011     

  Income
from continuing operations before income tax expense was $2.9 billion in 2012 compared to $(0.9) billion in 2011 and reflected the
following:  

pre-tax income from insurance operations of $2.0 billion, $3.8 billion and $15 million from AIG
Property Casualty, AIG Life and Retirement and Mortgage Guaranty in 2012, respectively, compared to pre-tax income (loss) of $2.1 billion, $3.0 billion and $(77) million for these
operations in 2011. Included in 2012 pre-tax income for AIG Property Casualty were catastrophe losses of $2.7 billion, largely arising from Storm Sandy, and severe losses of
$326 million. Included in 2011 pre-tax income for AIG Property Casualty were catastrophe losses of $3.3 billion, largely arising from Hurricane Irene, U.S. tornadoes and the Great Tohoku
Earthquake   Tsunami in Japan (the Tohoku Catastrophe) and severe losses of $296 million. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information;    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
72  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

increases in fair value of AIG's interest in AIA ordinary shares of $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2012
and 2011, respectively. The increase in fair value in 2012 included a gain on sale of AIA ordinary shares of approximately $0.8 billion;   
           an increase in fair value of AIG's interest in ML III of $2.9 billion in 2012, compared to a decrease in
fair value of $646 million in 2011;   
           an increase in estimated litigation liability of approximately $783 million for 2012 based on developments in
several actions;   
           litigation settlement income of $210 million in 2012 from settlements with three financial institutions who
participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS from which AIG and its subsidiaries suffered losses either directly on their own account or in connection with their participation in AIG's
securities lending program; and   
           a $3.3 billion net loss in 2011, primarily consisting of the accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid
commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the credit facility provided by the FRBNY (the FRBNY Credit Facility) in 2011. This was partially offset by a $484 million gain on
extinguishment of debt due to the exchange of subordinated debt.    

  For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was not meaningful, due to the significant effect of releasing approximately $18.4 billion
of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Other factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory rate included tax benefits of $454 million associated with tax exempt interest
income, $386 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, and $224 million related to our investment in subsidiaries and partnerships.   

The following table presents a reconciliation of net income attributable to AIG to after-tax operating income (loss) attributable to AIG:   

After-tax operating income attributable to AIG increased in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to increases in income from insurance operations, discussed
above, lower income tax expense and noncontrolling interests, partially offset by fair value gains on AIG's previously held interests in AIA ordinary shares, ML II, and ML III.   

  After-tax
operating income attributable to AIG increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to increases in income from insurance operations and in the fair value gains on AIG's interests in AIA
ordinary shares and AIG's interest in ML III, discussed above. This was partially offset by an increase in income tax expense in 2012 compared to an income tax benefit in 2011.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2013, the effective tax rate on pre-tax operating income was 28.9 percent. The significant factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory
rate included tax benefits resulting from tax exempt interest income and other permanent tax items, and the impact of discrete tax benefits.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
73  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

For
the year ended December 31, 2012, the effective tax rate on pre-tax operating income was 31.6 percent. The significant factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory
rate was primarily due to tax exempt interest income and other permanent tax items.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax operating income was (9.6) percent. The significant factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory rate
included tax benefits resulting from tax exempt interest income, tax benefits associated with noncontrolling interests, and the impact of discrete tax benefits.      

Segment Results     

  We
report the results of our operations through two reportable segments: AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement. The Other Operations category consists of businesses and items not allocated
to our reportable segments.   

   The following table summarizes the operations of each reportable segment and Other Operations. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
74  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

TOTAL REVENUES     

(in millions)   

A discussion of significant items affecting pre-tax segment income follows. Factors that affect pre-tax operating income for a specific business segment are discussed in the
detailed business segment analysis.   

Pre-tax Income Comparison for 2013 and 2012     

   AIG Property Casualty      Pre-tax income increased in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily as a result of improved underwriting results.
The improved underwriting results are attributable to lower catastrophe losses, an improvement in current year losses, reflecting the continued shift to higher value business, enhanced risk selection
and improved pricing. The improvement in pre-tax income also reflected higher net investment income in 2013 compared to 2012 due to the strong performance of alternative investments and income
associated with the PICC P C shares that are accounted for under the fair value option.   

   AIG Life and Retirement      Pre-tax income increased in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to increased fee income from growth in our
variable annuity account value and continued active spread management related to our interest rate sensitive businesses, income from legal settlements and alternative investments. These increases were
partially offset by the absence of fair value gains recognized in 2012 from our investment in ML II, which was liquidated in March 2012. Net realized capital gains increased in 2013
compared to 2012, primarily due to gains in connection with our program to utilize capital loss carryforwards, which were partially offset by the triggering of additional loss recognition reserves,
reflected in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred, from the subsequent reinvestment of the proceeds from these sales at lower yields.   

   Other Operations      Other Operations reported a decline in pre-tax loss in 2013 compared to 2012. The pre-tax loss in 2013 included
impairment on investments in life settlements, a loss on extinguishment of debt resulting from the redemptions and repurchases of, and cash tender offers, for certain debt securities, and severance
expense, partially   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
75  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

offset
by an increase in pre-tax income from GCM and Mortgage Guaranty. The pre-tax income in 2012 included fair value gains from our previously held interests in AIA ordinary shares and
ML III.   

  Mortgage
Guaranty's pre-tax operating income increased in 2013 compared to 2012 due to higher net premiums earned in the first-lien business, a decline in newly reported delinquencies and improving
cure rates.   

  The
net loss on divested businesses in 2012 includes a loss associated with the announced sale of ILFC.   

Pre-tax Income Comparison for 2012 and 2011     

   AIG Property Casualty      Pre-tax income decreased slightly in 2012 compared to 2011 due to higher acquisition costs as a result of the
change in business mix from Commercial Insurance to Consumer Insurance and higher general operating expenses and lower net realized capital gains. Partially offsetting the decrease were lower
underwriting losses due to the impact of lower catastrophe losses, underwriting improvements related to rate increases and enhanced risk selection, higher net investment income due to asset
diversification by reducing the concentration in tax-exempt municipal instruments and increasing investments in private placement debt and structured securities.   

   AIG Life and Retirement      Pre-tax income increased in 2012 compared to 2011, principally due to efforts to actively manage net
investment spreads. Results benefited from higher net investment income, lower interest credited, lower reserves for death claims and the impact of more favorable separate account performance on DAC
amortization and policyholder benefit reserves. These items were partially offset by significant proceeds from a legal settlement in 2011, higher mortality costs and an increase in GIC reserves.   

   Other Operations      Other Operations recorded a decline in pre-tax loss in 2012 compared to 2011 due to fair value and realized gains
in our interest in AIA ordinary shares, and in our interest in ML III, partially offset by an increase in estimated litigation liability, and a loss on extinguishment of debt of
$3.3 billion in 2011 in connection with the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

  Mortgage
Guaranty recorded a pre-tax operating income in 2012 compared to a pre-tax operating loss in 2011 due to a decrease in claims and claims adjustment expense.   

  The
net loss on divested businesses in 2012 includes a loss associated with the announced sale of ILFC.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
76  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The following table presents reconciliations of pre-tax income (loss) to pre-tax operating income (loss) by reportable segment and after-tax operating income attributable to
AIG, which are non-GAAP measures. See Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional information.   

*     Reflects
income from settlements with financial institutions that participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS from which AIG realized losses during the financial crisis.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
77  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
78  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY

AIG
Property Casualty presents its financial information in two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance   as
well as an Other category.   

  We
are developing new value-based metrics that provide management with enhanced measures to evaluate our profitability, such as a risk-adjusted profitability model. Along with underwriting results,
this risk-adjusted profitability model incorporates elements of capital allocations, costs of capital and net investment income. We believe that such performance measures will allow us to better
assess the true economic returns of our business.   

AIG Property Casualty 2013 Highlights

Pre-tax Operating Income    increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, due to lower catastrophe losses, improvements in
underwriting results and strong investment performance. AIG Property Casualty continued to shift its mix of business to higher value products and regions, while benefiting from positive rate trends.   

   Net premiums written    decreased slightly in 2013, compared to the prior year, due to the effect of foreign exchange as a result of the strengthening of
the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, which primarily impacted the Consumer Insurance businesses. This decrease was largely offset by an increase in the Commercial Insurance net premiums written
due to rate increases, improved retention, growth in new business and changes in our reinsurance program. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange, net premiums written increased by approximately
4 percent compared to the prior year.   

   The loss ratio    improved by 7.2 points in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to positive pricing, continued improvement from our change in
business mix and lower catastrophe losses. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in severe losses and adverse prior year development, which added 0.8 points and 0.1 point to the loss
ratio, respectively, compared to the prior year. Additionally, an increase in discount for certain workers' compensation reserves improved the loss ratio by 1.0 points compared to the prior year.   

   The acquisition ratio    decreased by 0.2 points in 2013, compared to the prior year. Decreases in the Commercial Insurance acquisition ratio, related to
changes in business mix and reinsurance structures, partially offset by increased commission rates in Consumer Insurance, driven by increases in growth targeted lines of business.   

   The general operating expense ratio    increased by 0.2 points in 2013, compared to the prior year. An increase in the cost of our employee incentive plans
was partially offset by the decrease in bad debt expense and reduced costs for strategic initiatives. In addition, for 2013, the lower net premiums earned base contributed to the increase, primarily
due to the fixed expense base that generally does not vary with production.   

Net investment income    increased by 10 percent in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to increases in alternative investment returns
and income associated with the PICC P C shares that are accounted for under the fair value option.   

  We
provided $4.3 billion of dividends to AIG Parent during the year ended December 31, 2013, including non-cash dividends of $222 million (including dividends of
$1.8 billion related to restructuring activities).   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
79  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty Results

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty results (*) :     

*     Certain
2013 severance expenses totaling $263 million for AIG Property Casualty are included in AIG's Other Operations. As these expenses are related to an overall AIG initiative
to centralize work streams into lower cost locations, and create a more streamlined organization, they have not been allocated to the AIG Property Casualty segment.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
80  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

*     The operations reported as part of Other do not have meaningful levels of Net premiums written.   

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

AIG Property Casualty Results   

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, due to an improvement in underwriting results and an
increase in net investment income. The improvement in underwriting results reflected lower catastrophe losses, an improvement in current accident year losses, and an increase in reserve discount
compared to the prior year. Net investment income increased due to increases in alternative investment returns and income associated with the PICC P C shares that are accounted for under the fair
value option. The asset diversification strategies that we executed during 2012 enabled us to maintain similar yields in the portfolio despite the continued low interest rate environment in 2013.
Catastrophe losses were $787 million and $2.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The net benefit in reserve discount was $309 million and
$63 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As discussed further in the Discounting of Reserves section, we revised our estimate for discounting of loss
reserves with the agreement of our Pennsylvania regulator. We previously applied different Pennsylvania-prescribed discounting practices and factors to our primary and excess workers' compensation
reserves in Commercial Insurance and Other. Our revised estimate provides a more consistent approach that better aligns our discount rate with our future expected risk-adjusted yield on the underlying
assets and payout patterns.   

   Acquisition expenses    decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the timing of certain guaranty funds and other assessments, and the
change in reinsurance structures in Commercial Insurance, which were partially offset by an increase in acquisition expenses in Consumer Insurance due to the change in business mix.   

General operating expenses    decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, due to decreases in bad debt expense and reduced costs for strategic
initiatives. Bad debt expense decreased by $149 million from $134 million in the prior year. The decrease in bad debt expense was primarily due to reductions in prior year reserves, as
collections
exceeded the originally estimated recoveries. Strategic initiatives which include infrastructure project expenses and those severance charges borne by AIG Property Casualty, decreased by
$158 million from $455 million in the prior year. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the cost of our employee incentive plans of $247 million. The increase in
the cost of our employee incentive plans was primarily due to the alignment of employee performance with the overall performance of the organization, including our stock performance, and accelerated
vesting provisions for retirement-eligible individuals in the 2013 share-based plan.   

Commercial Insurance Results   

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in catastrophe losses to
$710 million from $2.3 billion in the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in allocated net investment income as a result of a decrease in the risk-free rates used in our
investment income allocation model. The lower underwriting loss in 2013 compared to the prior year was primarily due to lower catastrophe losses, rate increases,   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
81  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

  and
enhanced risk selection and loss mitigation activities. As discussed further in the Discounting of Reserves section, our 2013 results included a $322 million charge primarily for the change
in reserve discount compared to a $100 million benefit in 2012 from an increase in reserve discount. Prior year adverse development increased by $58 million compared to 2012. The current
accident year losses for 2013 included severe losses of $569 million compared to the severe losses of $293 million incurred in the prior year. This increase was driven largely by a large
property loss and related contingent business interruption claims, totaling $131 million and by an increased frequency of severe losses compared to prior periods. Net adverse development,
including related premium adjustments was $294 million in 2013, which includes $149 million of adverse development related to Storm Sandy, compared to $236 million in the prior
year. The adverse development related to Storm Sandy resulted from higher severities on a small number of existing large and complex commercial claims. These increased severities were driven by a
number of factors, including the extensive damage caused to properties in the downtown New York metropolitan area.   

   Acquisition expenses    decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, due to changes in reinsurance, the timing of guaranty funds and other assessments,
as well as change in business mix.   

   General operating expenses    increased slightly in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the increase in employee incentive plan expense, as
previously discussed, and strategic initiatives, which was partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense.   

Consumer Insurance Results   

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to a lower underwriting loss, which is
partially offset by a decrease in allocated net investment income. Underwriting results improved primarily due to lower catastrophe losses and higher net favorable development, coupled with lower
acquisition and general operating expenses. Allocated net investment income decreased due to a decrease in the risk-free rates used in our investment income allocation model. Catastrophe losses in
2013 were $77 million, compared to $382 million during the prior year. Net favorable development was $155 million in 2013, compared to $20 million in the prior year. The
year ended December 31, 2013 included approximately $41 million of favorable development from Storm Sandy driven primarily by the reduction of reserves for excess flood policies
indicated from completed property inspections and lower than expected severity on certain other policy claims.   

   Acquisition expenses    decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the change in business mix which was partially offset by costs in
growth-targeted lines of business. Direct marketing expenses, excluding commissions, for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $440 million, compared to $452 million in the prior
year. These expenses, while not deferrable, are expected to generate business that has an average expected overall persistency of approximately five years and, in Japan, approximately nine years.
Excluding the effect of foreign exchange, direct marketing expenses increased by approximately $46 million in 2013 compared to the prior year.   

   General operating expenses    decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to reduced costs for strategic initiatives, which were partially
offset by the increase in employee incentive plan expense previously discussed and the strategic expansion into growth economy nations.   

Other Results     

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to an increase
in net investment income and a decrease in underwriting loss. Net investment income increased due to improved overall investment performance and a reduced allocation to Commercial Insurance and
Consumer Insurance, resulting from the use of lower risk-free rates in our investment income allocation model. As discussed further in the Discounting of Reserves section, our 2013 results include a
$649 million benefit, primarily related to a revision in state prescribed discounting of excess workers' compensation loss reserves that are reported in Other. Net adverse development was
$326 million in 2013, compared to $229 million in 2012.   

   General operating expenses    decreased as a result of lower expenses related to strategic initiatives.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

AIG Property Casualty Results   

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in catastrophe losses to
$2.7 billion from $3.3 billion in the prior year. In addition, net investment income increased due to asset   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
82  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

  diversification,
from concentration in tax-exempt municipal instruments into investments in private placement debt and structured securities. Net prior year adverse development, including premium
adjustments, was $445 million for 2012 compared to $39 million for 2011.   

   Acquisition expenses    increased due to the change in business mix to higher value lines of business and the change in business mix from Commercial
Insurance to Consumer Insurance.   

   General operating expenses    increased due to the continued investment in strategic initiatives and human resources, as a result of AIG's continued
investment in its employees. For the year ended December 31, 2012, investments in strategic initiatives totaled approximately $455 million, representing an increase of approximately
$233 million over the prior year. In addition, bad debt expense increased by approximately $143 million from the prior year.   

Commercial Insurance Results   

   Pre-tax operating income    decreased in 2012, compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in allocated net
investment income reflecting a decrease in the risk-free rate. Underwriting losses increased slightly compared to the prior year, reflecting higher acquisition and general operating expenses, and
higher adverse prior year development, partially offset by lower catastrophe and improved current accident year losses, the effect of rate increases and enhanced risk selection, and an increase in
reserve discount of $100 million.   

   Acquisition expenses    increased primarily as a result of higher commission expense due to the restructuring of the U.S. Casualty, primarily
loss-sensitive business, as we move towards higher value lines of business.   

   General operating expenses    increased due to an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $143 million and investments in strategic
initiatives.   

Consumer Insurance Results   

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, reflecting a reduction in underwriting loss as well
as an increase in allocated net investment income resulting primarily from the strategic group benefits partnership with AIG Life and Retirement. Underwriting results improved due to the combination
of lower catastrophe losses, favorable loss reserve development, the effect of rate increases, enhanced risk selection and portfolio management. These improvements were offset in part by higher
acquisition and general operating expenses.   

   Acquisition expenses    increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, primarily due to an increase in warranty profit sharing arrangements, increased
investment in direct marketing, and a decrease of approximately $49 million in the benefit from the amortization of VOBA liabilities recognized at the time of the Fuji acquisition.   

General operating expenses    increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, due to investments in infrastructure and strategic expansion in growth economy
nations.   

Other Results     

  We continued to invest in a number of strategic initiatives during 2012, including the implementation of global finance and information systems,
preparation for Solvency II compliance, readiness for regulation by the FRB, legal entity restructuring, and underwriting and claims improvement initiatives. We also continued to streamline our
finance, policy and claims administration and human resources operations. The costs of these initiatives, which are not specific to either Commercial Insurance or Consumer Insurance, are reported as
part of the Other category. For the year ended December 31, 2012, these costs totaled $391 million, representing an increase of approximately $195 million over the prior year.   

  See
AIG Property Casualty Underwriting Ratios below for further information on prior year development.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
83  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty Net Premiums Written

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty net premiums written by major line of business:   

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  During 2013, Commercial Insurance continued to focus on the execution of its strategic objectives.   

   Casualty    net premiums written decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the execution of our strategy to enhance risk selection,
particularly in the Americas and EMEA, as well as to increase specific reinsurance purchases to better manage our exposures. Changes in reinsurance strategy decreased net premiums written by
approximately $185 million in 2013, compared to the prior year. In line with our strategy, Casualty net premiums written decreased 17.1 percent since 2011 due to the capital intensive
nature of the long-tail Casualty book of business. We implemented rate increases in retained business, especially in the U.S., that partially offset these premium decreases.   

   Property    net premiums written increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to growth in new business across all regions, favorable
retention in renewal businesses and increases in coverage limits and changes to our per-risk reinsurance program to retain more favorable risks, while continuing to manage aggregate exposure.
Catastrophe-exposed businesses in the Americas also benefitted from rate increases.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
84  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

The
increase in net premiums written was partially offset by the effect of catastrophe bond transactions which provide coverage for several years with ceded written premium recognized at the inception
of the transaction. In 2013, we entered into two multi-year catastrophe bond transactions, which will provide $525 million of indemnity protection, in the aggregate, against U.S., Caribbean and
Gulf of Mexico named storms, and U.S. and Canadian earthquakes through the end of 2018. These transactions reduced net premiums written in 2013 by $140 million. Our previous catastrophe bond
issuance occurred in the fourth quarter of 2011.   

   Specialty    net premiums written increased in 2013 compared to the prior year, primarily due to rate increases in environmental business, small-and
medium-sized enterprise markets in the Americas region, new business growth in EMEA, as well as the restructuring of our reinsurance program to retain more favorable risks while continuing to manage
aggregate exposure, which increased net premiums written by $144 million, compared to the prior year.   

   Financial lines    net premiums written increased in 2013 compared to the prior year, reflecting growth in new business related to targeted growth
products, particularly in the EMEA region as well as an improved rate environment globally. Global professional indemnity net premiums written increased by $86 million in 2013, due to improved
rates, strong new business growth and the restructuring of our reinsurance program, as part of our decision to retain more favorable risks while continuing to manage aggregate exposure.   

See
Part I. Item 1 Business   Reinsurance Activities for further discussion on catastrophe bond transactions.   

Consumer Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  Consumer Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange as the U.S. dollar strengthened
against the Japanese yen. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, net premiums written increased compared to the prior year as the business continued to build momentum through multiple distribution
channels and continued focus on direct marketing. In 2013, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, net premiums written generated by direct marketing increased by approximately 5.1 percent
compared to the prior year, and accounted for approximately 16.4 percent of Consumer Insurance net premiums written.   

   A H    net premiums written, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, increased slightly compared to the prior year, primarily due to our focus on the
growth of Fuji Life products, direct marketing, individual A H in Asia Pacific, and travel business which continued to increase in most geographies across the globe.   

   Personal lines    net premiums written, excluding the effects of foreign exchange, increased in 2013 compared to the prior year. The increases were driven
by growth in U.S. private client group and warranty business, automobile products and the continued execution of our strategic initiative to grow higher value lines of business in non-automobile
products. In addition, the impact of the timing of recognizing the excess of loss ceded premiums written in the second quarter and of the catastrophe bond issuances reduced net premiums written by
approximately $58 million compared to the prior year.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  In 2012, Commercial Insurance focused on the execution of the previously announced strategic objectives. The overall decrease in Casualty was partially offset by increases
in all the other lines of business.   

   Casualty    net premiums written decreased in 2012, compared to the prior year, as planned, primarily due to the execution of our strategy to improve loss
ratios. Our enhanced risk selection process, and adherence to pricing targets resulted in the non-renewal of approximately $800 million of net premiums written, primarily within the workers'
compensation business in the Americas, and within the Primary Casualty business in EMEA. In addition, the restructuring of the loss-sensitive programs decreased Casualty net premiums written by
approximately $260 million in 2012. The additional premiums associated with prior year development in the loss-sensitive business also decreased by approximately $120 million. We also
entered into a quota share reinsurance treaty in the U.S. for the Excess Casualty business that decreased net premiums written by approximately $60 million. We implemented rate increases in
retained business, especially in the U.S., that partially offset the premium decreases noted above.   

   Property    net premiums written increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, due to rate increases, primarily in the U.S., reduced catastrophe bond
purchases in 2012, and the restructuring of the per-risk reinsurance program as part   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
85  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

of
our decision to retain more favorable risks while continuing to manage aggregate exposure. Catastrophe exposed business retained in the Americas and Asia Pacific region also benefitted from rate
increases.   

  During
2011, as part of the reinsurance strategy discussed above, we secured a three-year catastrophe bond with an industry index, first occurrence trigger, providing for $575 million in
protection for U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes. The bond transaction reduced net premiums written by approximately $201 million in 2011. There were no catastrophe bond purchases in 2012.   

   Specialty    net premiums written increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, due to the restructuring of the aerospace reinsurance program to retain
more favorable risks while continuing to manage aggregate exposure. This increase was slightly offset by our strategic initiatives related to improved risk selection, particularly within products
provided to small and medium sized enterprises in the Americas and EMEA regions. We continue to shift our business mix towards higher value lines, particularly in aerospace.   

   Financial lines    net premiums written increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, reflecting strong business growth in all regions, despite targeted
decreases where the business did not meet our risk selection and internal
performance criteria. Financial lines net premiums written for year ended December 31, 2011 benefited from a multi-year Errors and Omissions policy in the Americas that produced net premiums
written of $148 million.   

Consumer Insurance Net Premiums Written   

  The Consumer Insurance business continued to grow its net premiums written and build momentum through its multiple distribution channels and continuing focus on direct
marketing. Consumer Insurance is well-diversified across the major lines of business and has global strategies that are executed across its regions to enhance customer relationships and business
performance. Consumer Insurance currently has direct marketing operations in over 50 countries, and we continued to emphasize the growth of this channel, which for the year ended December 31,
2012, accounted for approximately 15 percent of our overall net premiums written.   

   A H    net premiums written increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, due to the growth of group personal accident business in the Americas and Asia
Pacific, strong growth of new business sales in Fuji Life, travel insurance business, direct marketing programs in Japan and other Asia Pacific nations and growth in individual personal accident in
other Asia Pacific nations. This was partially offset by the continuing strategies to reposition U.S. direct marketing operations, as well as pricing and underwriting actions in Europe.   

   Personal lines    net premiums written increased in 2012, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the execution of our strategic initiative to grow
higher value lines of business in non-automobile products and rate increases in Japan automobile products. Growth in non-automobile net premiums written outpaced growth in automobile net premiums
written, increasing its proportion to total net premiums written, due to our focus on diversifying the global product mix.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
86  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty Net Premiums Written by Region

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty's net premiums written by region:     

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
87  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty's business is transacted in most major foreign currencies. The following table presents the average of the quarterly weighted average
exchange rates of the currencies that have the most significant impact to our businesses:   

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

   The Americas    net premiums written increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the rate increases in Commercial Insurance and
continued growth in the personal property and private client group and rate actions for the warranty retail program in Consumer Insurance. This was partially offset by decreases in casualty businesses
reflecting the execution of our strategy to enhance risk selection and the effect of the timing of the catastrophe bond issuances.   

   Asia Pacific    net premiums written decreased in 2013, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against
the Japanese yen. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange, net premiums written
increased primarily due to growth in Consumer Insurance of Fuji Life products and direct marketing business in Japan. The expansion of business in Asia Pacific countries outside of Japan also
continued supported by growth in individual personal accident insurance, direct marketing and personal lines products. Commercial Insurance net premiums written increased in the Asia Pacific region
primarily due to organic growth and rate increases in Property, Specialty, and Casualty. In addition, our decision to retain more favorable risks in Property and Financial lines increased net premiums
written during 2013.   

   EMEA    net premiums written increased in 2013, compared to the prior year, due to Commercial Insurance new business growth, particularly in
Property and Financial lines, a change in reinsurance strategies to retain more favorable risks in those lines, and rate improvements on retained business, as well as growth in all lines of Consumer
Insurance.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

   The Americas    net premiums written decreased primarily due to the restructuring of the Commercial Insurance Casualty book of business primarily in
workers' compensation and loss-sensitive business, slightly offset by rate increases. These decreases were partially offset by continued growth in Consumer Insurance, which was primarily attributable
to increases to group accident, personal property, and private client group and warranty lines. Additional premium recognized on the loss-sensitive book of business was $54 million for the year
ended December 31, 2012 compared to additional premium of $172 million in the prior year.   

   Asia Pacific    net premiums written increased in 2012 primarily due to an increase in Consumer Insurance reflecting growth of personal property
business, group personal accident insurance, and direct marketing business in Japan. The expansion in Asia Pacific countries outside Japan also continued in 2012, supported by growth in individual
personal accident insurance, direct marketing and personal lines products. Commercial Insurance increased in the region primarily due to organic growth and rate increases in Property and moderate
organic growth in Specialty and Financial lines.   

   EMEA    net premiums written decreased primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. The continued execution of underwriting discipline and the
reduction in certain casualty lines that did not meet internal performance targets were offset by rate strengthening initiatives on new and renewal business for Commercial Insurance. Consumer
Insurance experienced modest growth in travel, warranty, and specialty personal lines products while focused on re-building its direct marketing programs that it previously shared with American Life
Insurance Company (ALICO).   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
88  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

AIG Property Casualty Underwriting Ratios

The following tables present the AIG Property Casualty combined ratios based on GAAP data and reconciliation to the accident year combined ratio, as
adjusted:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
89  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

Given the nature of the lines of business and the expenses included in Other, we have determined that the traditional underwriting measures of loss ratio,
acquisition ratio, general operating expense ratio and combined ratio do not provide an appropriate measure of underwriting performance. Therefore, these ratios are not presented for Other.   

  See
Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense for further discussion of discounting of reserves and prior year development.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
90  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

The following tables present AIG Property Casualty accident year catastrophe losses by region and number of events:   

Catastrophes (a)      

Severe Losses (a)      

(a)  Events
shown in the above table are catastrophic insured events having a net impact in excess of $10 million each. Severe losses are defined as non-catastrophe individual first
party losses and surety losses greater than $10 million, net of related reinsurance.   

  (b)  On
October 29, 2012, Storm Sandy, one of the largest Atlantic hurricanes on record, came ashore in the U.S. When the storm made landfall, it was categorized as a tropical
cyclone, not a hurricane. Storm Sandy was the second-costliest Atlantic hurricane in history, only surpassed by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Storm Sandy caused widespread flooding and wind damage
across the mid-Atlantic states. In 2012, we recorded $2,013 million in losses related to this event.   

  (c)  On
March 11, 2011, a major earthquake occurred near the northeast coast of Honshu, Japan, triggering a tsunami in the Pacific Ocean. This disaster is referred to as the Tohoku
Catastrophe. In 2011, we recorded $1,191 million in losses related to this event.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
91  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Ratios   

  The
accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, improved by 3.6 points for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

The
improvement in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, reflects the realization of benefits from the continued execution of our multi-faceted strategy to enhance risk selection, pricing
discipline, exposure management and claims processing. Although the execution of these strategies resulted in a reduction of Casualty net premiums written in both the Americas and EMEA regions, it
also improved the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted. Severe losses represented approximately 2.8 points compared to 1.4 points in the prior year, and are included in the accident year loss ratio,
as adjusted. In 2013, one single event, totaling $131 million, accounted for approximately 0.6 points of the increase.   

  The
acquisition ratio decreased by 0.5 points in the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to a change in business mix and reinsurance structures.   

The
general operating expense ratio increased by 0.3 points in 2013, compared to the prior year. The increase in employee incentive plan expense contributed approximately
1.0 point to the increase in the general operating expense ratio. A reduction in bad debt expense in 2013 represented a decrease to the general operating ratio of approximately
0.8 points compared to the prior year.   

Consumer Insurance Ratios   

  The
accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, increased by 2.3 points for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

The
accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, increased by 1.2 points, primarily due to the effect of higher losses associated with a warranty retail program, group accident, and travel business
in the U.S. and Canada, which in the aggregate increased the loss ratio by 1.6 points. This was partially offset by improvements in automobile and personal property, as a result of rate and
underwriting actions taken in current and prior years. The higher losses associated with a warranty retail program were largely offset by a decrease in related profit sharing arrangement.   

  The
acquisition ratio increased by 0.5 points, primarily due to the combined effect of a lower net premiums earned base, change in business mix and higher costs in growth-targeted lines of
business. This was partially offset by a reduction in a profit sharing arrangement in a warranty retail program.   

The
general operating expense ratio increased by 0.6 points compared to the prior year. The general operating expense ratio increased primarily due to the increase in employee incentive
compensation expense previously discussed, partially offset by lower infrastructure project costs.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Commercial Insurance Ratios   

The accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, improved by 1.2 points in 2012.   

  The
improvement in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, in 2012, reflects the realization of benefits from the continued execution of our multi-faceted strategy to enhance risk selection,
pricing discipline, exposure management and claims processing. Although the execution of these strategies resulted in a reduction of Casualty net premiums written, it also improved the accident year
loss ratio as we remediated our primary and excess Casualty books in both the Americas and EMEA regions. Financial lines improved due to rate strengthening and restructuring and re-underwriting of
certain products. Property improved due to rate strengthening, enhanced engineering and exposure management.   

The
acquisition ratio increased by 2.0 points primarily due to our strategy of growing higher value lines, which typically incur higher acquisition costs, and the restructuring of our Casualty lines,
especially the loss-sensitive business in the U.S. In addition, ceding commissions decreased as a result of restructuring of the Property and Specialty reinsurance program as part of the strategic
decision to retain more profitable business while continuing to manage aggregate exposures.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
92  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

  The general operating expense ratio increased by 2.4 points due to increases in bad debt expense, investments in strategic initiatives and human resources,
coupled with a lower net premiums earned base. The lower net premiums earned base contributed approximately 0.2 points to the increase in the general operating expense ratio. Bad debt expense
increased by approximately $143 million, which contributed approximately 0.7 points to the general operating expense ratio increase in the year ended December 31, 2012. For the year
ended December 31, 2012, investments in strategic initiatives, commercial lines platform, our scientific group, underwriting and pricing tools totaled approximately $51 million,
representing an increase of approximately $41 million over the prior year. The remainder of the general operating expense ratio increase was primarily due to higher personnel costs, as part of
AIG's continued investment in its employees.   

Consumer Insurance Ratios   

  The accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, increased by 1.5 points for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

The
accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, in the year ended December 31, 2012 improved in both A H and Personal lines. The improvement in A H is primarily attributable to favorable
underwriting performance of individual personal accident business in Asia Pacific, targeted underwriting actions, coupled with rate increases and risk selection of group A H in the U.S. and the
overall travel business. The improvement in Personal lines is primarily attributable to improved underwriting and risk selection in the warranty line of business, price sophistication and rate
strengthening for Japan, EMEA automobile and the U.S. private client group, and targeted business mix changes that resulted in faster growth in non-automobile products than the automobile line of
business. Included in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted, for the year ended December 31, 2012, are severe losses totaling $33 million. There were no severe losses for the year
ended December 31, 2011.   

  The
acquisition ratio increased by 1.2 points primarily due to profit sharing arrangements in lines of business targeted for growth, direct marketing expenses and the reduction in VOBA benefit.
Overall direct marketing costs increased by approximately 9 percent in 2012; total direct marketing spending outside the U.S. increased by approximately 18 percent in the same period.
There was also a decrease of approximately $49 million in the benefit from the amortization of VOBA liabilities recognized at the time of the Fuji acquisition.   

The
general operating expense ratio increased by 0.9 points as a result of incurring additional expenses to grow key lines of business across a number of geographic areas and strategic expansion in
growth economy nations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, investments in strategic initiatives, including investments in an integrated consumer lines platform and information systems
infrastructure totaled approximately $44 million, representing an increase of approximately $27 million or 0.2 points over the prior year. The remainder of the increase was primarily due
to higher personnel costs, as we continue our efforts to align employee performance across the globe with our strategic goals.   

AIG Property Casualty Net Investment Income and Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

The following table presents AIG Property Casualty's net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses):   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
93  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

  We manage and account for our invested assets on a legal entity basis in conformity with regulatory requirements. Within a legal entity, invested assets are
available to pay claims and expenses of both Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments as well as the Other category. Invested assets are not segregated or otherwise separately
identified for the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments.   

  Investment
income is allocated to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments based on an internal investment income allocation model. The model estimates investable funds based
primarily on loss reserves, unearned premiums and a capital allocation for each segment. The investment income allocation is calculated based on the estimated investable funds and risk-free yields
(plus a liquidity premium) consistent with the approximate duration of the liabilities. The actual yields in excess of the allocated amounts and the investment income from the assets not attributable
to the Commercial Insurance and the Consumer Insurance operating segments are assigned to the Other category. Commencing in the first quarter of 2013, we began applying similar duration and risk-free
yields (plus a liquidity premium) to the allocated capital of Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance as is applied to loss reserves.   

  Net
realized capital gains (losses) and Other income (expense)   net are not allocated to Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance, but are reported as part of the Other
category.   

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

Net Investment Income   

  Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including equity market performance, changes in overall asset allocation, changes in the timing and amount of
expected cash flows on certain structured securities, and the movements of interest rates. Net investment income increased by $487 million or 10 percent in 2013, compared to 2012,
primarily due to increased alternative investment income derived from equity market performance and income associated with the PICC P C shares that are accounted for under the fair value option. This
alternative investment performance was most visible in investments in hedge funds, which benefited from the equity market performance. Fair value increases also contributed to the net investment
income increase. The portion of our investment in PICC P C shares accounted for under the fair value option, contributed $110 million to net investment income. Although interest rates remained
at historically low levels, there were upward movements in rates throughout the year, with the ten year U.S. Treasury yield increasing 126 basis points during the year. These increasing rates, coupled
with continued portfolio diversification, helped mitigate the effects of runoff rates on matured or sold investments exceeding new investment yields. The combination of improving yield differential
and above average alternative investment returns increased the return on invested assets by approximately 0.4 points to 4.2 percent.   

Corporate
debt securities continued to be the largest asset category. We continued to focus on risk-weighted opportunistic investments in higher yielding assets such as structured securities and
commercial mortgage loans. In addition we continued to maintain a defensive strategy on interest rates in the current rising rate environment by increasing our mix of floating rate securities. This
asset diversification has achieved an increase in average yields while the overall credit ratings of our fixed maturity investments were largely unchanged. We expect to continue to refine our
investment strategy in 2014 to meet our liquidity, duration and credit quality objectives as well as current risk-return and tax objectives.   

  Our
invested asset portfolio decreased by approximately $8 billion, or 6 percent during the year, due to a decline in unrealized appreciation from rising interest rates, foreign currency
translation adjustment losses in our international portfolio as the dollar strengthened against the yen, and approximately $4.3 billion in dividend remittances to AIG Parent.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)   

  Net realized capital gains in 2013 were driven primarily by gains on the sales of fixed maturity securities, which were accomplished in concert with our portfolio
diversification and derisking strategy. Lower
overall gains on sales of securities, in combination with foreign exchange gains due to dollar strengthening more than offset losses from derivatives used to economically hedge foreign currency
positions compared to the prior year. We recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges of $53 million, which was a significant improvement from the $377 million in charges
recognized in 2012, as market factors such as improved housing fundamentals resulted in structured securities impairments well below those recognized in 2012.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
94  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY    

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

Net Investment Income   

  Net investment income increased $527 million or 12 percent in 2012, compared to 2011, primarily due to the impact of the overall diversification in the asset
portfolio during the year. We adopted yield-enhancement initiatives in 2011, and continued through 2012, which increased the average yield of our investment portfolio by 0.3 points to
4.0 percent during 2012.   

  Our
invested asset portfolio grew by approximately $4.3 billion, or 3.0 percent during the year with declining interest rates and narrowing spreads in both investment grade and higher
yield asset classes contributing to higher unrealized appreciation in our portfolio.   

  Net
investment income from other investment categories increased by $231 million in 2012 compared to 2011, of which $113 million was attributed to the strong performance of alternative
investments, following a 16 percent increase in the S P 500 Index during 2012. Other investment income also increased by $69 million due to the strategic group benefits
partnership with AIG Life and Retirement, all of which is reported in Consumer Insurance.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)   

  Net realized capital gains in 2012 were driven by gains recognized on the sale of fixed maturity and equity securities, which were partially offset by an
other-than-temporary impairments charge attributed to a decrease in recoverable values for structured securities, as well as alternative and equity security investments that were in an unrealized loss
position for 12 months. Net realized capital gains were less than 2011, due to fewer gains on sales in our fixed maturity securities portfolio and derivative losses as opposed to derivative
gains in 2011 resulting from long term interest rate movements.   

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense

The
following discussion of the consolidated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense (loss reserves) presents loss reserves for AIG Property Casualty as
well as the loss reserves pertaining to the Mortgage Guaranty reporting unit, which is reported in Other Operations.   

   The following table presents the components of AIG's gross loss reserves by major lines of business on a U.S. statutory basis*:   

*     Presented
by lines of business pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
95  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

  AIG's gross loss reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including estimates for incurred but not reported (IBNR) and loss
expenses, less applicable discount for future investment income. We regularly review and update the methods and assumptions used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting
reserves. Any adjustments resulting from this review are reflected in pre-tax operating income. Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are
unavoidable given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase prior years' estimates of ultimate cost are
referred to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease prior years' estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development.   

The
net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by estimated salvage and subrogation, reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance, and applicable discount for
future investment income.   

   The following table presents the components of net loss reserves:   

*     Includes
$1.6 billion of reinsurance recoverable under a retroactive reinsurance agreement at both December 31, 2013 and 2012.   

Our gross loss reserves before reinsurance and discount are net of contractual deductible recoverable amounts due from policyholders of approximately
$12.0 billion and $11.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These recoverable amounts are related to certain policies with high deductibles (primarily for U.S.
commercial casualty business) where we manage and pay the entire claim on behalf of the insured and are reimbursed by the insured for the deductible portion of the claim. At December 31, 2013
and 2012, we held collateral totaling $9.0 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, for these deductible recoverable amounts, consisting primarily of letters of credit and trust
agreements.   

   The following table classifies the components of net loss reserves by business unit:     

(a)  The
2012 amounts have been revised to conform the presentation of the total discount. The impact of this revision was an increase to Commercial Insurance of $654 million and a
corresponding decrease to Other of $654 million, with no income statement or balance sheet impact.   

  (b)  Excludes
future policyholder benefits of $3.5 billion.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
96  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

Discounting of Reserves

The following table presents the components of AIG Property Casualty's loss reserve discount included above:   

See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discounting of loss reserves.   

   The following table presents the net reserve discount benefit (charge):   

We discount loss reserves, in a manner consistent with rates and factors approved or prescribed by state regulatory authorities. Effective for the fourth
quarter of 2013, our Pennsylvania regulator approved use of a consistent discount rate (U.S. Treasury rate plus a liquidity premium) for all of our workers' compensation reserves in our
Pennsylvania-domiciled companies, as well as our use of updated payout patterns specific to our primary and excess workers' compensation portfolios. Prior to this change, workers' compensation
reserves held by a Pennsylvania-domiciled insurer were discounted as follows: i) for loss reserves associated with accident year 2001 and prior accident years, a prescribed discount factor
based on a rate of 6 percent and industry payout patterns, were applied, ii) for loss reserves associated with accident year 2002 and subsequent accident years, a rate of
4.25 percent and our own payout patterns were applied; and iii) for a portion of loss reserves comprising excess workers' compensation reserves that were assumed into
Pennsylvania-domiciled insurers from New York-domiciled insurers during 2011, we applied New York discounting rules, which include a prescribed rate of 5 percent on case reserves only (no
discounting of IBNR reserves). The new discount rates more closely approximate the expected risk-adjusted yield on the underlying invested assets over the expected payout periods.   

As
a result of these changes, the total net discount for workers' compensation reserves increased by $427 million. This amount was partially offset by normal accretion expense of
$100 million (associated with maturing reserves partially offset by discounts applied to newly established reserves) for a full year net benefit of $327 million. The net benefit
consisted of a $322 million reduction within the Commercial Insurance operating segment, primarily from application of a lower discount rate on primary workers' compensation reserves, and a
benefit of $649 million in Other, primarily from increased payout patterns specific to excess workers' compensation reserves (as opposed to the prescribed discount factors), which were only
partially offset by the lower U.S. Treasury-based discount rates. In addition, this amount was offset by $18 million of amortization of asbestos reserves.   

In
addition, commencing January 1, 2014, we will be merging our two internal pooling arrangements into one pool, and will be changing the participation percentages of the pool members. We
expect that this will result in an additional workers' compensation loss reserve discount benefit of approximately $100 million to be recorded during the first quarter of 2014. As a result of
the participation percentages and domiciliary states of the participants of the combined pool, a portion of the workers' compensation reserves currently held net in New York subsidiaries and
discounted pursuant to New York discounting rules, will be transferred to Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington),   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
97  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

domiciled
in Delaware. New York discounting rules generally do not permit non-tabular discounting on IBNR and only prescribes a 5 percent rate for application to case reserves. We also expect
to receive a permitted practice from the Delaware Department of Insurance to allow discounting on the same basis as Pennsylvania domiciled companies described above. The $100 million
anticipated impact arises from the application of non-tabular discount to the IBNR transferred out of New York companies to Pennsylvania and Delaware companies, offset partially by a decrease in the
effective discount rate from the 5 percent prescribed rate in New York.   

Annual Reserving Conclusion     

  AIG net loss reserves represent our best estimate of our liability for net losses and loss expenses as of December 31, 2013. While we
regularly review the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that our ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed our loss reserves as of
December 31, 2013. In our opinion, such adverse development and resulting increase in reserves are not likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, although
such events could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period.   

   The following table presents the rollforward of net loss reserves:     

(a)  For
the 2012 amounts, $847 million was reclassified from "Foreign exchange effect" to "Losses and loss expenses paid (current year)". The impact of this reclassification was a
decrease of $847 million for foreign exchange and loss expenses paid (current year), with no income statement or balance sheet impact.   

(b)  See
tables below for details of prior year development by business unit, accident year and major class of business.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
98  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

   The following table summarizes development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years, net of
reinsurance, by major class of business:   

During 2013, the adverse prior year loss development net of premium accruals was $438 million. The increase was primarily due to the increases in
reserves by $108 million for Storm Sandy, $219 million for U.S. construction primary general liability lines and $238 million for the run-off environmental (1987 to 2004) book.   

  In
addition, we recognized additional premiums on loss-sensitive business of $89 million, $54 million and $172 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred reinstatement premiums of $27 million, compared to $0 for both years 2012 and 2011.   

Net Loss Development by Class of Business

In
determining the loss development from prior accident years, we analyze and evaluate the change in estimated ultimate loss for each accident year by class of business. For
example, if loss emergence for a class of business is different than expected for certain accident years, we examine the indicated effect such emergence would have on   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
99  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

  the
reserves of that class of business. In some cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate loss estimate for the accident years in question, and
no adjustment would be made to the reserves for the class of business for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either
favorable or unfavorable. As appropriate, we make adjustments for the difference between the actual and expected loss emergence for each accident year. As part of our reserving process, we also
consider notices of claims received with respect to emerging and/or evolving issues.   

  The
following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the development in 2013, 2012 and 2011 of those classes of business that experienced significant prior accident year development during the
three-year period. See Critical Accounting Estimates for a description of our loss reserving process.   

Excess Casualty     

  The excess casualty segment presents unique challenges for estimating the unpaid claims. Insureds are generally required to provide notice of claims
that exceed a threshold, either expressed as a proportion of the attachment (e.g., 50 percent of the attachment) or as particular types of claims (e.g., death,
quadriplegia). This threshold is generally established well below our attachment point, to provide us with a precautionary notice of claims that could potentially pierce our layer of coverage. This
means that the majority of claims close without payment because the claims never pierce our layer, while the claims that close with payment can be large and highly variable. Thus, estimates of unpaid
claims carry significant uncertainty. For reserve reporting purposes, we now combine the Umbrella Excess casualty business with the high layer Catastrophic Casualty business that attaches when losses
exceed $50 million.   

  During
2013, Excess Casualty experienced $144 million of favorable emergence due to favorable outcomes on some large cases from 2010 and lower than expected emergence in high layer Catastrophic
Casualty business.   

  During
2012, the Excess Casualty class of business experienced $157 million of adverse development based on worse than expected Umbrella Excess emergence, primarily from adverse outcomes
relating to certain large claims from older accident years, from the legacy public entity excess casualty class of business and from a refined analysis applied to claims in excess of
$10 million. This refined analysis considered the impact of changing attachment points (primarily impacting frequency of excess claims) and limit structures (primarily impacting severity of
excess claims) throughout the loss development period.   

  During
2011, the Excess Casualty class of business experienced better than expected loss emergence. For Umbrella Excess, the expected loss emergence was based on the shorter-termed loss development
pattern from the year-end 2010 reserve analysis. However, accident year 2010 experienced some large catastrophic losses causing its results to be worse than expected.   

Environmental and Pollution Products     

  We maintain an active environmental insurance business related to pollution legal liability and general liability for environmental consultants and
engineers, as well as runoff business for certain environmental coverage which provides cost overrun protection, in some cases over long time periods. We evaluate and report reserves associated with
this business separately from the 1986 and prior asbestos and environmental reserves associated with standard General Liability and Umbrella policies discussed under "Asbestos and Environmental
Reserves".   

  In
2013, our analysis of pollution products reflected an updated review of individual cases which indicated large increases in the value of certain previously reported cases due to new developments
such as the discovery of additional contamination in certain sites, legislative changes, court rulings, expansion of plaintiff damages and increased cost of remediation technologies. Additionally, the
number and severity of newly reported claims was higher than expected. As a result, we increased our estimate of ultimate losses by approximately $269 million with approximately
$201 million of this relating to policies written in 2003 and prior. Significant changes in underwriting during 2004 changed the terms and conditions materially for policies written after 2003
to reduce our exposure to these events.   

  Because
of an increase in the frequency and severity of claims observed beginning in 2011, the 2012 loss reserve review consisted of an intensive review of reported claims by a multi-disciplinary team
including external specialists in environmental law and engineering science, toxicologists and other specialists, our actuaries, claims managers and underwriters to reassess our indicated loss reserve
need. The review improved our understanding of factors that   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
100  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

  drive
claim costs such as policy term, limit, pollution conditions covered, location of incident and applicable laws and remediation standards. The analysis used these factors to segment and analyze
the claim data to determine ultimate costs, in some cases, on a claim by claim basis. As a result of this analysis, $200 million of prior year adverse development was recognized during 2012,
including $166 million for pollution products reported in the AIG Property Casualty Other reporting unit related to lines that are now in runoff. The majority (81 percent) of the adverse
development related to accident years 2003 and prior, before significant underwriting changes were adopted.   

  Historically,
we had used traditional actuarial methods to assess the reserves for the pollution products. The comprehensive claims review provided a more refined approach for the development of
actuarial estimates for toxic tort claims (which were found to have a distinctly lengthier loss development pattern than other general liability claims in the environmental portfolio) as well as a
more appropriate methodology for incorporating case reserving based estimates of ultimate loss costs for complex claims involving environmental remediation and/or from policies with high policy limits
(greater than $5 million per policy). Notwithstanding the refined methodology and approach applied in 2012 and subsequently, considerable uncertainty remains over the ultimate loss cost for
this class of business, especially for business written in accident years 2003 and prior.   

  We
strengthened our Pollution Products reserves in 2011 by $385 million, partly due to large reserve increases on several individual claims. Of this amount, $382 million was included in
the AIG Property Casualty Other reporting unit. Approximately 80 percent of the 2011 development was associated with accident years 2003 and prior.   

  In
addition to reserving actions, we have made significant changes to the ongoing environmental business included in Commercial with the goal of ensuring that the current policies are being written to
earn an appropriate risk adjusted profit. Underwriting guidelines have been revised to no longer cover known or expected clean up costs, which were a significant driver of historical claims, and a
"new emerging contaminants" team has been formed within the dedicated environmental engineering staff to track any new cleanup standards that may be set by federal or state regulators. Further,
engineering reviews are required for specific business segments (such as oil and gas, and landfills) that have traditionally generated higher losses.   

Primary Casualty     

  Primary Casualty includes Workers' Compensation and General Liability in Commercial Risk, Specialty Workers' Compensation, Energy Business units,
Worldsource and Non-Admitted business.   

  The
Commercial Risk division writes casualty insurance for businesses with revenues of less than $700 million. The majority of the business is workers' compensation. The Energy division writes
casualty insurance (including workers' compensation) in the mining, oil and gas and power generation sectors. The Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation division writes small monoline guaranteed
cost risks. Our Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation business unit grew significantly in the early to mid 2000s but has reduced premium writings by nearly 70 percent since 2007.   

During
2013, we continued to refine the segmentation of our analyses of primary workers' compensation, which indicated that prior year development was flat after taking into account the initiatives
that our claim function has undertaken to manage high risk claims.   

  During
2013, for primary general liability, we increased our reserves for prior years by approximately $355 million. Most of the increase was driven by construction-related primary general
liability claims, especially construction defect claims where we increased our ultimate loss estimates by $219 million to reflect the higher than expected frequency and severity of these claims
especially in states that experienced heavy increases in construction activity after the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes and during the housing boom prior to 2007. Due to the subsequent home price declines
observed in many of these states, the frequency of reported losses has increased as the losses subsequently represented a larger percentage of the equity values of the affected homes, and homeowners
increasingly looked to insurance recoveries as a way to recoup some of that lost value.   

  During
2012, we significantly intensified our claims management efforts for those primary workers' compensation claims which are managed by AIG. These efforts include consulting with various
specialists, including clinical and public health professionals and other advisors. We also continued to refine our actuarial methodologies for estimating ultimate loss costs incorporating a more
refined segmentation by state (California and New York were analyzed separately) and a more refined approach for business subject to deductibles as well as business subject to premium adjustments
(loss-sensitive business). Based on these enhanced reviews, we increased reserves by $46 million.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
101  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

  In 2012, we also reviewed the general liability loss experience of the primary casualty classes of business using a more refined segmentation for business
subject to a deductible as well as loss-sensitive business. Our review focused on applying actuarial loss development analyses to those general liability claims for which these techniques are
appropriate. As a result of this analysis, we determined that prior year reserves needed to be increased by $235 million for the primary general liability class of business in 2012 to reflect
the worse than expected emergence of paid loss severities for both bodily injury and property damage claims from the more recent accident years (2008 and subsequent).   

  The
Commercial Risk, Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation and Energy divisions contributed $265 million, $145 million and $115 million, respectively, of adverse development
in calendar year 2011. The vast majority of this adverse development emanates from primary workers' compensation exposure, which was largely from accident year 2010. In 2011, losses for accident year
2010 continued to emerge at higher levels than anticipated at prior year end. A key driver was the effect of high unemployment on the frequency of higher severity lost time claims. The poor economic
environment precluded some employers from offering "light duty" return-to-work alternatives that might otherwise have mitigated lost time claims. At the same time, the increased use of pain management
strategies has led to increased medical claims. The increase in lost time frequency and the adverse effects of medical cost trends resulted in higher loss ratios than anticipated at prior year end.
For each of the three classes, our conclusion that the worsening experience necessitated a strengthening of the reserves was confirmed by an independent third-party actuarial review during 2011.   

Healthcare     

  During 2013, this class recognized $54 million of favorable prior year development due to lower than expected loss emergence in many classes
such as Excess Hospital Liability.   

  During
2012, this class recognized $68 million of adverse prior year development due to several large claims that involved unusual coverage issues for this class. With the exception of these
claims, this class experienced claim activity in line with expectations.   

  Healthcare
business written by AIG Property Casualty's Americas region produced moderate favorable development in 2011. Healthcare loss reserves have benefited from favorable market conditions and an
improved legal environment in accident years 2002 and subsequent, following a period of adverse loss trends and market conditions that began in the mid 1990s.   

Excess Workers' Compensation   U.S.     

  This class of business has an extremely long tail and is one of the most challenging classes of business to reserve for, particularly when the excess
coverage is provided above a self-insured retention layer. The class is highly sensitive to small changes in assumptions   in the rate of medical inflation or the longevity of
injured workers, for example   which can have a significant effect on the ultimate reserve estimate.   

During
2013, we updated our analysis of Excess Workers' Compensation reserves and determined that no changes to our carried reserves were needed. During the 2012 loss reserve review, we augmented
traditional reserve methodologies with an analysis of underlying claims cost drivers to inform our judgment of the ultimate loss costs for open reported claims from accident years 2003 and prior
(representing approximately 95 percent of all open reported claims) and used the refined analysis to inform our judgment of the ultimate loss cost for claims that have not yet been reported
using a frequency/severity approach for these accident years.   

  This
approach was deemed to be most suitable for injured workers whose medical conditions had largely stabilized (i.e., at least 9 to 10 years have elapsed since the date of injury). The
reserves for accident years 2004 and subsequent (13 percent of total case and IBNR reserves for this class) were determined using traditional methods. See Critical Accounting Estimates for
additional information.   

  The
refined analysis confirmed that significant uncertainty remains for this class of business, especially from unreported claims and from the propensity for future medical deterioration. Based on the
more refined analysis we did not recognize any material development for accident years 2011 and prior.   

Natural Catastrophes     

  During 2013, we experienced adverse development from Storm Sandy totaling $108 million, or 5.4 percent of the December 31, 2012
estimate. This development resulted from higher severities on a small number of large and   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
102  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

  complex
commercial claims driven by a number of factors including the extensive damage caused to properties in the downtown New York metropolitan area.   

  During
2012, we experienced favorable development from the Tohoku Catastrophe due to commercial claim severities being less than previously reserved.   

See
Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense for further discussion of our loss reserving
process.   

   The following table summarizes development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years, net of reinsurance, by accident
year:   

Net Loss Development by Accident Year

For
2013, the favorable development from accident year 2012 was driven primarily by consumer lines and lower losses in domestic commercial property, while the favorable
development from accident year 2010 was primarily the result of favorable claims emergence from domestic excess casualty and from liability and financial lines coverage policies that are on a
claims-made basis. The adverse development from accident year 2011 was driven by large losses in financial lines and adverse development in primary casualty including loss-sensitive business. The
adverse development from accident year 2009 was driven by large losses in financial lines and adverse development in primary casualty including loss-sensitive business. Also for the same periods, the
adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior was primarily driven by loss development on toxic claims tort construction general liability claims and pollution product claims.   

  For
2012, the favorable development from accident year 2011 was driven primarily by the favorable development on natural catastrophes, primarily the Tohoku Catastrophe, and the adverse development
from accident years 2003 and prior was primarily the result of the increase in reserves on runoff pollution product business (policies written between 1987and 2003).   

  For
2011, the adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior was largely driven by runoff pollution products (written between 1987and 2003) and toxic tort claims. Adverse development from
accident year 2010 was largely driven by primary workers' compensation and loss-sensitive primary business. Favorable development from accident years 2005 to 2008 was driven by financial lines,
claims-made excess classes and other casualty classes.   

  For
certain categories of claims (e.g., construction defect claims and environmental claims) and for reinsurance recoverables, losses may sometimes be reclassified to an earlier or later
accident year as more information about the date of occurrence becomes available to AIG. These reclassifications are shown as development in the respective years in the table above.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
103  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

Asbestos and Environmental Reserves

Asbestos and Environmental Loss Reserve Estimates

We
consider a number of factors and recent experience, in addition to the results of both external and internal analyses, to estimate asbestos and environmental loss
reserves. Nonetheless, we believe that significant uncertainty remains as to our ultimate liability for asbestos and environmental claims, which is due to several factors,
including:  

the long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation, leading to the potential for involvement of
multiple policy periods for individual claims;   
           claims filed under the non-aggregate premises or operations section of general liability policies;    
           the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the effect of prepackaged bankruptcies;    
           diverging legal interpretations; and   
           the difficulty in estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various parties with respect to environmental
claims.    

  We
engaged an independent third-party actuarial firm to assist in assessing asbestos exposures. This external study was completed in early 2011, based on losses evaluated in 2010.The ground-up study
conducted by this firm used a proprietary model to calculate the loss exposure on an insured-by-insured basis. We believe that the accuracy of the reserve estimate is greatly enhanced through the
combination of the actuarial firm's industry modeling techniques and industry knowledge and our own specific account-level experience.   

  In
2011, in addition to this third-party ground-up asbestos study, we internally completed a top-down report year projections as well as market share projections of our indicated asbestos and
environmental loss reserves. These projections consisted of a series of tests performed separately for asbestos and for environmental exposures.   

  For
asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be reported through 2027. This projection was based on the actual losses reported through 2011 and the expected future loss emergence for these
claims. Three scenarios were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more optimistic to more conservative. For environmental claims, a comparable series of frequency/severity tests were
produced. As a result of the studies, we concluded that no additional strengthening was required for asbestos and environmental in 2011.   

  In
2012, after we carefully considered the recent experience compared to the results of the 2010 ground-up analysis, as well as all of the above factors related to uncertainty, no adjustment to gross
and net asbestos reserves was recognized in 2012. Additionally in 2012, a moderate amount of incurred loss pertaining to the asbestos loss reserve discount is reflected in the table below and is
related to the reserves not subject to the NICO reinsurance agreement. Upon completion of a top-down analysis performed for environmental in the fourth quarter of 2012, we concluded that the
$150 million gross reserve strengthening and $75 million net reserve strengthening recognized in the first half of 2012 was adequate.   

  In
2013, we completed a ground-up review of all our remaining retained accounts for asbestos. In addition, a subsidiary of the retrocessionaire for our retroactive reinsurance contract completed a
ground-up asbestos study for
the largest accounts it assumed. After carefully considering the results of both ground-up studies, we increased gross asbestos loss reserves by $220 million and net asbestos loss reserves by
$110 million. These reserve increases also reflect a small amount of estimated uncollectible reinsurance and accretion of discount. A significant portion of the net loss reserve increase will
be recoverable under our retroactive reinsurance arrangement. For environmental, we increased gross environmental reserves by $98 million and net environmental reserves by $61 million as
a result of top-down actuarial analyses performed during the year as well as development on a number of large accounts.   

  In
addition to the U.S. asbestos and environmental reserve amounts shown in the tables below, AIG Property Casualty also has asbestos reserves relating to foreign risks written by non-U.S. entities of
$134 million gross and $108 million net as of December 31, 2013 compared to $140 million gross and $116 million net as of December 31, 2012.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
104  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

The following table provides a summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims:   

(a)  Re-estimation
of amounts recoverable under retroactive reinsurance contracts includes effect of changes in reserve estimates and changes in discount. Additionally, the 2011 Net amount
includes the effect on net loss reserves of the initial cession to NICO.   

  (b)  These
amounts exclude benefit from retroactive reinsurance.   

Transfer of Domestic Asbestos Liabilities Under a Retroactive Reinsurance Arrangement     

  On June 17, 2011, we completed a transaction under which the bulk of AIG Property Casualty's net domestic asbestos liabilities were
transferred to NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. This was part of our ongoing   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
105  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

strategy
to reduce our overall loss reserve development risk. This transaction covers potentially volatile U.S.-related asbestos exposures. It does not, however, cover asbestos accounts that we
believe have already been reserved to their limit of liability or certain other ancillary asbestos exposure assumed by AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries.   

  Upon
the closing of this transaction, but effective as of January 1, 2011, we ceded the bulk of AIG Property Casualty's net domestic asbestos liabilities to NICO under a retroactive reinsurance
agreement with an aggregate limit of $3.5 billion. Within this aggregate limit, NICO assumed collection risk for existing third-party reinsurance recoverable associated with these liabilities.
AIG Property Casualty paid NICO approximately $1.67 billion as consideration for this cession and NICO assumed approximately $1.82 billion of net U.S. asbestos liabilities. As a result
of this transaction, AIG Property Casualty recorded a deferred gain of $150 million in the second quarter of 2011, which is being amortized into income over the settlement period of the
underlying claims.   

  Under
retroactive reinsurance arrangements any recoveries for development associated with the ceded losses are not recognized immediately; rather this development increases or decreases the deferred
gain, and is amortized into income as described above. During 2013, we recognized approximately $87 million of adverse loss development that was ceded under this reinsurance arrangement, which
was partially offset by $15 million of deferred gain amortization. Prior years' amounts were immaterial. This development, net of the deferred gain amortization, is being reported in Other
income/expense, consistent with the way we manage the business and assess performance and is therefore excluded from net losses incurred and our loss ratios to avoid distortion related to our ongoing
insurance business.   

   The following table presents the estimate of the gross and net IBNR included in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, relating to asbestos and
environmental claims:   

*     Net
IBNR includes the reduction due to the NICO reinsurance transaction of $1,284 million, $1,310 million and $1,414 million as of December 31, 2013, 2012
and 2011, respectively. A significant part of the reduction in IBNR in 2012 is due to the reclassification of estimated liabilities on a retained account from IBNR to case reserves.   

The following table presents a summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity:     

(a)  The
number of environmental claims dismissed or otherwise resolved, increased substantially during 2012 as a result of AIG Property Casualty's determination that certain methyl
tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE) claims presented no further potential for exposure since these underlying claims were resolved through dismissal, settlement, or trial for all of the accounts involved. All
of these accounts were fully reserved at the account level and included adequate reserves for those underlying individual claims that contributed to the actual losses. These individual claim closings,
therefore, had no impact on AIG Property Casualty's environmental reserves.   

  (b)  Represents
an administrative change to the method of determining the number of open claims, which had no effect on carried reserves.   

Survival Ratios   Asbestos and Environmental     

  The following table presents AIG's survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. The survival
ratio is derived by dividing the current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival ratio is a simplistic measure
estimating the   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
106  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

  number
of years it would take before the current ending loss reserves for these claims would be paid off using recent year average payments.   

  Many
factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and payments and
the resulting survival ratio. Additionally, we primarily base our determination of these reserves based on ground-up and top-down analyses, and not on survival ratios.   

The following table presents survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined, which were based upon a three-year average
payment:   

*     Survival
ratios are calculated consistent with the basis on historical reserve excluding the effects of the NICO reinsurance transaction.   

AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT

AIG
Life and Retirement presents its operating results in two operating segments      Retail    and     Institutional   .   

AIG Life and Retirement 2013 Highlights

Premiums and deposits    improved significantly in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily from strong sales of annuities in our
Retirement Income Solutions and Fixed Annuities product lines and increased Retail Mutual Fund sales. The improvement in Retirement Income Solutions resulted from our efforts to increase sales while
managing risk by meeting the strong market demand for guaranteed features with innovative variable annuity products and expanded distribution. As a result of the 2013 increase in premiums and
deposits, net flows on investment products improved in 2013 compared to 2012. Net flows from our Fixed Annuities product line, while still
negative in 2013, improved compared to 2012 as a result of the modest rise in interest rates in the second half of 2013, which has increased the demand for fixed annuities.   

   Pre-tax operating income    increased in 2013 compared to 2012 due to higher fee income from growth in variable annuity assets under management and active
spread management in our interest rate sensitive product lines. The increase in net investment income in 2013 compared to 2012 reflected higher alternative investment income, partially offset by fair
value gains on ML II in 2012 that did not recur in 2013 and reinvestment of investment proceeds at lower rates. Pre-tax operating income in 2013 also included a $153 million net increase from
adjustments to update certain estimated gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items in our investment-oriented product lines. These adjustments increased 2013 pre-tax operating
income in our Retail operating segment by $198 million and decreased 2013 pre-tax operating income in our Institutional operating segment by $45 million. See Critical Accounting
Estimates   Estimated Gross Profits for Investment-Oriented Products (AIG Life and Retirement) for additional discussion of updated estimated gross profit assumptions. Pre-tax
operating income in 2012 also included $234 million of expenses related to the resolution of multi-state regulatory examinations of death claims practices and additional reserves for long-term
care products and the GIC portfolio.   

   Pre-tax income    increased in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting the increases in pre-tax operating income as well as increases in legal settlements with
financial institutions that participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS from which AIG and its subsidiaries realized losses during the financial crisis. Additionally, pre-tax income
increased due to net realized capital gains from continued investment sales to utilize capital loss carryforwards, which increased in 2013 compared to 2012. However, reinvestment of these sales
proceeds at lower current yields has contributed to lower future investment returns, reducing spreads in interest-sensitive product lines, and resulting in loss recognition for certain traditional
products in 2013 and 2012, which was reported in Changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA and SIA related to net realized capital gains (losses). See AIG Life and Retirement Reserves and
DAC   Other Reserve Changes for additional discussion of loss recognition.   

   Dividends and loan repayments paid    by AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries to AIG Parent increased to $4.4 billion in 2013 from
$2.9 billion in 2012 from strong pre-tax income, as we continue to pursue capital efficiency and leverage our streamlined legal structure. The increase in dividends in 2013 compared to 2012 is
primarily due to legal settlement proceeds in 2013.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
107  

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

AIG Life and Retirement Results

The following table presents AIG Life and Retirement results:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
108  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

AIG Life and Retirement Results   

  Pre-tax operating income increased in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting higher fee income from variable annuities driven by growth in assets under management, continued
active spread management in interest rate sensitive product lines and higher net investment income. Net investment income increased in 2013 compared to 2012, due to higher income from alternative
investments, partially offset by ML II fair value gains recognized in 2012 and reinvestment of investment proceeds at lower rates. Pre-tax operating income in 2013 included a net increase of
$153 million from adjustments to update certain gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items in our investment-oriented product lines.   

  The
increase in pre-tax operating income in 2013 compared to the prior year also reflected additional expenses recorded in 2012, which were related to the resolution of multi-state regulatory
examinations of death claims practices and additional reserves for long-term care products in the Retail operating segment, and a comprehensive review of reserves for the GIC portfolio in the
Institutional operating segment.   

Retail Results   

  Pre-tax operating income for our Retail operating segment increased in 2013 compared to 2012, due in part to higher fee income in the Retirement Income Solutions product
line, which reflected growth in variable annuity assets under management driven by strong sales and positive equity market performance. Base spreads (defined as net investment income excluding
alternative investments and yield-enhancement activities, less interest credited) improved in 2013 compared to 2012, as a result of active spread management in our interest-sensitive product lines.
The impact of life insurance mortality on pre-tax operating income improved in 2013
compared to 2012. Pre-tax operating income for the Retail operating segment in 2013 included $198 million of net favorable adjustments to update estimated gross profit assumptions for annuity
spreads, surrender rates and life insurance mortality. See Critical Accounting Estimates   Estimated Gross Profits for Investment-Oriented Products (AIG Life and Retirement)
for additional discussion of estimated gross profit assumptions.   

  The
increases in Other income and in Other acquisition and insurance expenses in 2013 compared to 2012 included additional activity in our Brokerage Services product line principally due to the
acquisition of Woodbury Financial in November 2012.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
109  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

  The
increase in pre-tax operating income in 2013 compared to the prior year also reflected additional expenses recorded in 2012, which included $67 million of additional reserves for long-term
care products and $57 million related to the resolution of multi-state regulatory examinations of death claims practices, and higher general operating expenses related to incentive compensation
plans.   

Institutional Results   

  Pre-tax operating income for our Institutional operating segment increased in 2013 compared to 2012, due in part to higher fee income in the Group Retirement product line,
which benefited from growth in separate account assets under management driven by favorable equity market performance. In addition, we continued active spread management in our interest rate sensitive
product lines, which included lowering renewal crediting rates and disciplined new business pricing in our Group Retirement product line. Pre-tax operating income for the Institutional operating
segment in 2013 was reduced by $45 million of net unfavorable adjustments primarily to update estimated gross profit assumptions for annuity spreads, partially offset by an increase in the
assumption for separate account asset long-term growth rates in the Group Retirement product line. See Critical Accounting Estimates   Estimated Gross Profits for
Investment-Oriented Products (AIG Life and Retirement) for additional discussion of estimated gross profit assumptions. The increase in pre-tax operating income compared to 2012 also reflected
$110 million of expenses recorded in 2012 resulting from a comprehensive review of reserves for the GIC portfolio.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

AIG Life and Retirement Results   

  Pre-tax operating income increased in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting active spread management in interest rate sensitive product lines and higher net investment income.
The increase in net investment income compared to 2011 included reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short-term investments, higher fair value gains from ML II and PICC Group, lower
impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and higher income from alternative investments. Benefit expense and DAC amortization expense for variable annuity products were lower in
2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to the favorable impact of separate account performance, which more than offset higher life insurance mortality costs. Pre-tax operating income also increased due
to lower expenses in 2012 compared to 2011 related to the resolution of multi-state regulatory examinations of death claims practices in the Retail operating segment. Offsetting these increases in
Pre-tax operating income were additional reserves for the GIC portfolio in 2012, and a decrease due to legal settlement proceeds of $226 million received in resolution of a litigation matter
and included in Other income in 2011.   

Retail Results   

  Pre-tax operating income for our Retail operating segment increased in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting active spread management in interest rate sensitive product lines
and higher net investment income. The increase in net investment income included reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short-term investments, higher fair value gains from ML II and PICC
Group, lower impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and higher income from alternative investments. Benefit expense and DAC amortization expense related to variable annuity
products in the Retirement Income Solutions product line were lower in 2012 than 2011, primarily due to the favorable impact of separate account performance, which more than offset higher mortality
costs in the Life Insurance and A H product line. Pre-tax operating income also increased due to lower expenses of $57 million in 2012 compared to $202 million in 2011 related to the
resolution of multi-state regulatory examinations of death claims practices. Offsetting these positive variances was a decrease due to legal settlement proceeds included in Other income in 2011.   

Institutional Results   

  Pre-tax operating income for our Institutional operating segment increased in 2012 compared to 2011 due to active spread management in our Group Retirement product line,
which included lowering renewal crediting rates and disciplined new business pricing. Net investment income increased in 2012 compared to 2011 due to reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and
short-term investments, higher fair value gains from ML II and PICC Group, lower impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and higher income from alternative investments.
Offsetting these positive variances were decreases in pre-tax operating income compared to 2011 from legal   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
110  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

  settlement
proceeds included in Other income in 2011 and $110 million of expenses recorded in 2012 resulting from a comprehensive review of reserves for the GIC portfolio.   

AIG Life and Retirement Premiums, Deposits and Net Flows

Premiums
represent amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on life-contingent payout annuities. Premiums and deposits is
a non-GAAP financial measure that includes direct and assumed premiums as well as deposits received on universal life insurance, investment-type annuity contracts, GICs and mutual funds.   

   The following table presents a reconciliation of premiums and deposits to GAAP premiums:     

Premiums    increased slightly in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily from higher structured settlement and terminal
funding annuity premiums in the Institutional Markets product line and higher immediate annuity premiums in the Fixed Annuities product line. Premiums decreased slightly in 2012 compared to 2011, due
to lower Group Benefit premiums partially offset by higher term life insurance premiums.   

   The following table presents premiums and deposits by operating segment and product line:   

Premiums and deposits    improved significantly in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily from strong sales of annuities
in our Retirement Income Solutions and Fixed Annuities product lines and increased sales of Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement mutual funds. Within the Group Retirement product line, the
increase from mutual funds was largely offset by lower variable annuity deposits, due in part to the historically low interest rate environment making deposits into fixed options less attractive.
Premiums and deposits decreased in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to the impact of the historically low interest rate environment on fixed annuity sales and on Group Retirement deposits into
fixed options.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
111  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

Net Flows     

  Net flows are presented for our investment product lines, which include Fixed Annuities, Retirement Income Solutions, Retail Mutual Funds and Group
Retirement. Net flows from annuities, which are included in the Fixed Annuities, Retirement Income Solutions and Group Retirement product lines, represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender
and other withdrawal benefits. Mutual fund net flows, which are included in the Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement product lines, represent deposits less withdrawals.   

   The following table summarizes net flows for our investment product lines:   

*     Excludes
activity related to closed blocks of fixed and variable annuities, which have reserves of approximately $6 billion at each of December 31, 2013 and 2012.   

Total net flows from annuities and mutual funds increased in 2013 compared to 2012, and decreased in 2012 compared to 2011. A discussion of the significant
variances in net flows for each of these product lines follows, including variances in premiums and deposits, a key component of net flows.   

Retail Net Flows   

   Fixed Annuities    net flows and premiums and deposits showed improvement in 2013 compared to 2012, due to modest increases in
interest rates and steepening of the yield curve in the second half of 2013, which made fixed annuity products more attractive in the marketplace compared to competing products such as bank deposits.
The relatively low level of deposits in 2013 and 2012 compared to 2011, however, resulted in negative net flows for this product line in both 2013 and 2012, reflecting the challenges of the sustained
low interest rate environment, as consumers were reluctant to purchase these products at the relatively low crediting rates offered, which have been priced to maintain our targeted spreads. Negative
net flows have moderated since the second half of 2013 from the increase in deposits.   

   Retirement Income Solutions    premiums and deposits and net flows increased significantly in 2013 and 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting higher variable
annuity sales, which have benefitted from innovative product   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
112  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

  enhancements
and expanded distribution as well as a more favorable competitive environment. The surrender rate for this product line improved in 2013 compared to 2012 due to the significant increase
in average reserves driven by strong sales and positive equity market performance.   

   Retail Mutual Fund    deposits and net flows increased in 2013 and 2012 compared to 2011, driven primarily by sales of our Focused Dividend Strategy
product offerings.   

Institutional Net Flows   

   Group Retirement    net flows, which include net flows from mutual funds in group retirement plans, decreased in 2013 and 2012
compared to 2011, and were negative in 2013, primarily as a result of higher surrenders of individual participant contracts as well as higher large group surrenders. As discussed above, premiums and
deposits for this product line included increases in mutual fund deposits largely offset by lower annuity deposits.   

The following table presents reserves for selected product lines by surrender charge category at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and surrender rates for 2013 and 2012:     

(a)  Excludes
mutual fund assets under management of $15.1 billion and $11.8 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  (b)  Group
Retirement Products include reserves of approximately $6.2 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, that are subject to
20 percent annual withdrawal limitations.   

AIG Life and Retirement Investments and Spread Management

Investments

We
invest primarily in fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies; structured securities collateralized by, among other
assets, residential and commercial real estate; and commercial mortgage loans. Income from these investments, as well as cash and short term investments, is included in our measure of base net
investment income, after excluding certain items such as call and tender income, mortgage prepayment fees, change in accretion of discount for certain high credit quality structured securities and
impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft.   

  In
addition, we seek to enhance our returns through investments in a diversified portfolio of private equity funds, hedge funds and affordable housing partnerships. Although these alternative
investments are subject to periodic earnings fluctuations, they have historically achieved yields in excess of the fixed maturity portfolio yields. Our investment portfolio also includes, to a lesser
extent, common and preferred stocks and yield-enhancement items, such as our investment in PICC Group and securities for which the fair value option has been elected, as well as ML II prior to its
liquidation in 2012.   

  Our
fundamental investment strategy is to maintain a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities with the intent to largely match the characteristics of our liabilities, including
duration, which is a measure of sensitivity to changes in interest rates. The investment portfolio of each product line is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, and as
a result, certain portfolios are shorter in duration and others are longer in duration. See Investments for additional discussion of our asset liability management process.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
113  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

NAIC Designations

The
Securities Valuation Office (SVO) of the NAIC evaluates the investments of U.S. insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of
six categories called 'NAIC Designations.' In general, NAIC Designations of '1' highest quality, or '2' high quality, include fixed maturity securities considered investment grade, while NAIC
Designations of '3' through '6' generally include fixed maturity securities referred to as below investment grade. The NAIC has adopted revised rating methodologies for certain structured securities,
including non-agency RMBS and CMBS, which are intended to enable a more precise assessment of the value of such structured securities and increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses to better
determine the appropriate capital requirement for such structured securities. These methodologies result in an improved NAIC Designation for such securities compared to the rating typically assigned
by the three major rating agencies. The following tables summarize the ratings distribution of our fixed maturity security portfolio by NAIC Designation, and the distribution by composite AIG credit
rating, which is generally based on ratings of the three major rating agencies. See Investments   Credit Ratings herein for a full description of the composite AIG credit
ratings.   

   The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio of AIG Life and Retirement categorized by NAIC Designation, at fair value:     

*   Excludes
$449 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available because they are not held in legal entities within AIG Life and
Retirement that require a statutory filing.   

The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio of AIG Life and Retirement categorized by composite AIG credit
rating, at fair value:     

*   Excludes
$449 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available because they are not held in legal entities within AIG Life and
Retirement that require a statutory filing.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
114  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

Yield and Net Investment Income

Overall,
our yields declined in 2013 as investment purchases were made at yields lower than the weighted average yield of the existing portfolio. In 2012, the impact of
lower yields on new purchases was largely offset by reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short-term investments during 2011. During prolonged periods of low or declining interest rates, we
generally must invest new net flows and reinvest the cash flows from investment sales, interest and maturities of our portfolio in lower yielding securities.   

  Opportunistic
investments in structured securities, private placement corporate debt securities and commercial mortgage loans continue to be made to improve yields, increase net investment income and
help to offset the impact of the lower interest rate environment.   

  We
maintain investment portfolios for each product line which, to the extent practicable, match established duration targets based on the characteristics of our liabilities. We allocate net investment
income from assets that support liabilities to the product line they support. Net investment income from investments in excess of liabilities, which include the majority of our alternative
investments, is allocated to the product lines using a capital-based internal allocation model.   

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

Net Investment Income   

  Net investment income increased slightly in 2013 compared to 2012, as reinvestment in the low interest rate environment resulted in a 13 basis point decrease in the base
portfolio yield in 2013, which was offset by growth in average assets from positive net flows, a $613 million increase in alternative investment income and a $50 million increase in call
and tender income. The increase in alternative investment yield to almost 16 percent in 2013 from approximately 10 percent in 2012 reflected higher hedge fund income due to favorable
equity market conditions and several large redemptions from hedge funds that are not accounted for using the equity method. This increase in alternative investment income was partially offset by
decreases in other investment income enhancement items in 2013, which included net fair value losses of $23 million in 2013 from our investment in PICC Group compared to gains of
$57 million in 2012; a $38 million decrease in accretion of discount for certain highly rated structured securities, driven by recent increases in market interest rates; and fair value
gains of $246 million recognized in 2012 on our investment in ML II, which was liquidated in March 2012 when we received a distribution of $1.6 billion from the sale by the FRBNY of the
securities held in ML II.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Net investment income increased in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting higher base portfolio yields of 9 basis points due to the reinvestment of
significant amounts of cash and short-term investments during 2011, opportunistic investments in structured securities, fair value gains on MLII and other structured securities, a fair value gain of
approximately $57 million on the investment in PICC Group, lower impairment charges on investments in leased commercial aircraft and higher returns on alternative investments.   

Spread Management   

  The contractual provisions for renewal of crediting rates and guaranteed minimum crediting rates included in our products may have the effect, in a continued low interest
rate environment, of reducing our spreads and thus reducing future profitability. Although we partially mitigate this interest rate risk through our asset-liability management process, product design
elements and crediting rate strategies, a prolonged low interest rate environment may negatively affect future profitability.   

   Disciplined pricing on new business    resulted in lower new fixed annuity deposits in the first six months of 2013 relative to the same period in 2012,
due to the relatively low crediting rates offered. However, deposits improved in the latter half of 2013 due to the modest increases in market interest rates, resulting in an overall increase in
deposits for 2013 compared to 2012. In the historically low interest rate environment experienced in 2013 and 2012, we have continued to pursue new sales of life and annuity products at targeted net
investment spreads. We have a dynamic product management process to ensure that new business offerings appropriately reflect the current interest rate environment. To the extent that we cannot achieve
targeted net investment spreads on new business, products   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
115  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

  are
re-priced or no longer sold. Additionally, current products with higher minimum rate guarantees have been re-filed with lower rates as permitted under state insurance product regulations.   

New sales of fixed annuity products generally have minimum interest rate guarantees of
1 percent.  
           Universal life insurance interest rate guarantees are generally 2 to 3 percent on new non-indexed products and zero
to 2 percent on new indexed products, and are designed to be sufficient to meet targeted net investment spreads. We are in the process of lowering the minimum guaranteed interest rates on new
products, and expect this process to be substantially completed in 2014.    

   Active management of renewal crediting rates    is done under contractual provisions in our annuity and universal life products that were designed to allow
crediting rates to be reset at pre-established intervals subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. We have adjusted, and will continue to adjust, crediting rates to maintain targeted net
investment spreads on both new business and in-force business where crediting rates are above minimum guarantees. In addition to annuity and universal life products, certain traditional long-duration
products for which we do not have the ability to adjust interest rates, such as payout annuities, are exposed to reduced earnings and potential loss recognition reserve increases in a prolonged low
interest rate environment. See AIG Life and Retirement Reserves and DAC   Other Reserve Changes for additional discussion of loss recognition.   

  Included
in 2012 was an additional $110 million of interest credited expense resulting from a comprehensive review of reserves for the GIC portfolio.   

As
indicated in the table below, approximately 73 percent of our annuity and universal life account values were at their minimum crediting rates as of December 31, 2013, an increase from
63 percent at December 31, 2012. These
products have minimum guaranteed interest rates as of December 31, 2013 ranging from 1 percent to 5.5 percent, with the higher rates representing guarantees on older products.   

The following table presents our universal life and fixed annuity account values by contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate and current crediting rates:     

*   Fixed
annuities include fixed options within variable annuities sold in Group Retirement and Retirement Income Solutions product lines.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
116  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

Changes in Fair Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Designated to Hedge Living Benefits Liabilities

Changes
in fair value of fixed maturity securities designated to hedge living benefit liabilities, which are excluded from Pre-tax operating income, are a component of AIG
Life and Retirement's dynamic hedging program designed to manage economic risk exposure associated with changes in equity markets, interest rates and volatilities related to embedded derivative
liabilities contained in guaranteed benefit features of variable annuities. We substantially hedge our exposure to equity markets, and the majority of our interest rate exposure is hedged with
derivative instruments and, to a lesser extent, with U.S. Treasury bonds that we began purchasing in 2012 as a capital-efficient strategy to reduce our interest rate risk exposure over time. As a
result of increases in interest rates on U.S. Treasury bonds during 2013, the fair value of the U.S. Treasury bonds used for hedging, net of financing costs, decreased by $161 million in 2013,
compared to an increase in fair value of $37 million in 2012.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

Net
realized capital gains increased in 2013 and 2012 compared to 2011 as a result of higher gains from sales activity in connection with utilizing capital loss
carryforwards, lower other-than-temporary impairments, and fair value gains on embedded derivatives, net of hedges, which had net gains of $31 million in 2013, compared to net losses of
$799 million in 2012 and $242 million in 2011. The changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives, net of hedges, were primarily due to changes in projected interest rates and equity
market returns.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
117  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

AIG Life and Retirement Reserves and DAC

The following table presents AIG Life and Retirement insurance reserves and mutual fund assets under management:     

*   Other
reserve changes include loss recognition in Retail of $135 million and $189 million, and in Institutional of $1.3 billion and
$1.0 billion, in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
118  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

Other Reserve Changes

Other
reserve changes in the table above include loss recognition, primarily on certain long-term payout annuity contracts. In connection with our program to utilize capital
loss carryforwards, we sold investment securities in 2013 and 2012. These and other investment sales with subsequent reinvestment at lower
yields triggered recording of loss recognition reserves of $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion on certain long-term payout annuity contracts in 2013 and 2012, respectively. There were loss
recognition reserves related to unrealized appreciation of investments as of December 31, 2011, but no actual loss recognition recorded in 2011. Assumptions related to investment yields,
mortality experience and expenses are reviewed periodically and updated as appropriate, which could also result in additional loss recognition reserves.   

Loss
recognition attributable to our program to utilize capital loss carryforwards is excluded from Pre-tax operating income and reported within Changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA and SIA
related to net realized capital gains (losses) in the AIG Life and Retirement Results table herein. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Critical Accounting
Estimates   Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts (AIG Life and Retirement) for additional information on loss recognition.   

DAC and Reserves Related to Unrealized Appreciation of Investments

DAC
for investment-oriented products is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the change in DAC as if fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale had
been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. The change in DAC related to unrealized appreciation of investments generally moves in the opposite
direction of the changes in unrealized appreciation of the available for sale securities portfolio. When market interest rates rose in 2013, the fair value and unrealized appreciation of the portfolio
decreased, resulting in an increase in DAC. In 2012 and 2011, when interest rates were declining and unrealized gains in the portfolio increased, DAC and reserves related to unrealized appreciation
decreased.   

DAC Rollforward

The following table summarizes the major components of the changes in AIG Life and Retirement DAC:     

*   Balance
excluding the amount related to unrealized appreciation of investments was $7.8 billion, $7.5 billion and $7.9 billion at December 31,
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Estimated Gross Profits for Investment-Oriented Products     

  Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life and investment-type products (collectively, investment-oriented
products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over a period that approximates the estimated lives of the contracts.
Estimated gross profits include net investment income and spreads, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality gains and losses. If the assumptions used
for estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC and related reserves are recalculated using the new assumptions, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. Updating such assumptions may
result in acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other products. See Critical Accounting Estimates   Estimated Gross Profits for
Investment-Oriented Products (AIG Life and Retirement) for additional information on these assumptions.   

  Pre-tax
operating income in 2013 included a net increase of $153 million from adjustments to update certain gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items in our
investment-oriented product lines. These   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
119  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / AIG LIFE AND RETIREMENT    

  adjustments
resulted from our comprehensive annual review and update of estimated gross profit assumptions, and from a change in long-term asset growth rate assumptions for Group Retirement variable
annuity products, which was driven by sustained favorable equity market performance.   

  The
result of the comprehensive annual review, which was completed in the third quarter of 2013, was a $118 million net increase in Pre-tax operating income in 2013, which included a
$198 million net increase in our Retail operating segment and an $80 million decrease in our Institutional operating segment. The net increase in Retail pre-tax operating income was
primarily due to a favorable adjustment in our Fixed Annuities product line from updated spread assumptions due to active management of crediting rates and higher future investment yields than those
previously assumed. In the Life Insurance and A H, Retirement Income Solutions and Group Retirement product lines, the update of assumptions for variable annuity spreads, surrender rates, and life
insurance mortality had an unfavorable impact on pre-tax operating income. The life insurance mortality assumptions, while unfavorable compared to the previous assumption set, are still within pricing
expectations.   

  The
$118 million increase in pre-tax operating income to reflect updated assumptions was comprised of a $98 million net decrease in DAC amortization expense, a $61 million
decrease in SIA amortization expense within Interest credited to policyholder account balances, and a $28 million increase in unearned revenue amortization within Policy fees, partially offset
by a $69 million increase in Future policy benefits for life and health insurance contracts.   

  In
estimating future gross profits for variable annuity products, a long-term annual asset growth assumption is applied to estimate the future growth in assets and related asset-based fees. In
determining the asset growth rate, the effect of short-term fluctuations in the equity markets is partially mitigated through the use of a "reversion to the mean" methodology, whereby short-term asset
growth above or below the long-term annual rate assumption will impact the growth assumption applied to the five-year period subsequent to the current balance sheet date. In the fourth quarter of
2013, we revised the growth rate assumptions for the five-year reversion to the mean period for the Group Retirement product line in our Institutional segment. This adjustment, which increased DAC by
$31 million, increased SIA by $2 million and reduced the GMDB liability by $2 million, was recorded as a decrease in current period amortization expense and increased our Retail
pre-tax operating income by $35 million in 2013. For variable annuities in our Retirement Income Solutions product line, the assumed annual growth rate remained above zero percent for the
five-year reversion to the mean period and therefore did not meet our criteria for adjustment; however, additional favorable equity market performance in excess of long-term assumptions could result
in "unlocking" in this product line in the future with a positive effect on pre-tax income in the period of the unlocking.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
120  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

OTHER OPERATIONS

Other Operations Results

The following table presents AIG's Other Operations results:     

(a)  Includes
$263 million of severance expense attributable to AIG Property Casualty.   

  (b)  Reflects
income from settlements with financial institutions that participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS from which AIG and its subsidiaries realized losses during
the financial crisis.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
121  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

Mortgage Guaranty Results

The following table presents Mortgage Guaranty results:     

(a)  Based
on number of policies.   

  (b)  Represents
the full amount of second-lien loans insured reduced for contractual aggregate loss limits on certain pools of loans, usually 10 percent of the full amount of loans
insured in each pool. Certain second-lien pools have reinstatement provisions, which will expire as the loan balances are repaid.   

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

  Pre-tax operating income in 2013 increased compared to the prior year due to improved underwriting income as a result of an increase in net premiums
earned in the first-lien business, and decreases in
claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred. Partially offsetting these increases were declines in net premiums earned in second-lien, student loan and international businesses, all of which were
placed into run-off during 2008, and an increase in underwriting expenses related to higher volumes of new business.   

  The
first-lien net premiums earned increased $127 million resulting from a 32 percent growth of the book of business and a decline in premium refunds as a result of lower rescissions
during 2013 compared to 2012. The decline in claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred reflected decreases in first-lien and student loan claims and claims   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
122  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

adjustment
expenses of $157 million and $22 million, respectively, which were partially offset by a $34 million increase in second-lien and international claims and claims
adjustment expenses. The decline in first-lien claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred was primarily the result of lower newly reported delinquencies and higher cure rates, which were partially
offset by $46 million of unfavorable prior year development in 2013 compared to unfavorable prior year development of $17 million in 2012. The decline in student loan claims and claims
adjustment expenses reflect recoveries on prior paid losses and the commutation of a significant portion of the business in early 2013. Second-lien claims and claims adjustment expenses increased
primarily due to increased overturns of previously denied claims. International claims adjustment expense increased due to increases to reserves as the portfolio continued to run-off.   

  New
insurance written, which represents the original principal balance of the insured mortgages, increased 33 percent due to elevated levels of refinancing activity during 2013 and the
acceptance of UGC's risk-based pricing model by approximately 300 new lenders.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Mortgage Guaranty recorded pre-tax operating income in 2012 compared to a pre-tax operating loss in 2011. The decrease in claims and claims
adjustment expenses reflected decreases in first and second-lien businesses partially offset by an increase in international claims and claims adjustment expenses. Claims and claims adjustment
expenses in 2012 included favorable prior year loss development in second liens, student loans, and international business, partially offset by unfavorable development in first liens. The decrease in
first-lien claims and claims adjustment expenses reflected lower levels of newly reported delinquencies, an improvement in the cure rate and lower unfavorable loss development in 2012 compared to
2011. The unfavorable development in 2012 resulted from delinquencies for which claim requests were not made, partially offset by favorable development arising from the claims requests sent to
lenders. The decline in second-lien business claims and claims adjustment expenses reflected a decrease in claims and claims adjustment expenses paid as more business reached the respective stop loss
limits. The increased claims and claims adjustment expenses in the international business reflected a reduction in claim reserves in 2011 due to a settlement of certain delinquencies with a major
European lender.   

  These
items were partially offset by a decline in first-lien net premiums earned, reflecting higher premium refunds due to the rescissions arising from the claims requests sent to lenders during the
fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing throughout 2012. Additionally, net premiums earned declined on second-lien and international businesses, both of which were placed into run-off during 2008.
Underwriting expenses increased driven primarily by an increase in underwriting, sales and product initiatives, all of which supported the increase in new insurance written for the year.   

New
insurance written was approximately $37 billion and $19 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in new insurance written was the result of the market acceptance by
lenders of UGC's risk-based pricing model and withdrawal of certain competitors from the market during 2011.   

Global Capital Markets Results

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

  GCM's pre-tax income and pre-tax operating income increased in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to an improvement in net credit valuation
adjustments on derivative assets and liabilities, partially offset by a decline in unrealized market valuation gains related to the super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio and an increase in
operating expenses.   

  Net
credit valuation adjustment gains of $195 million were recognized in 2013 compared to net credit valuation adjustment losses of $30 million in 2012. The improvement resulted
primarily from lower losses on derivative liabilities due to less significant tightening of AIG's credit spreads in 2013 compared to 2012 and higher gains on derivative assets due to more significant
tightening of counterparty credit spreads in 2013 compared to 2012.   

  Unrealized
market valuation gains on the CDS portfolio of $550 million and $617 million were recognized in 2013 and 2012, respectively. The decline resulted primarily from amortization,
price movements, terminations and maturities within the CDS portfolio.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
123  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  GCM reported pre-tax income and pre-tax operating income in 2012 compared to pre-tax loss and pre-tax operating loss in 2011 primarily due to
improvement in unrealized market valuations related to the super senior CDS portfolio, a decrease in operating expenses and lower costs related to the wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios.   

Unrealized
market valuation gains on the CDS portfolio of $617 million and $339 million were recognized in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The improvement resulted primarily from
amortization and price movements within the CDS portfolio. For 2012, the remaining portfolio of AIGFP continued to be wound down and was managed consistent with AIG's risk management objectives. The
active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011.   

Direct Investment Book Results

The following table presents Direct Investment book results:     

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

  DIB pre-tax income decreased in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a one-time realized capital gain of $426 million recorded in 2012 on
the sale of 35.7 million common units of The Blackstone Group L.P., partially offset by improvements in pre-tax operating income. DIB pre-tax operating income increased in 2013 compared
to 2012 primarily due to fair value appreciation on ABS CDOs that were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2012, partially offset by a decline in net credit valuation adjustments on assets and
liabilities for which the fair value option was elected.   

  Fair
value appreciation on ABS CDOs was $954 million for 2013 driven primarily by improved collateral pricing due to improvements in home price indices and amortization of the underlying
collateral.   

  Net
credit valuation adjustment gains of $444 million and $789 million were recognized for 2013 and 2012, respectively. The decrease resulted primarily from a decline in the portfolio
size due to sales and maturities as well as lower gains on assets due to less significant tightening of counterparty credit spreads, partially offset by lower losses on liabilities due to less
significant tightening of AIG's credit spreads in 2013 compared to 2012.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  DIB pre-tax income increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a capital gain on the sale of common units of The Blackstone Group L.P.
mentioned above and improvements in pre-tax operating income. DIB pre-tax operating income increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to improvement in net credit valuation adjustments on assets
and liabilities for which the fair value option was elected. Net credit valuation adjustment gains of $789 million and $380 million were recognized for 2012 and 2011, respectively. The
improvement resulted primarily from gains on assets due to the tightening of counterparty credit spreads, partially offset by losses on liabilities due to the tightening of AIG's credit spreads.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
124  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

The following table presents credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) for the DIB (excluding intercompany transactions):     

Retained Interests

Change in Fair Value of AIA Securities Prior to Their Sale   

  We sold our remaining 33 percent interest in AIA ordinary shares for proceeds of $14.5 billion and a net gain of $2.1 billion through three sale
transactions on March 7, September 11 and December 20, 2012.   

  We
recognized a $1.3 billion gain in 2011, representing a 12 percent increase in the value of AIG's then 33 percent interest in AIA, which was recorded in Other invested assets
and accounted for under the fair value option.   

Change in Fair Value of ML III Prior to Liquidation   

  The gains attributable to AIG's interest in ML III for 2012 were based in part on the completion of the final auction of ML III assets by the FRBNY, in the third quarter of
2012.   

  The
loss attributable to AIG's interest in ML III for 2011 was due to significant spread widening and reduced interest rates.   

Change in the Fair Value of the MetLife Securities Prior to Their Sale   

We recognized a loss in 2011, representing the decline in the securities' value, due to market conditions, from December 31, 2010 through the date of their sale in
the first quarter of 2011.   

Corporate and Other Results

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

  Corporate   Other reported an increase in pre-tax operating losses in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to severance charges in 2013 of
$265 million as a result of centralizing work streams to lower-cost locations and creating a more streamlined organization, and higher incentive compensation costs. These increases were
partially offset by lower interest expense due to various debt reduction activities described in Liquidity and Capital Resources. In addition, Corporate expenses, net in 2012 included reductions in
expenses of $211 million, from the decrease in the estimate of the liability for the Department of the Treasury's underwriting fees in connection with the sales of AIG Common Stock.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Corporate   Other reported lower operating losses in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a reduction in expense of $211 million in
2012 resulting from settlements of the liability for the Department of the Treasury's underwriting fees for the sale of AIG Common Stock at amounts lower than had been estimated at the time the
accrual was established, and AIG purchased a significant amount of shares for which no payment to the underwriters was   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
125  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

required,
and a decline in interest expense as a result of the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility and the exchange of outstanding junior subordinated debentures for senior unsecured notes in 2011.   

  Other
non-core businesses declined due to lower gains on real estate dispositions and higher equity losses on real estate investments in 2012 compared to 2011.   

Legal Reserves

Legal
reserves relate to increased estimated litigation liability based on developments in several actions.   

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt

The
increase in loss on extinguishment of debt in 2013 compared to the prior year resulted from redemptions and repurchases of, and cash tender offers for, certain debt
securities in 2013. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2011 includes a $3.3 billion charge primarily consisting of the accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset
resulting from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

Aircraft Leasing Results

The following table presents Aircraft Leasing results:     

2013 and 2012 Comparison     

  Aircraft Leasing reported a pre-tax loss in 2013 compared to pre-tax income in 2012, primarily due to certain adjustments to ILFC's assets and
liabilities classified as held for sale. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding Aircraft Leasing.   

2012 and 2011 Comparison     

  Aircraft Leasing reported pre-tax income in 2012 compared to a pre-tax loss in 2011 primarily due to a decrease in impairment charges, fair value
adjustments and lease-related charges on aircraft and lower losses on extinguishment of debt. This was partially offset by lower lease revenue and increased costs due to early returns of aircraft by
lessees who ceased operations, lower lease revenue earned on re-leased aircraft in ILFC's fleet, charges relating to   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
126  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / RESULTS OF OPERATIONS / OTHER OPERATIONS    

reserves
recorded for potential exposure under aircraft assets value guarantees and an increase in depreciation expense due to the change in depreciable lives and residual value of certain aircraft.   

Net Loss on Sale of Divested Businesses

In
2012, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $6.7 billion associated with the announced sale of ILFC.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

Includes
impairments on investments in life settlements of $971 million, $309 million and $312 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Also
included in 2012 is a $426 million gain on the sale of common units of The Blackstone Group L.P. Impairments on investments in life settlements increased in 2013 compared to 2012 as a
result of updated longevity assumptions in the valuation tables used to estimate future expected cash flows. These updates were due to observed experience deviating significantly compared to prior
expectations.   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations is comprised of the following:     

Significant items affecting the comparison of results from discontinued operations included the following:  

a pre-tax gain of $150 million for 2013 in connection with the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO)
primarily attributable to the refund of taxes, interest and penalties, together with other matters;   
           a gain on the sale of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company
(AIG Edison) in 2011;   
           tax effects of the above transactions, notably the impact of non-deductible goodwill impairment and the change in
investment in subsidiaries, which was principally related to changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the planned sales.    

  See
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of discontinued operations.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
127  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Overview

Liquidity    refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet our payment obligations. It is defined as cash and unencumbered assets
that can be monetized in a short period of time at a reasonable cost. We manage our liquidity prudently through various risk committees, policies and procedures, and a stress testing and liquidity
framework established by Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). Our liquidity framework is designed to measure both the amount and composition of our liquidity to meet financial obligations in both normal
and stressed markets. See Enterprise Risk Management   Risk Appetite, Identification, and Measurement and   Enterprise Risk Management  
Liquidity Risk Management below for additional information.   

   Capital    refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operation of our businesses, fund business growth, and cover financial and
operational needs that arise from adverse circumstances. Our primary source of ongoing capital generation is the profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. We and our insurance subsidiaries must
comply with numerous constraints on our minimum capital positions. These constraints drive the requirements for capital adequacy for both AIG and the individual businesses and are based on
internally-defined risk tolerances, regulatory requirements, rating agency and creditor expectations and business needs. Actual capital levels are monitored on a regular basis, and using ERM's stress
testing methodology, we evaluate the capital impact of potential macroeconomic, financial and insurance stresses in relation to the relevant capital constraints of both AIG and our insurance
subsidiaries.   

  We
believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy future requirements and meet our obligations to policyholders, customers, creditors and debt-holders, including reasonably
foreseeable contingencies or events.   

  Nevertheless,
some circumstances may cause our cash or capital needs to exceed projected liquidity or readily deployable capital resources. Additional collateral calls, deterioration in investment
portfolios or reserve strengthening affecting statutory surplus, higher surrenders of annuities and other policies, downgrades in credit ratings, or catastrophic losses may result in significant
additional cash or capital needs and loss of sources of liquidity and capital. In addition, regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from
our subsidiaries.   

  Depending
on market conditions, regulatory and rating agency considerations and other factors, we may take various liability and capital management actions. Liability management actions may include,
but are not limited, to repurchasing or redeeming outstanding debt, issuing new debt or engaging in debt exchange offers. Capital management actions may include, but are not limited to, paying
dividends to our shareholders and share repurchases.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
128  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

Liquidity and Capital Resources Highlights 2013     
  
      Sources     

AIG Parent Funding from Subsidiaries     
     We
collected $8.7 billion in cash dividends and loan repayments from our insurance subsidiaries   $4.1 billion in cash dividends from AIG Property Casualty,
$4.4 billion in cash dividends and loan repayments from AIG Life and Retirement and $90 million in cash dividends from Mortgage Guaranty. Infrequent events at our insurance subsidiaries
including capital management initiatives at AIG Property Casualty and proceeds from legal settlements at AIG Life and Retirement resulted in higher than usual dividends.   

          Legal Settlements     
     On
August 26, 2013, we agreed to the termination of an interest rate swap agreement with Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. and Brysons International, Ltd, in exchange for a
payment to AIGFP of $905 million. 

We
received $1.0 billion from settlements with financial institutions that participated in the creation, offering and sale of RMBS from which we realized losses during the financial crisis.   

          Debt Issuances     
     On
August 9, 2013, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior notes due 2020. On October 2, 2013, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount
of 4.125% senior notes due 2024.   

          ALICO Escrow Release     
    On
May 1, 2013, $547 million held in escrow to secure indemnifications provided to MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) under the ALICO stock purchase agreement was released to AIG.   

Uses     

Debt Reduction*     
     We
repaid approximately $9.7 billion of debt as follows. 

We
redeemed:  

        $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 7.70% Series A-5 Junior Subordinated Debentures and
$750 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.45% Series A-4 Junior Subordinated Debentures, in each case for a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount,
plus accrued and unpaid interest; and   
           $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.650% senior notes due 2014 for a redemption price of
101.1 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
         We
purchased, in cash tender offers:  
           for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1 billion, approximately 77 million British pounds
aggregate principal amount of our 8.625% Series A-8 Junior Subordinated Debentures, approximately 182 million Euro aggregate principal amount of our 8.000%
Series A-7 Junior Subordinated Debentures, approximately $79 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.25% Series A-1 Junior Subordinated Debentures and
approximately $366 million aggregate principal amount of our 8.175% Series A-6 Junior Subordinated Debentures;   
           for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $211 million, approximately $19 million liquidation amount
of 8 1 / 2 % Capital Trust Pass-Through Securities, approximately $114 million liquidation amount of 7.57% Capital Securities, Series A and approximately $29 million
liquidation amount of 8 1 / 8 % Capital Securities, Series B, all of which were issued by statutory trusts controlled by AIG Life Holdings, Inc; and   
           for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $61 million, approximately $62 million aggregate principal
amount of 5.60% Senior Debentures we had assumed that were originally issued by SunAmerica Inc.    

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
129  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

We
also made other repayments of approximately $6.3 billion. AIG Parent repaid $4.2 billion of debt, including $1.1 billion
of MIP and $300 million of Series AIGFP long-term debt, and made interest payments on our debt instruments totaling $2.0 billion.   
             Purchase of Warrants     
    We
paid approximately $25 million in the first quarter 2013 in the aggregate to purchase a warrant issued to the Department of the Treasury in 2008 that provided the right to purchase
approximately 2.7 million shares of AIG Common Stock at $50.00 per share and a warrant issued to the Department of the Treasury in 2009 that provided the right to purchase up to 150 shares of
AIG Common Stock at $0.00002 per share.   

          Dividends     
    We
paid cash dividends of $0.10 per share on AIG Common Stock in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2013.   

          Repurchase of Common Stock     
     We
repurchased a total of approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock in the third and fourth quarters of 2013, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $597 million.   

          AIG Parent Funding to Subsidiaries     
    We
made $2.1 billion in net capital contributions to subsidiaries, including a contribution of approximately $1.9 billion to AIG Capital Corporation related to the transfer of
investments in life settlements from AIG Property Casualty. 

AIG
Parent repaid $0.5 billion of its $1.1 billion outstanding loan from ILFC in the fourth quarter of 2013.   

*     In January 2014, AIG reduced DIB debt by $2.2 billion through a redemption of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of its 4.250%
Notes due 2014 and a repurchase of $1.0 billion of its 8.25% Notes due 2018 using cash and short term investments allocated to the DIB.   

Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash

The following table presents selected data from AIG's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:     

(a)  Includes
return of cash from ALICO escrow arrangement.   

  (b)  Includes
payment of two quarterly cash dividends.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
130  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

   The following table presents a summary of AIG's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:   

Operating Cash Flow Activities

Interest
payments totaled $3.9 billion in 2013 compared to $4.0 billion in 2012. Excluding interest payments, AIG generated positive operating cash flow of
$9.7 billion and $7.7 billion in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  Insurance
companies generally receive most premiums in advance of the payment of claims or policy benefits. The ability of insurance companies to generate positive cash flow is affected by the
frequency and severity of losses under their insurance policies, policy retention rates and operating expenses.   

  Cash
provided by AIG Property Casualty operating activities was $0.4 billion in 2013 compared to $1.1 billion in 2012, primarily reflecting the timing of the payments related to
catastrophe losses.   

  Cash
provided by AIG Life and Retirement operating activities was $4.3 billion in 2013 compared to $2.9 billion in 2012, primarily due to higher pre-tax operating income and the receipt
of approximately $800 million of legal settlement proceeds in 2013.   

  Cash
provided by operating activities of business held for sale was $2.9 billion for each of 2013 and 2012.   

  Net
cash provided by operating activities improved in 2012 compared to 2011, principally due to cash paid for interest in 2011 by AIG Parent of $6.4 billion in accrued compounded interest and
fees under the FRBNY Credit Facility, partially offset by a decline in cash provided by operating activities of foreign life subsidiaries of $3.4 billion due to the sale of those subsidiaries
(AIA, ALICO, AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, LTD. (Nan Shan)) in 2011.   

Investing Cash Flow Activities

Net
cash provided by investing activities for 2013 includes approximately $0.9 billion of cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program
launched during 2012 by AIG Life and Retirement.   

  Net
cash provided by investing activities for 2012 includes:  

payments received relating to the sale of the underlying assets held by ML II of approximately $1.6 billion;    
           payments of approximately $8.5 billion received in connection with the dispositions of ML III assets by the FRBNY;    
           gross proceeds of approximately $14.5 billion from the sale of AIA ordinary shares; and    
           approximately $2.1 billion of cash collateral received in connection with the securities lending program launched
during 2012 by AIG Life and Retirement.    

  Net
cash provided by investing activities for 2011 includes:  

the utilization of $26.4 billion of restricted cash generated from the AIA initial public offering and ALICO sale
in connection with the Recapitalization and $9.6 billion from the disposition of MetLife securities;   
           the sale of AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan in 2011 for total proceeds of $6.4 billion; and    
           net sales of short term investments and maturities of available for sale investments, primarily at AIG Property Casualty
and AIG Life and Retirement, which were partially offset by purchases of available for sale investments.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
131  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

Financing Cash Flow Activities

Net
cash used in financing activities for 2013 includes:  

approximately $294 million in the aggregate to pay dividends of $0.10 per share on AIG Common Stock in each of the
third and fourth quarters of 2013;   
           approximately $597 million to repurchase approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock; and    
           approximately $9.3 billion to repay long term debt; see Debt   Debt Maturities below.    
           approximately $4.9 billion in repayments of long term debt of business held-for-sale.    

Net
cash used in financing activities for 2012 includes:  

$8.6 billion to pay down the Department of the Treasury's preferred interests (AIA SPV Preferred Interests) in the
special purpose vehicle holding the AIA ordinary shares; and   
           total payments of approximately $13.0 billion for the purchase of shares of AIG Common Stock.    

  Net
cash used in financing activities for 2011 primarily includes repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility and the $12.4 billion partial repayment of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests and the ALICO
SPV in connection with the Recapitalization and use of proceeds received from the sales of foreign life insurance entities in 2011.   

Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries

AIG Parent

As
of December 31, 2013, AIG Parent had approximately $17.6 billion in liquidity sources. AIG Parent's liquidity sources are held in the form of cash,
short-term investments and publicly traded, intermediate-term investment grade rated fixed maturity securities. Fixed maturity securities consist of U.S. government and government sponsored entity
securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, and corporate and municipal bonds. AIG Parent actively manages its assets and liabilities in terms of products, counterparties and duration. During
2013, upon an assessment of its immediate and longer-term funding needs, AIG Parent purchased publicly traded, intermediate-term investment grade rated fixed maturity securities that can be readily
monetized through sales or repurchase agreements. These securities allow us to diversify sources of liquidity while reducing the cost of maintaining sufficient liquidity. AIG Parent liquidity sources
are monitored through the use of various internal liquidity risk measures. AIG Parent's primary sources of liquidity are dividends, distributions, loans, and other payments from subsidiaries, as well
as credit and contingent liquidity facilities. AIG Parent's primary uses of liquidity are for debt service, capital and liability management, operating expenses and subsidiary capital needs.   

  AIG
Parent has unconditional capital maintenance agreements (CMAs) in place with certain AIG Property Casualty, AIG Life and Retirement and Mortgage Guaranty subsidiaries to facilitate the transfer of
capital and liquidity within AIG. On February 18, 2014, certain of these CMAs were recharacterized as capital support agreements as a result of our intention to manage capital flows between AIG
Parent and its subsidiaries through internal, Board-approved policies and guidelines rather than CMAs. See AIG Property Casualty, AIG Life and Retirement and Other Operations  
Mortgage Guaranty below for additional details regarding CMAs that we have entered into with our insurance subsidiaries. Nevertheless, regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit our ability
to transfer capital freely, either to or from our subsidiaries.   

  We
believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy our reasonably foreseeable future requirements and meet our obligations to our creditors, debt-holders and insurance
company subsidiaries. We expect to access the debt markets from time to time to meet funding requirements as needed.   

  We
utilize our capital resources to support our businesses, with the majority of capital allocated to our core insurance operations. Should we have or generate more capital than is needed to support
our business strategies (including organic growth or acquisition opportunities) or mitigate risks inherent to our business, we may develop plans to distribute such capital to shareholders via dividend
or share repurchase authorizations or deploy such capital towards liability management.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
132  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

  In
the normal course, it is expected that a portion of the capital generated by our core insurance operations through earnings or through the utilization of AIG's deferred tax assets may be available
for distribution to shareholders. Additionally, it is expected that capital associated with businesses or investments that do not directly support our core insurance operations may be available for
distribution to shareholders or deployment towards liability management upon their monetization.   

  In
developing plans to distribute capital, AIG considers a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the capital resources available to support our core insurance operations and business
strategies, AIG's funding capacity and capital resources in comparison to internal benchmarks, expectations for capital generation, rating agency expectations for capital, as well as regulatory
standards for capital and capital distributions.   

   The following table presents AIG Parent's liquidity sources:   

(a)  Cash
and short-term investments include reverse repurchase agreements totaling $6.9 billion and $8.9 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  (b)  $5.9 billion
and $4.6 billion of cash and short-term investments as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, are allocated toward future maturities of
liabilities and contingent liquidity stress needs of DIB and GCM.   

(c)  Unencumbered
securities consist of publicly traded, intermediate-term investment grade rated fixed maturity securities. Fixed maturity securities consist of U.S. government and
government sponsored entity securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, and corporate and municipal bonds.   

  (d)  For
additional information relating to this syndicated credit facility, see Credit Facilities below.   

  (e)  For
additional information relating to the contingent liquidity facility, see Contingent Liquidity Facilities below.   

AIG Property Casualty

We
expect that AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy reasonably foreseeable future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations,
including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations, portfolio interest, scheduled investment maturities and, to the extent necessary,
monetization of invested assets. AIG Property Casualty's subsidiaries' liquidity resources are held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed
maturity securities.   

  National
Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (NUFI) is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Pittsburgh, AIG Specialty Insurance Company (ASI) is a member of the FHLB of Chicago
and Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington) is a member of the FHLB of Boston. FHLB membership provides participants with access to various services, including access to low-cost advances through
pledging of certain mortgage-backed securities, government and agency securities and other qualifying assets. These advances may be used to provide
an additional source of liquidity for balance sheet management or contingency funding purposes. As of December 31, 2013, there were no FHLB advances outstanding for NUFI, CSI or Lexington.   

  AIG
Property Casualty's subsidiaries may require additional funding to meet capital or liquidity needs under certain circumstances.   

  Large
catastrophes may require AIG to provide additional support to our affected operations. Downgrades in AIG's credit ratings could put pressure on the insurer financial strength ratings of AIG's
subsidiaries, which could result in non-renewals or cancellations by policyholders and adversely affect the subsidiary's ability to meet its own obligations. Increases in market interest rates may
adversely affect the financial strength ratings of our subsidiaries, as rating agency capital models may reduce the amount of available capital relative to required capital. Other potential events
that could cause a liquidity strain include an economic collapse of a nation or region significant to   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
133  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

  our
operations, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, pandemics or other events causing economic or political upheaval.   

  AIG
Parent and Ascot Corporate Name Limited (ACNL), an AIG Property Casualty subsidiary, are parties to a $625 million letter of credit facility. ACNL, as a member of the Lloyd's of London
insurance syndicate (Lloyd's), is required to hold capital at Lloyd's, known as Funds at Lloyds (FAL). Under the facility, which supports the 2013, 2014 and 2015 years of account, the entire
FAL requirement of $600 million, as of December 31, 2013, was satisfied with a letter of credit issued under the facility.   

  AIG
Parent, AIG Property Casualty Inc. and certain AIG Property Casualty domestic insurance subsidiaries are parties to a consolidated CMA. Among other things, the CMA provides that AIG Parent
will maintain the total adjusted capital of these AIG Property Casualty insurance subsidiaries, measured as a group (the Fleet), at or above the specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's projected
total authorized control level Risk-Based Capital (RBC). In addition, the CMA provided that if the total adjusted capital of the Fleet exceeds that same specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's
total authorized control level RBC, subject to approval by their respective boards, and compliance with applicable insurance laws, the AIG Property Casualty insurance subsidiaries would declare and
pay ordinary dividends to their respective equity holders up to an amount necessary to reduce the Fleet's projected or actual total adjusted capital to a level equal to or not materially greater than
such specified minimum percentage. On February 18, 2014, the CMA was recharacterized as a capital support agreement and amended to remove the exclusion of deferred tax assets from the
calculation of total adjusted capital and remove the dividend requirement of the Fleet. The specified minimum percentage in the CMA was also reduced from 325 percent to 300 percent. AIG
will continue to manage capital flows between AIG Parent and the AIG Property Casualty insurance subsidiaries through internal, Board-approved policies and guidelines.   

AIG
Property Casualty paid cash and non-cash dividends totaling $4.3 billion to AIG Parent in 2013, including $2.6 billion of cash dividends in the fourth quarter of 2013. For the years
ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, AIG Parent received approximately $4.3 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, in dividends from AIG Property Casualty Inc.
that were made under the CMAs then in place, and AIG Parent was not required to make any capital contributions in either period pursuant to the CMAs then in place.   

AIG Life and Retirement

We
expect that AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy reasonably foreseeable future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations,
including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, monetization of invested assets. AIG Life and Retirement
subsidiaries' liquidity resources are held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities.   

Certain
AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries are members of the FHLBs in their respective districts. As of December 31, 2013, AIG Life and Retirement had outstanding borrowings of
$50 million from the FHLBs. Borrowings from the FHLBs are used to supplement liquidity or for other general corporate purposes.   

  The
need to fund product surrenders, withdrawals and maturities creates a potential liquidity requirement for AIG Life and Retirement's insurance subsidiaries. We believe that because of the size and
liquidity of our investment portfolios, AIG Life and Retirement does not face a significant liquidity risk due to normal deviations from projected claim or surrender experience. Furthermore, AIG Life
and Retirement's products contain certain features that mitigate surrender risk, including surrender charges. As part of its risk management framework, AIG Life and Retirement continues to evaluate
and, where appropriate, pursue strategies and programs to improve its liquidity position and facilitate AIG Life and Retirement's ability to maintain a fully invested asset portfolio. AIG Life and
Retirement also has developed a robust contingent liquidity plan to address any unforeseen liquidity needs.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement executes programs, which began in 2012, that lend securities from its investment portfolio to supplement liquidity or for other uses as deemed appropriate by management. Under
these programs, AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries lend securities to financial institutions and receive collateral equal to 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities.
Reinvestment of cash collateral received is restricted to liquid investments. Additionally, the aggregate amount of securities that an AIG Life and Retirement insurance company may lend under its
program at any time is limited to five percent of its general account admitted assets. AIG Life and Retirement's liability to borrowers for collateral received was $4.0 billion as of
December 31, 2013.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
134  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

  AIG Parent is party to CMAs with certain AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries. Among other things, the CMAs provide that AIG Parent will maintain the
total adjusted capital of each of these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries at or above a specified minimum percentage of the subsidiary's projected NAIC Company Action Level RBC. In
addition, the CMAs provided that if the total adjusted capital of these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries is in excess of that same specified minimum percentage of their respective total
company action level RBC, subject to approval by their respective boards and compliance with applicable insurance laws, the subsidiaries would declare and pay ordinary dividends to their respective
equity holders up to an amount necessary to reduce projected or actual total adjusted capital to a level equal to or not materially greater than such specified minimum percentage. On
February 18, 2014, the CMAs were recharacterized as capital support agreements and amended to remove the dividend requirement of the AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries. The
specified minimum percentage in the CMAs remained at 385 percent, except for the CMA with AGC Life Insurance Company, where the specified minimum percentage remained at 250 percent. AIG
will continue to manage capital between AIG Parent and these AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries through internal, Board-approved policies and guidelines.   

  In
2013, AIG Life and Retirement provided $4.4 billion of liquidity to AIG Parent in the form of cash dividends and loan repayments, including $1.3 billion of liquidity in the fourth
quarter of 2013, which was funded by the payment of cash dividends from AIG Life and Retirement's insurance subsidiaries that were made under the CMAs. AIG Parent was not required to make any capital
contributions to AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries in either period under the CMAs then in place.   

Other Operations

Mortgage Guaranty

We
expect that Mortgage Guaranty subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy reasonably foreseeable future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including
those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, monetization of invested assets. Mortgage Guaranty's liquidity resources
are held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated, fixed maturity securities. These securities could be monetized in the event liquidity levels are
insufficient to meet obligations.   

  On
July 1, 2013, AIG Parent entered into a CMA with a Mortgage Guaranty insurance subsidiary. Among other things, the CMA provides that AIG Parent will maintain capital and surplus of this
Mortgage Guaranty insurance subsidiary at or above a specified minimum required capital based on a specified risk-to-capital ratio. In addition, the CMA provides that if capital and surplus of this
Mortgage Guaranty insurance subsidiary is in excess of that same specified minimum required capital, subject to board approval and compliance with applicable insurance laws, this Mortgage Guaranty
insurance subsidiary would declare and pay ordinary dividends to its equity holders up to an amount necessary to reduce projected or actual capital and surplus to a level equal to or not materially
greater than such specified minimum required capital. As structured, the CMA contemplates that the specified minimum required capital would be reviewed and agreed upon at least annually. As of
December 31, 2013, the minimum required capital is based on a risk-to-capital ratio of 21 to 1.   

  In
2013, Mortgage Guaranty paid $90 million of cash dividends to AIG Parent. No dividends were paid, and AIG Parent was not required to make any capital contributions, under the CMA in 2013.   

Global Capital Markets

Derivative
transactions between AIG and its subsidiaries and third parties are generally centralized through GCM, specifically AIG Markets. Commencing June 10, 2013,
GCM was required to clear certain derivatives transactions through central regulated clearing organizations pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank). To
the extent a derivatives transaction is subject to a clearing obligation, GCM is required to post collateral in amounts determined by the relevant clearing organization and GCM's clearing agreements
with its futures commission merchants. To the extent a derivatives transaction is not subject to a clearing obligation, these derivative transactions are governed by bilateral master agreements, the
form of which is published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA). Many of these agreements, primarily between GCM and third party financial institutions, require
collateral postings. Many of GCM's transactions with AIG and its   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
135  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

  subsidiaries
also include collateral posting requirements, the purpose of which are to provide collateral to GCM, which in turn is used to satisfy posting requirements with third parties, including
the margin requirements of clearing organizations and futures commission merchants.   

  In
addition, most of GCM's CDSs within AIGFP are subject to collateral posting provisions. The collateral posting provisions contained in the ISDA Master Agreements and related transaction documents
with respect to CDSs differ among counterparties and asset classes. The amount of future collateral posting requirements for super senior CDSs is a function of our credit ratings, the rating of the
relevant reference obligations and the market value of the relevant reference obligations, with market value being the most significant factor. We estimate the amount of potential future collateral
postings associated with the super senior CDSs using various methodologies. The contingent liquidity requirements associated with such potential future collateral postings are incorporated into our
liquidity planning assumptions.   

  As
of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, GCM had total assets of $7.7 billion and $8.0 billion and total liabilities of $3.1 billion and
$4.9 billion. GCM's assets consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, other receivables, net of allowance, and unrealized gains on swaps, options and forwards. GCM's liabilities consist
primarily of trade payables and unrealized losses on swaps, options and forwards. Collateral posted by GCM to third parties was $3.0 billion and $4.2 billion at December 31, 2013
and December 31, 2012, respectively. GCM obtained collateral from third parties totaling $572 million and $846 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012,
respectively. The collateral amounts reflect counterparty netting adjustments available under ISDA Master Agreements and are inclusive of collateral that exceeded the fair value of derivatives as of
the reporting date.   

Direct Investment Book

The
DIB portfolio is being wound down and is managed with the objective of ensuring that at all times it maintains the liquidity we believe is necessary to meet all of its
liabilities as they come due, even under stress scenarios, and to maximize returns consistent with our risk management objectives. We are focused on meeting the DIB's liquidity needs, including the
need for contingent liquidity arising from collateral posting for debt positions of the DIB, without relying on resources beyond the DIB. As part of this program management, we may from time to time
access the capital markets, including issuing and repurchasing debt, and selling assets on an opportunistic basis, in each case subject to market conditions. If the DIB's risk target is breached, we
expect to take appropriate actions to increase the DIB's liquidity sources or reduce liquidity requirements to maintain the risk target, although no assurance can be given that this can be achieved
under then-prevailing market conditions. Any additional liquidity shortfalls would need to be funded by AIG Parent.   

  From
time to time, we may utilize cash allocated to the DIB that is not required to meet the risk target for the DIB for general corporate purposes unrelated to the DIB.   

  The
DIB's assets consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, U.S. government and government sponsored entities and mortgage and asset backed
securities. The DIB's liabilities consist primarily of notes and other borrowings supported by assets as well as other short-term financing obligations. As of December 31, 2013 and
December 31, 2012, respectively, the DIB had total assets of $23.3 billion and $28.5 billion and total liabilities of $20.0 billion and $23.8 billion.   

The
overall hedging activity for the assets and liabilities of the DIB is executed by GCM, The value of hedges related to the non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP in the DIB is included
within the assets, liabilities and operating results of GCM and is not included within the DIB's assets, liabilities or operating results.   

  Collateral
posted by operations included in the DIB to third parties was $4.2 billion at December 31, 2013 and $4.3 billion December 31, 2012. This collateral primarily
consists of securities of the U.S. government and government sponsored entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties.   

During
2013, the DIB funded maturities and repurchased debt in the open market in the amount of $2.5 billion. The repurchased debt resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of
$15 million.   

Credit Facilities

We
maintain a committed revolving four-year syndicated credit facility (the Four-Year Facility) as a potential source of liquidity for general corporate purposes. The
Four-Year Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit. We   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
136  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

  currently
expect to replace or extend the Four-Year Facility on or prior to its expiration in October 2016, although no assurance can be given that the Four-Year Facility will be replaced on favorable
terms or at all.   

  The
Four-Year Facility provides for $4.0 billion of unsecured revolving loans, which includes a $2.0 billion letter of credit sublimit. As of December 31, 2013, a total of
approximately $3.9 billion remains available under the Four-Year Facility, of which approximately $1.9 billion remains available for letters of credit. During each of the third and
fourth
quarters of 2013, we reduced our utilization of letters of credit under the Four-Year Facility. Our ability to borrow under the Four-Year Facility is not contingent on our credit ratings. However, our
ability to borrow under the Four-Year Facility is conditioned on the satisfaction of certain legal, operating, administrative and financial covenants and other requirements contained in the Four-Year
Facility. These include covenants relating to our maintenance of a specified total consolidated net worth and total consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization. Failure to satisfy these and
other requirements contained in the Four-Year Facility would restrict our access to the Four-Year Facility and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
and liquidity. We expect to borrow under the Four-Year Facility from time to time, and may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.   

Contingent Liquidity Facilities

AIG
Parent has access to a contingent liquidity facility of up to $500 million as a potential source of liquidity for general corporate purposes. Under this facility,
we have the unconditional right, prior to December 15, 2015, to issue up to $500 million in senior debt to the counterparty, based on a put option agreement between AIG Parent and the
counterparty.   

  Our
ability to borrow under this facility is not contingent on our credit ratings.   

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity:   

(a)  Includes
$21.4 billion of borrowings related to ILFC, which is reported as held for sale.   

  (b)  Primarily
includes contracts to purchase future services and other capital expenditures.   

  (c)  Does
not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $4.3 billion ($4.0 billion excluding ILFC), the timing of which is uncertain.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
137  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

Loss Reserves

Loss
reserves relate to the AIG Property Casualty and the Mortgage Guaranty businesses, and represent future loss and loss adjustment expense payments estimated based on
historical loss development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the payments by period presented above could be materially different from actual required payments. We
believe that AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty subsidiaries maintain adequate financial resources to meet the actual required payments under these obligations.   

Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities

Insurance
and investment contract liabilities, including GIC liabilities, relate to AIG Life and Retirement businesses. These liabilities include various investment-type
products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain nature. These liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion
represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) we are currently
not making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender
or other non-scheduled event out of our control.   

  We
have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits. These assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates,
expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions, the periodic amounts
presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table are undiscounted and exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

  We
believe that AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries have adequate financial resources to meet the payments actually required under these obligations. These subsidiaries have substantial liquidity in
the form of cash and short-term investments. In addition, AIG Life and Retirement businesses maintain significant levels of investment-grade rated fixed maturity securities, including substantial
holdings in government and corporate bonds, and could seek to monetize those holdings in the event operating cash flows are insufficient. We expect liquidity needs related to GIC liabilities to be
funded through cash flows generated from maturities and sales of invested assets.   

Borrowings

Our
borrowings exclude those incurred by consolidated investments and include hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value. We expect to repay the
long-term debt maturities and interest accrued on borrowings by AIG through maturing investments and dispositions of invested assets, future cash flows from operations, cash flows generated from
invested assets, future debt issuance and other financing arrangements.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
138  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments

The following table summarizes Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity:   

(a)  Includes
residual value guarantees associated with aircraft and AIG Life and Retirement construction guarantees connected to affordable housing investments. Excludes potential amounts
for indemnification obligations included in asset sales agreements. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on indemnification obligations.   

  (b)  Includes
commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. The
commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds are called at the discretion of each fund, as needed for funding new investments or expenses of the fund. The expiration of
these commitments is estimated in the table above based on the expected life cycle of the related fund, consistent with past trends of requirements for funding. Investors under these commitments are
primarily insurance and real estate subsidiaries.   

  (c)  Does
not include guarantees, capital maintenance agreements or other support arrangements among AIG consolidated entities.   

  (d)  Primarily
represents liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond obligations.   

(e)  Excludes
commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2014 is expected to be approximately $177 million for U.S. and non-U.S. plans   

  (f)   Includes
$333 million attributable to ILFC, which is reported as held for sale.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
139  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities

We
enter into various arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business, and we consolidate a VIE when we are the primary beneficiary of
the entity. For a further discussion of our involvement with VIEs, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Indemnification Agreements

We
are subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with our sales of businesses. These arrangements may be triggered by declines in asset
values, specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent liabilities, litigation developments, or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These arrangements
are typically subject to time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as by prevailing statutes of limitation. Depending on the specific terms of the arrangements, the
maximum potential obligation may or may not be subject to contractual limitations. For additional information regarding our indemnification agreements, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

  We
have recorded liabilities for certain of these arrangements where it is possible to estimate them. These liabilities are not material in the aggregate. We are unable to develop a reasonable
estimate of the maximum potential payout under some of these arrangements. Overall, we believe that it is unlikely we will have to make any material payments under these arrangements.   

Debt

The following table provides the rollforward of AIG's total debt outstanding:   

(a)  On
July 11, 2013, AIGLH junior subordinated debentures with the same terms as the trust preferred securities were distributed to holders of the trust preferred securities, and
the trust preferred securities were cancelled.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
140  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    
  
   (b)  AIG
Parent guarantees all DIB debt, except for MIP notes payable and Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable, which are direct obligations of AIG Parent.   

  (c)  Primarily
represents adjustments to the fair value of debt.   

  (d)  At
December 31, 2013, includes debt of consolidated investments primarily held through AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp., AIG Property Casualty U.S., AIG Credit Corp. and
AIG Life and Retirement of $1.5 billion, $58 million, $111 million and $201 million, respectively.   

(e)  Excludes
$21.4 billion and $24.3 billion related to ILFC as it is classified as a held-for-sale business at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

The decrease in total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 was primarily due to maturities and repayments of
debt, including cash tender offers, redemptions and repurchases of certain debt securities discussed above.   

Debt Maturities

The following table summarizes maturing debt at December 31, 2013 of AIG (excluding $1.9 billion of borrowings of consolidated
investments) for the next four quarters:   

(a)  There
is no debt related to AIG general borrowings set to mature in 2014. This debt will begin maturing in 2015.   

  (b)  In
January 2014, AIG reduced DIB debt by $2.2 billion through a redemption of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of its 4.250% Notes due 2014 and a repurchase of
$1.0 billion of its 8.25% Notes due 2018 using cash and short term investments allocated to the DIB.   

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details for debt outstanding.   

Credit Ratings

Credit ratings estimate a company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing to that
company.    The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of February 1, 2014. Figures in parentheses indicate the relative
ranking of the ratings within the   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
141  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

agency's
rating categories; that ranking refers only to the major rating category and not to the modifiers assigned by the rating agencies.   

Short-Term Debt  

Senior Long-Term Debt  

Moody's   

S P   

Moody's (a)    

S P (b)    

Fitch (c)    

AIG  

P-2 (2nd of 3)   

A-2 (2nd of 8)   

Baa 1 (4th of 9)   

A- (3rd of 8)   

BBB (4th of 9)   

Stable Outlook    

Stable Outlook    

Negative Outlook    

Stable Outlook    

AIG Financial Products Corp. (d)   

P-2   

Stable Outlook    

A-2   

Baa 1   

Stable Outlook    

A-   

Negative Outlook    

AIG Funding, Inc. (d)   

P-2   

A-2   

Stable Outlook    

(a)  Moody's
appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories.   

  (b)  S P
ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories.   

  (c)  Fitch
ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories.   

  (d)  AIG
guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Funding, Inc.   

These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of
changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at our request.   

  We
are party to some agreements that contain "ratings triggers". Depending on the ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies, these triggers could result in (i) the termination or
limitation of credit availability or a requirement for accelerated repayment, (ii) the termination of business contracts or (iii) a requirement to post collateral for the benefit of
counterparties.   

  In
the event of adverse actions on our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies, AIGFP and certain other GCM entities would be required to post additional collateral under some derivative
transactions, or could experience termination of the transactions. Such transactions could adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period or our liquidity.
In the event of a further downgrade of AIG's long-term senior debt ratings, AIGFP and certain other GCM entities would be required to post additional collateral, and certain of the counterparties of
AIGFP or of certain other GCM entities would be permitted to terminate their contracts early.   

  The
actual amount of collateral that we would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depend on
market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade.   

  For
a discussion of the effects of downgrades in the financial strength ratings of our insurance companies or our credit ratings, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity, Capital and Credit.   

Regulation and Supervision

For
a discussion of our regulation and supervision by different regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, including with respect to our liquidity and capital
resources, see Item 1. Business   Regulation and Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation.   

Dividends and Repurchases of AIG Common Stock

On
August 1, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.10 per share, which was paid on September 26, 2013 to shareholders
of record on September 12, 2013.   

  On
October 31, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.10 per share, which was paid on December 19, 2013 to shareholders of record on
December 5, 2013.   

  On
February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.125 per share, payable on March 25, 2014 to shareholders of record on March 11,
2014. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, including the regulatory framework applicable to us, as discussed
further in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
142  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    

On
August 1, 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock, with an aggregate purchase price of up to $1.0 billion, from time to time in the open
market, private purchases, through forward, derivative, accelerated repurchase or automatic repurchase transactions or otherwise. As of December 31, 2013, we have repurchased approximately
12 million shares of AIG Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $597 million pursuant to this authorization. On February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors
authorized an increase to the August 1, 2013 repurchase authorization of AIG Common Stock by $1.0 billion, resulting in an aggregate remaining authorization of approximately
$1.4 billion of AIG Common Stock, which may be repurchased from time to time in the open market, private purchases, through forward, derivative, accelerated repurchase or automatic repurchase
transactions or otherwise. The timing of such repurchases will depend on market conditions, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and other factors.   

Dividend Restrictions

Dividend
payments to AIG Parent by our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to our domestic insurance
subsidiaries, the payment of
any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. Foreign jurisdictions may restrict the ability of our foreign insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends, and dividends from foreign subsidiaries may also have unfavorable income tax consequences. There are also various local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to
AIG Parent by our subsidiaries. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of restrictions on payments of dividends by AIG and its subsidiaries.

Investments   

OVERVIEW

Our
investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives are driven by the respective business models for AIG
Property Casualty, AIG Life and Retirement, and AIG Parent including the DIB. The primary objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of
surplus to support the insurance products. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.

Investments Highlights in 2013     

An increase in interest rates on investment grade fixed maturity securities, partially offset by narrowing spreads of high
yield securities, resulted in net unrealized losses in the investment portfolio. Net unrealized gains in our available-for-sale portfolio declined to approximately $12 billion as of
December 31, 2013 from approximately $25 billion as of December 31, 2012.   
           We continued to make investments in structured securities, other fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans with
favorable risk versus return characteristics to improve yields and increase net investment income.   
           Net investment income benefited from higher returns on alternative investments primarily due to strong equity market
performance.   
           Blended investment yields on new AIG Life and Retirement and AIG Property Casualty investments were lower than blended
rates on investments that were sold, matured or called.   
           Other-than-temporary-impairment charges on fixed maturity securities, equity securities, private equity funds and hedge
funds remained at low levels, with a small portion of impairments attributable to structured securities.   
           Impairments on investments in life settlements increased in 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of updated longevity
assumptions in the valuation tables used to estimate future expected cash flows.    

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
143  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Investment Strategies

Investment
strategies are based on considerations that include the local market, general market conditions, liability duration and cash flow characteristics, rating agency
and regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations, tax optimization and diversification.   

While more of a focus is placed on asset-liability matching in AIG Life and Retirement, our fundamental strategy across
all of our investment portfolios is to match the duration characteristics of the liabilities with assets of comparable duration, to the extent practicable.    
           Fixed maturity securities held by the domestic insurance companies included in AIG Property Casualty consist of a mix of
tax-exempt municipal bonds and taxable instruments that meet our current risk-return, tax, liquidity, credit quality, and diversification objectives.    
           Outside of the U.S., fixed maturity securities held by AIG Property Casualty consist primarily of intermediate duration
high-grade securities generally denominated in the currencies of the countries in which we operate.   
           AIG Parent's liquidity resources are held in the form of cash, short- term investments and publicly traded, intermediate
duration investment grade rated fixed maturity securities. AIG Parent actively manages its assets and liabilities in terms of products, counterparties and tenor. During 2013, upon an assessment of its
immediate and longer-term funding needs, AIG Parent purchased publicly traded, intermediate term, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities that can be readily monetized through sales or
repurchase agreements. These securities allow us to diversify sources of liquidity while reducing the cost of maintaining sufficient liquidity.    

Credit Ratings

At
December 31, 2013, approximately 89 percent of fixed maturity securities were held by our domestic entities. Approximately 17 percent of such
securities were rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies, and approximately 16 percent were rated below investment grade or not rated. Our investment decision process relies
primarily on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third-party rating services' ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspective for consideration in
the internal analysis.   

  A
significant portion of our foreign entities' fixed maturity securities portfolio is rated by Moody's, S P or similar foreign rating services. Rating services are not available for some foreign
issued securities. Our Credit Risk Management department closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio's non-rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2013, approximately
15 percent of the foreign entities' fixed maturity securities were either rated AAA or, on the basis of our internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities rated AAA,
and approximately 5 percent were rated below investment grade or not rated at that date. Approximately 45 percent of the foreign entities' fixed maturity securities portfolio is
comprised of sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country of issuance.   

Composite AIG Credit Ratings

With
respect to our fixed maturity investments, the credit ratings in the table below and in subsequent tables reflect: (a) a composite of the ratings of the three
major rating agencies, or when agency ratings are not available, the rating assigned by the NAIC Securities Valuations Office (SVO) (over 99 percent of total fixed maturity investments), or
(b) our equivalent internal ratings when these investments have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies or the NAIC. The "Non-rated" category in those tables consists of fixed
maturity securities spread among various asset classes and issuers that have not been rated to date by any of the major rating agencies, the NAIC or us.   

  See
Enterprise Risk Management herein for a discussion of credit risks associated with Investments.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
144  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

The following table presents the composite AIG credit ratings of our fixed maturity securities calculated on the basis of their fair value:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
145  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Investments by Segment

The following tables summarize the composition of AIG's investments by reportable segment:   

*     At
December 31, 2013, approximately 89 percent and 11 percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign entities, respectively, compared to approximately
88 percent and 12 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2012.   

AIG Property Casualty

For
AIG Property Casualty, the duration of liabilities for long-tail casualty lines is greater than that for other lines. As opposed to the focus in AIG Life and Retirement,
the focus is not on asset-liability matching, but on preservation of capital and growth of surplus.   

  Fixed
maturity securities of AIG Property Casualty's domestic operations, with an average duration of 3.9 years, are currently comprised primarily of tax-exempt securities, which provide
attractive risk-adjusted after-tax returns, as well as taxable municipal bonds, government and agency bonds, and corporate bonds. The majority of these high quality investments are rated A or higher
based on composite ratings.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
146  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

  Fixed
maturity securities held in AIG Property Casualty's foreign operations are of high quality being rated A or higher based on composite ratings, and are of short to intermediate duration,
averaging 4.3 years.   

  While
invested assets backing reserves are primarily invested in conventional fixed maturity securities in AIG Property Casualty's domestic operations, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to
alternative investments, including private equity and hedge funds. These investments provide a combination of added diversification and attractive long-term returns.   

AIG Life and Retirement

Our
investment strategy is to maximize net investment income and portfolio value, subject to liquidity requirements, capital constraints, diversification requirements, asset-liability matching and
available investment opportunities.   

  We
use asset-liability management as a primary tool to monitor and manage risk in our businesses. Our objective is to maintain an investment portfolio with assets having weighted average durations
that are matched to the duration and cash flow profile of our liabilities, to the extent practicable. The investment portfolio of each product line is tailored to the specific characteristics of its
insurance liabilities, and as a result, certain portfolios are shorter in duration and others are longer in duration. An extended low interest rate environment may result in a lengthening of liability
durations from initial estimates, primarily due to lower lapses.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement monitors fixed income markets, including the level of interest rates, credit spreads and the shape of the yield curve. AIG Life and Retirement frequently reviews its interest
rate assumptions and actively manages the crediting rates used for its new and in force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the overall business in a
historically low interest rate environment. The low interest rate environment makes it more difficult to profitably price attractive guaranteed return products and puts margin pressure on existing
products, due to the challenge of investing recurring premiums and deposits and reinvesting investment portfolio cash flows in the low rate environment while maintaining satisfactory investment
quality and liquidity. In addition, there is investment risk associated with future premium receipts from certain in-force business. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at
a yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities.   

  A
number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain variable and indexed annuity products. The fair value of these benefits is
measured based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. We manage our exposure resulting from these long-term guarantees
through reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments. We actively review underlying assumptions of policyholder behavior and persistency related to these guarantees. We have taken positions in
certain derivative financial instruments to hedge the impact of changes in equity markets and interest rates on these benefit guarantees. We execute listed futures and options contracts on equity
indexes to hedge certain guarantees of variable and indexed annuity products. We also enter into various types of futures and options contracts, primarily to hedge changes in value of certain
guarantees of variable and indexed annuities due to
fluctuations in interest rates. We use several instruments to hedge interest rate exposure, including listed futures on government securities, listed options on government securities and the purchase
of government securities.   

  With
respect to over-the-counter derivatives, we deal with highly rated counterparties and do not expect the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations under the contracts. We have controls in
place to monitor credit exposures by limiting transactions with specific counterparties within specified dollar limits and assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties periodically. We generally
use ISDA Master Agreements and Credit Support Annexes (CSAs) with bilateral collateral provisions to reduce counterparty credit exposures.   

  Fixed
maturity securities of AIG Life and Retirement, with an average duration of 6.4 years, are comprised of taxable corporate bonds, as well as taxable municipal and government bonds, and
agency and non-agency structured securities. The majority of these investments are held in the available for sale portfolio and are rated investment grade based on our composite ratings.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
147  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Available-for-Sale Investments

The following table presents the fair value of our available-for-sale securities:   

*     At
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, bonds available for sale held by us that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $32.6 billion and
$29.6 billion, respectively.   

The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate credit exposures to non-U.S. governments and their agencies, financial
institutions and local governments for our fixed maturity securities:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
148  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

   The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate United Kingdom and European credit exposures by major sector for our fixed
maturity securities:   

Investments in Municipal Bonds

At
December 31, 2013, the U.S. municipal bond portfolio of AIG Property Casualty was composed primarily of essential service revenue bonds and high quality tax-backed
bonds with over 97 percent of the portfolio rated A or higher.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
149  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

The following table presents the fair values of our available for sale U.S. municipal bond portfolio by state and municipal bond type:   

(a)  Excludes
certain university and not- for- profit entities that issue their bonds in the corporate debt market. Includes industrial revenue bonds.   

  (b)  Includes
$6.1 billion of pre-refunded municipal bonds.   

Investments in Corporate Debt Securities

The following table presents the industry categories of our available for sale corporate debt securities:   

*     At
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, approximately 93 percent and 94 percent of these investments were rated investment grade, respectively.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
150  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Investments in RMBS

The following table presents AIG's RMBS available for sale investments by year of vintage:   

*     Commencing
in the second quarter of 2011, we began purchasing certain RMBS that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their origination. See Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments   Purchased Credit Impaired (PCI) Securities, for additional discussion. Includes approximately $11.3 billion and
$8.8 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of these securities.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
151  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

   The following table presents our RMBS available for sale investments by credit rating:   

(a)  Commencing
in the second quarter of 2011, we began purchasing certain RMBS that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their origination. See Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments   Purchased Credit Impaired (PCI) Securities, for additional discussion.   

  (b)  The
weighted average expected life was 7 years at December 31, 2013 and 6 years at December 31, 2012.   

Our underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset-backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the
servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
152  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Investments in CMBS

The following table presents our CMBS available for sale investments:   

*     The
increase in value is primarily attributable to net purchases of approximately $3.0 billion of highly rated CMBS securities, partially offset by changes in net unrealized
losses.   

The following table presents the fair value of our CMBS holdings by rating agency designation and by vintage
year:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
153  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

The following table presents our CMBS available for sale investments by geographic region:   

*     Includes
Non-U.S. locations.   

The following table presents our CMBS available for sale investments by industry:   

*     Includes
Agency-backed CMBS.   

The fair value of CMBS holdings remained stable throughout 2013. The majority of our investments in CMBS are in tranches that contain substantial protection
features through collateral subordination. The majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly diversified across property types and geographical areas.   

Investments in CDOs

The following table presents our CDO available for sale investments by collateral type:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
154  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

   The following table presents our CDO available for sale investments by credit rating:   

Commercial Mortgage Loans

At
December 31, 2013, we had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $16.2 billion. At that date, over 99 percent of the loans were current.   

   The following table presents the commercial mortgage loan exposure by location and class of loan based on amortized cost:   

*     Excludes
portfolio valuation losses.   

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
155  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Impairments

The following table presents impairments by investment type:   

Our investments in life settlements are monitored for impairment on a contract-by-contract basis quarterly. An investment in life settlements is considered
impaired if the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the expected proceeds would not be sufficient to recover our estimated future carrying amount, which is the current carrying amount for the
investment in life settlements plus anticipated undiscounted future premiums and other capitalizable future costs, if any. Impaired investments in life settlements are written down to their estimated
fair value which is determined on a discounted cash flow basis, incorporating current market longevity assumptions and market yields.   

  In
2011, we revised the valuation table for estimating the future net cash flows from investments in life settlements. This resulted in an increase in the number of investments in life settlements
identified as potentially impaired compared to previous analyses. Since that time, we have continued to monitor the longevity experience of the portfolio, new medical information as it becomes
available regarding insureds, as well as U.S. industry experience studies that have become available for portfolios with similar insureds. The cumulative mortality experience through
December 31, 2013, was sufficiently lower than the prior assumptions indicating that it was appropriate to revise our future mortality assumptions, despite the small number of lives in the
portfolio.   

  Our
new mortality assumptions are based on an industry table that was supplemented with proprietary data on the older age mortality of U.S. insured lives. In addition, mortality improvement factors
were applied to our new assumptions based on our view of future mortality improvements likely to apply to the U.S. insured lives population. These mortality improvement assumptions were based on our
analysis of various public industry sources and proprietary research conducted by our specialist advisors. Using these new mortality assumptions coupled with the adopted future mortality improvement
rates, we revised our estimate of future net cash flows from the investments in life settlements. This resulted in a significant increase in the number of investments in life settlements identified as
impaired as of December 31, 2013.   

  Additional
impairments are expected to occur in the future due to the fact that continued payment of premiums required to maintain policies will cause the expected lifetime undiscounted cash flows for
some policies to become negative in future reporting periods, even in the absence of future changes to the mortality assumptions. Impairments may also occur due to our future sale or lapse of select
policies at a value that is below carrying value.   

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments

To
determine other-than-temporary impairments, we use fundamental credit analyses of individual securities without regard to rating agency ratings. Based on this analysis,
we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to cover the amortized cost of all below investment grade securities for which credit impairments were not recognized.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
156  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

The following tables present other-than-temporary impairment charges recorded in earnings on fixed maturity securities, equity securities, private equity funds and hedge
funds.   

   Other-than-temporary impairment charges by reportable segment and impairment type:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
157  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Other-than-temporary impairment charges by investment type and impairment type:   

*     Includes
other-than-temporary impairment charges on private equity funds, hedge funds and direct private equity investments.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
158  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

Other-than-temporary impairment charges by investment type and credit rating:   

*     Includes
other-than-temporary impairment charges on private equity funds, hedge funds and direct private equity investments.   

We recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 related
to:  

issuer-specific credit events;   
           securities for which we have changed our intent from hold to sell;   
           declines due to foreign exchange rates;   
           adverse changes in estimated cash flows on certain structured securities; and    
           securities that experienced severe market valuation declines;    

  In
addition, impairments are also recorded on real estate and investments in life settlements.   

  There
was no significant impact to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations from other-than-temporary impairment charges for any one single credit. Also, no individual
other-than-temporary impairment charge exceeded 0.02 percent, 0.11 percent and 0.20 percent of total equity at December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011, respectively.   

In
periods subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign-exchange related, we generally prospectively
accrete into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining life of the security. The accretion that was recognized for these
securities in earnings was $774 million in 2013,   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
159  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / INVESTMENTS    

  $915 million
in 2012, and $542 million in 2011. For a discussion of AIG's other-than-temporary impairment accounting policy, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The following table shows the aging of the pre-tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, the extent to which the fair value is less than amortized cost or
cost, and the number of respective items in each category:   

(a)  Represents
the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount.   

  (b)  Represents
the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at December 31, 2013.   

  (c)  For
bonds, represents amortized cost.   

(d)  The
effect on Net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will result in current decreases in the amortization of
certain DAC.   

  (e)  Item
count is by CUSIP by subsidiary.   

Change in Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments

The
change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments in 2013 were primarily attributable to decreases in the fair value of bonds available for sale. Net unrealized
gains related to fixed maturity and equity securities decreased by $13.7 billion primarily due to the increase in U.S. Treasury rates, partially offset by the narrowing of credit spreads and
the realization of approximately $2.5 billion in gains from sales of securities.   

  The
change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments in 2012 were primarily attributable to the appreciation in the fair value of bonds available for sale due to continued improvements in
financial market conditions and significant narrowing of credit spreads partially offset by higher U.S. Treasury rates.   

  See
also Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our investment portfolio.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
160  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

Enterprise Risk Management   

  Risk
management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these
thresholds while optimizing returns. We consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses and a key element of our approach to corporate governance.   

Overview    

We have an integrated process for managing risks throughout our organization in accordance with our firm-wide risk appetite. Our Board of
Directors has oversight responsibility for the management of risk. Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Department supervises and integrates the risk management functions in each of our business units, providing senior management with a consolidated
view of the firm's major risk positions. Within each business unit, senior leaders and executives approve risk-taking policies and targeted risk tolerance within the framework provided by ERM. ERM supports our businesses and management in the
embedding of enterprise risk management in our key day-to-day business processes and in identifying, assessing, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks taken by us and our businesses. Nevertheless, our risk management efforts may not always be
successful and material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or financial condition may occur.  

Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)  
                         Our ERM framework provides
senior management with a consolidated view of our risk appetite and major risk positions.                   In each of our business units, senior leaders and executives approve risk-taking policies and targeted risk tolerance within the ERM framework while working with ERM to
mitigate risks across the firm.                   Risk
management is an integral part of how we manage our core businesses. 

Risk Governance Structure

Our
risk governance structure fosters the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture that encompasses all significant risk categories. Accountability for the
implementation and oversight of risk policies is aligned with individual corporate executives, with the risk committees receiving regular reports regarding compliance with each policy to support risk
governance at our corporate level as well as in each business unit.   

  Our
Board of Directors oversees the management of risk through its Finance and Risk Management Committee (FRMC) and Audit Committee. Those committees regularly interact with other committees of the
Board. Our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports to both the FRMC and AIG's Chief Executive Officer (CEO).   

   The Group Risk Committee (the GRC)    is the senior management group charged with assessing all significant risk issues on a global basis to protect our
financial strength, optimize our intrinsic value, and protect our reputation among key stakeholders. The GRC is chaired by our CRO. Its membership includes our CEO, Chief Financial Officer (CFO),
General Counsel, and 15 other executives from across our corporate functions and business units. Our CRO reports periodically on behalf of the GRC to both the FRMC and the Audit Committee of the
Board.   

  Management
committees that support the GRC are described below. These committees are comprised of senior executives and experienced business representatives from a range of functions and business
units throughout AIG and its subsidiaries. These committees are charged with identifying, analyzing and reviewing specific risk matters within their respective mandates.   

    Financial Risk Group (FRG):       The FRG is responsible for the oversight of financial risks taken by AIG and its subsidiaries. Its mandate includes
overseeing our aggregate credit, market, interest rate, liquidity and model risks, as well as asset-liability management, derivatives activity, and foreign exchange transactions. Membership of the FRG
includes our EVP   Investments, Deputy AIG Chief Investment Officer, as well as our CFO, and other senior executives from Finance and ERM. Our CRO serves as Chair of the FRG.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
161  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

Transaction Approval and Business Practices Committee (TABPC):       TABPC provides the primary corporate-level review function for all proposed
transactions and business practices that are significant in size, complex in scope, or that present heightened legal, reputational, accounting or regulatory risks. Our Deputy General Counsel serves as
TABPC Chair and additional members include our CRO and CFO, and other senior executives from Finance, Legal, Treasury, Investments and our business units.   

    Operational Risk Committee (ORC):       This committee oversees operational risk management activities across AIG's businesses, functions, and geographic
locations. The ORC reviews the enterprise-wide identification, escalation and mitigation of operational risks that may arise from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or external
events. The ORC also monitors current and emerging operational risks, as well as management actions taken to reduce risks to acceptable levels. The Committee approves the Operational Risk Management
(ORM) Policy and ORM Framework, which includes the identification, assessment, monitoring and measurement of risks. The Committee ensures applicable governance structures are established to provide
oversight of operational risk at each business unit and corporate function. The ORC also reviews aggregate firm-wide operational risk reports and provides a forum for senior management to assess our
operational risk profile and to discuss operational risks that may affect our strategic objectives.   

  Our
Chief Administrative Officer is Chair of the ORC and our Head of Operational Risk Management serves as ORC Secretary. Other ORC members include senior AIG executives with expertise in legal,
compliance, technology, human resources, finance and operational risk, as well as business continuity management and the chief risk officers of our business units.   

    Business Unit Risk and Capital Committees:       Each of our major insurance businesses has established a risk and capital committee (BU RCC) that serves
as the senior management committee responsible for risk oversight at the individual business unit level. The BU RCCs are responsible for the identification, assessment and monitoring of all sources of
risk within their respective portfolios. Specific responsibilities include setting risk tolerances, approving capital management strategies (including asset allocation and risk financing), insurance
portfolio optimization, risk management policies and providing oversight of economic capital models. In addition to its BU RCC, each major insurance business has established subordinate committees
which identify, assess and monitor the specific operational, transactional and financial risks inherent in its respective business. Together, the BU RCCs and AIG Risk Committees described above
provide comprehensive risk oversight throughout the organization.   

Risk
oversight activities also continue to be coordinated with ILFC, a held for sale operation, until the pending ILFC sale transaction is closed.   

Risk Appetite, Identification, and Measurement

Risk Appetite Framework

Our
Risk Appetite Framework integrates stakeholder interests, strategic business goals and available financial resources. We intend to balance these by taking measured risks
that are expected to generate repeatable, sustainable earnings and produce long-term value for our shareholders. The framework includes a Statement of Risk Appetite approved by the Board of Directors
or a committee thereof and a set of supporting
tools, including risk tolerances, risk limits and policies, which we use to manage our risk profile and financial resources.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
162  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  We
articulate our aggregate risk-taking by setting risk tolerances on capital and liquidity measures. These measures are set at the AIG Parent, as well as the business unit, level and cover
consolidated and insurance company capital and liquidity ratios. We must comply with standards for capital adequacy and maintain sufficient liquidity to meet all our obligations as they come due in
accordance with our internal capital management and liquidity policies. The risk tolerances for our insurance operations inform the requirements for capital adequacy for individual businesses. Our
risk tolerances take into consideration regulatory requirements, rating agency expectations, and business needs. The GRC routinely reviews the level of risk taken by the consolidated organization in
relation to the established risk tolerances. A consolidated risk report is also presented to the FRMC by our CRO.   

  A
key component of our Risk Appetite Framework is setting appropriate limits on the material risks that are core to our business. The monitoring and reporting of those risk limits serves as an early
warning indicator to us and is designed to provide timely oversight and enforceability to meet both internal and external stakeholders' expectations. We also have instituted other control measures,
including policies and related procedures, to govern business practices that may impact our risk profile.   

Risk Identification and Measurement

One
tool we use to inform our Risk Appetite Framework is risk identification. We conduct risk identification through a number of processes at the business unit and corporate
level focused on capturing our material risks and key areas of focus for follow-up risk management actions. In 2013, we initiated a more formal and integrated bottom-up risk identification and
assessment process down to the product-line level. These processes are used as a critical input to enhance and develop our analytics for measuring and assessing risks across the organization.   

  We
employ various approaches to measure, monitor, and manage risk exposures, including the utilization of a variety of metrics and early warning indicators. We use a proprietary stress testing
framework to measure our quantifiable risks. This framework is built on our existing ERM stress testing methodology for both insurance and non-insurance operations. The framework measures risk over
multiple time horizons and under different levels of stress. We develop a range of stress scenarios based both on internal experience and regulatory guidance. The stress tests are intended to ensure
that sufficient resources for our insurance company subsidiaries and the consolidated company are available under both idiosyncratic and systemic market stress conditions.   

  The
stress testing framework assesses our aggregate exposure to our most significant financial and insurance risks, including the risk in each of our insurance company subsidiaries in relation to its
statutory capital needs under stress, risks inherent in our non-insurance company subsidiaries, and risks to AIG consolidated capital. Using our stress testing methodology, we evaluate the capital and
earnings impact of potential stresses in relation to the relevant capital constraint of each business operation. We use this information to determine the resources needed at the AIG Parent level to
support our subsidiaries and capital resources required to maintain consolidated company target capitalization levels.   

We evaluate and manage risk in material topics as shown below. These topics are discussed in more detail in the following pages:   

Credit Risk
Management  
     
                 Liquidity Risk
Management  
     
                 Insurance Operations
Risks  

Market Risk
Management  
     
                 Operational Risk
Management  
     
                 Other Operations
Risks  

Credit Risk Management

Overview

Credit
risk is defined as the risk that our customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also result from a
downgrade of a counterparty's credit ratings or a widening of its credit spreads.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
163  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  We
devote considerable resources to managing our direct and indirect credit exposures. These exposures may arise from fixed income investments, equity securities, deposits, commercial paper
investments, reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance recoverables, counterparty risk arising from derivatives activities, collateral
extended to counterparties, insurance risk cessions to third parties, financial guarantees and letters of credit.   

Governance

Our
credit risks are managed at the corporate level within ERM. ERM is assisted by credit functions headed by highly experienced credit officers in the business units, whose
primary role is to assure appropriate credit risk management in accordance with our credit policies and procedures and relative to our credit risk parameters. Our Chief Credit Officer (CCO) and credit
executives are primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of these credit risk policies and procedures.   

  Responsibilities
of the CCO and credit executives include:  

developing and implementing our company-wide credit policies;   
           approving delegated credit authorities to our credit executives;   
           managing the approval process for requests for credit limits, program limits and credit transactions above authorities or
where concentrations of risk may exist or be incurred;   
           aggregating globally all credit exposure data by counterparty, country, sector and industry and reporting risk
concentrations regularly to and reviewing with senior management;   
           administering regular portfolio credit reviews of investment, derivative and credit risk-incurring business units and
recommending corrective actions where required;   
           conducting credit research on countries, sectors and asset classes where risk concentrations may exist;    
           developing methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of
our internal risk rating process; and   
           approving appropriate credit reserves, credit-related other-than-temporary impairments and corresponding methodologies in
all credit portfolios.    

  We
monitor and control our company-wide credit risk concentrations and attempt to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of credit risk in
some circumstances, we may require third-party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, such as letters of credit and trust collateral accounts. We treat these guarantees, reinsurance recoverables,
letters of credit and trust collateral accounts as credit exposure and include them in our risk concentration exposure data. We identify our aggregate credit exposures to our underlying counterparty
risks and report them regularly to senior management for review.   

  See
Investments   Available for Sale Investments herein for further information on our credit concentrations and credit exposures.   

Market Risk Management

Market
risk is defined as the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in equity and commodity prices, residential and commercial real estate values, interest rates,
credit spreads, foreign currencies, inflation, and their levels of volatility.   

  We
are exposed to market risks primarily within our insurance and capital markets businesses. The chief risk officer within each such business is responsible for properly identifying these risks, then
ensuring that they are appropriately measured, monitored and managed in accordance with the written risk governance framework established by the Chief Market Risk Officer (CMRO).   

Our
market risk management framework focuses on quantifying the financial repercussions of changes in these broad market observables, distinct from the idiosyncratic risks associated with individual
assets that are addressed through our credit risk management function.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
164  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

Risk Identification

Market
risk quantifies the adverse impact on us due to broad, systemic movements in one or more of the following market risk drivers:   

    Equity market prices.       We are exposed to equity market prices affecting a variety of instruments. These include direct investments in
publicly-traded shares, investments in private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and other equity-linked capital market instruments as well as other equity-linked insurance
products, including but not limited to equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities, universal life insurance, and variable universal life insurance.   

Residential and commercial real estate values.       Our investment portfolios are exposed to the risk of changing values in a variety of residential and
commercial real estate investments. Residential investments include residential mortgages, residential mortgage-backed securities and other structured securities with underlying assets that include
residential mortgages: trusts that include real estate and/or mortgages (REITs), and mortgage insurance contracts. Commercial exposures include mortgage loans, commercial mortgage backed securities
and other structured securities with underlying assets that include commercial mortgages: trusts, REITs, and other investments.   

    Interest rates.       Interest rate risk can arise from a mismatch in the interest rate exposure of assets versus liabilities. Low interest rates mean
less investment income and potentially less attractive insurance products. Conversely, higher interest rates are typically beneficial for the opposite reasons. However, when rates rise quickly, there
can be a temporary asymmetric GAAP accounting effect where the existing securities lose market value, which is reported in Other comprehensive income, and the offsetting decrease in the value of
related liabilities may not be recognized.   

    Credit spread or risk premium.       Credit spreads measure an instrument's risk premium or yield relative to that of a comparable duration, default-free
instrument. Much like higher interest rates, wider credit spreads mean more investment income in the long-term. In the short term, quickly rising spreads will cause a loss in the value of existing
securities, which is reported in Other comprehensive income. A precipitous rise in credit spreads may also signal a fundamental weakness in the credit-worthiness of bond obligors, potentially
resulting in default losses.   

    Foreign currency exchange rates.       We are a globally diversified enterprise with significant income, assets and liabilities denominated in, and
significant capital deployed in, a variety of currencies.   

    Commodity Prices.       Changes in the value of commodities can affect the valuation of publicly-traded commodities, commodity indices and derivatives.   

Inflation.       Changes in inflation can affect the valuation of fixed maturity securities, including AIG-issued debt obligations, linked to inflation
index returns, derivatives on inflation indices, and insurance contracts where the claims are linked to inflation either explicitly, via indexing, or implicitly, through medical costs or wage levels
in our primary casualty business.   

Governance

Market
risk is managed at the corporate level within ERM through the CMRO, which reports directly to the AIG CRO. The CMRO is supported by a dedicated team of professionals
within ERM who work in partnership with the senior management of our finance, treasury and investment management corporate functions. The CMRO is primarily responsible for the development and
maintenance of a risk management framework that includes the following key components:  

written policies, standards and procedures that define the rules for our market risk-taking activities and provide clear
guidance regarding their execution and management;   
           a limit framework that aligns with our Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement;    
           independent measurement, monitoring and reporting for line of business, business unit and enterprise-wide market risks;
and  
           clearly defined authorities for all individuals and committee roles and responsibilities related to market risk
management.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
165  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  These components facilitate the CMRO's identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting and management of our market risks.   

Risk Measurement

Our
market risk measurement framework was developed with the main objective of communicating the range and scale of our market risk exposures. At the firm-wide level market
risk is measured in a manner that is consistent with AIG's Risk Appetite Statement. This is designed to ensure that we remain within our stated risk tolerance levels and can determine how much
additional market risk taking capacity we have available within our framework. At the market risk level, the framework measures our overall exposure to each systemic market risk change.   

Our
risk appetite is currently defined in terms of capital and liquidity levels under specified stress tests. In addition, we continue to develop economic, U.S. GAAP accounting and statutory
capital-based risk measures at the market risk level, business-unit level and firm-wide levels. This process aims to ensure that we have a comprehensive view of the impact of our market risk
exposures.   

We use a number of approaches to measure our market risk exposure, including:   
  
    Sensitivity analysis.    Sensitivity analysis measures the impact from a unit change in a market risk input. Examples of such sensitivities include a one
basis point increase in yield on fixed maturity securities, a one basis point increase in credit spreads on fixed maturity securities, and a one percent increase in price on equity securities.   

Scenario analysis.    Scenario analysis uses historical, hypothetical, or forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios to assess and report exposures. Examples
of hypothetical scenarios include a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve or a 20 percent immediate and simultaneous decrease in world-wide equity markets.   

   Stress testing.    Stress testing is a special form of scenario analysis in which the scenarios are designed to lead to a material adverse outcome.
Examples of such scenarios include the stock market crash of October 1987 or the widening of yields or spread of RMBS or CMBS during 2008.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
166  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

Market Risk Sensitivities

The following table provides estimates of our sensitivity to changes in yield curves, equity prices and foreign currency exchange
rates:   

(a)  In
2013, the analysis covers $283 billion of $306 billion interest-rate sensitive assets. Excluded are $6 billion in DIB assets, $5 billion of loans, and
$4 billion of investments in life settlements. In addition, $8 billion of assets across various asset categories were excluded due to modeling and/or data limitations. In 2012, the
analysis covers $285 billion of $319 billion interest-rate sensitive assets. Excluded are $15 billion in DIB assets, $5 billion of loans, and $4 billion of
investments in life settlements. In addition, $10 billion of assets across various asset categories were excluded due to modeling and/or data limitations.   

  (b)  Prior
period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation.   

  (c)  Includes
PICC Group and PICC P C.   

  (d)  The
majority of the foreign currency exposure is reported on a one quarter lag.   

Exposures to yield curve movements include fixed maturity securities and loans and exclude consolidated separate account assets and short-term investments.
Total interest-rate sensitive assets decreased 0.6 percent or approximately $1.8 billion compared to December 31, 2012, primarily due to a net decrease in fixed maturity
securities of $1.0 billion, and a decrease in mortgage and other loans receivable of $0.8 billion.   

  Exposures
to equity and alternative investment prices include investments in common stock, preferred stocks, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, commercial real estate and real estate
funds and exclude consolidated separate account assets, consolidated partnerships and consolidated funds. Total exposure in these areas at December 31, 2013 increased 3.4 percent, or
approximately $958 million, compared to exposure at December 31, 2012, primarily due to an increase of $2.1 billion related to hedge fund investments and an increase in common
equity securities of $401 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in private equity investments of $1.4 billion and a decrease in aircraft asset investments of
$221 million.   

  Foreign
currency-denominated net asset position reflects our consolidated non-U.S. dollar assets less our consolidated non-U.S dollar liabilities on a U.S. GAAP basis. We use a bottom-up
approach in managing our foreign   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
167  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  currency
exchange rate exposures with the objective of protecting statutory capital at the regulated insurance entity level. We manage cash flow risk on our foreign currency-denominated debt issued by
AIG Parent, and use a variety of techniques to mitigate this risk, including but not limited to the execution of cross-currency swaps and the issuance of new foreign currency-denominated debt to
replace equivalent maturing debt. At the AIG Parent level, we monitor our foreign currency exposures against single currency and aggregate currency portfolio limits. As a matter of general practice,
we do not typically hedge our foreign currency exposures to net investments in subsidiaries. However, we may utilize either cross-currency swaps or our foreign currency- denominated debt as a net
investment hedge of our capital in subsidiaries.   

  At
December 31, 2013, our five largest foreign currency net asset positions were denominated in British pounds, Canadian dollars, Euro, Hong Kong dollars and Japanese yen. Foreign
currency-denominated net asset position at December 31, 2013 increased 13.7 percent, or $1.2 billion, compared to December 31, 2012. This was primarily due to an increase
in our Hong Kong dollar position of $523 million and $337 million resulting from AIG Life and Retirement's and AIG Property Casualty's investments in PICC Group and PICC P C,
respectively; an increase in our British pound position of $730 million as a result of AIG Parent repurchasing outstanding British pound-denominated debt; an increase in our Japanese yen
position of $513 million resulting from AIG Property Casualty Japan's operations and unrealized appreciation of investments; and an increase in our Israeli shekel position of
$128 million resulting from the increase in our ownership of AIG Israel Insurance Company Limited. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our British pound position of
$400 million resulting from AI Overseas Association (AIOA) IBNR reserves adjustments; a decrease in our Canadian dollar position of $389 million, primarily from the operations of AIG
Insurance Company of Canada; and a decrease of $225 million, resulting from the weakening of other currencies against the U.S. dollar.   

  For
illustrative purposes, we modeled our sensitivities based on a 100 basis point increase in yield curves, a 20 percent decline in equities and alternative assets, and a 10 percent
depreciation of all foreign currency exchange
rates against the U.S. dollar. This should not be taken as a prediction, but only as a demonstration of the potential effects of such events.   

The
sensitivity factors utilized for 2013 and presented above were selected based on historical data from 1993 to 2013, as follows (see the table
below):  

a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve is consistent with a one standard deviation movement of the benchmark
ten-year treasury yield;   
           a 20 percent drop for equity and alternative investments is broadly consistent with a one standard deviation
movement in the S P 500; and  
           a 10 percent depreciation of foreign currency exchange rates is consistent with a one standard deviation movement
in the U.S. dollar (USD)/Great Britain pound (GBP) exchange rate.    

Risk Monitoring and Limits

To
control our exposure to market risk, we rely on a three-tiered system of limits that the CMRO closely monitors and reports to our CRO, senior management and risk
committees.   

  Our
CRO and CMRO establish market risk limits that are consistent with our Risk Appetite Statement and approved by each of the FRG and the GRC. These limits are tiered to accommodate product line,
business unit and enterprise-wide needs and risk profiles. Consolidated company-level limits define our aggregate maximum exposure for the various market risk factors. Business unit limits are
designed to control specific, material market risk activities on a more granular level and additional limits are allocated into individual regions, lines of business and portfolios to address
idiosyncratic risks not captured by the higher-level limits, as well as to address the requirements of   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
168  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  regulators
and rating agencies. All limits are reviewed by the FRG and GRC on a periodic basis and revisions, if applicable, are proposed by our CRO and the CMRO for approval by those committees.   

  The
individual product lines and business units are initially responsible for complying with all market risk limits. The ERM teams and chief risk officers within each business unit monitor such
compliance and coordinate with the CMRO to provide regular, timely reporting to our senior management and risk committees. Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner and are
documented and escalated in accordance with their level of severity or materiality. Responsibility for addressing and/or remediating any breach rests with individual or individuals within the specific
unit that experienced the breach, who must report regularly on their progress to the ERM market risk team.   

Liquidity Risk Management

Liquidity
risk is defined as the risk that our financial condition will be adversely affected by the inability or perceived inability to meet our short-term cash, collateral
or other financial obligations.   

  The
failure to appropriately manage liquidity risk can result in reduced operating flexibility, increased costs, and reputational harm. Because liquidity is critically important, our liquidity
governance includes a number of liquidity and funding policies and monitoring tools to address both AIG-specific, broader industry and market related liquidity events.   

Sources
of Liquidity risk can include, but are not limited to:  

financial market movements   significant changes in interest rates can provide incentives for
policyholders to surrender their policies. Changes in markets can impact collateral posting requirements or limit our ability to sell assets at reasonable values to meet liquidity needs due to
unfavorable market conditions, inadequate market depth, or other investors seeking to sell the same or similar assets;   
           potential reputational events or credit downgrade   changes can have an impact on policyholder
cancellations and withdrawals or impact collateral posting requirements; and  
           catastrophic events, including natural and man-made disasters, that can increase policyholder claims.    

  The
principal objective of our liquidity risk framework is to protect our liquidity position and identify a diversity of funding sources available to meet actual and contingent liabilities during both
normal and stress periods. This framework is guided by the liquidity risk tolerance. AIG Parent liquidity risk tolerance levels are established for base and stress scenarios over a time horizon
covering a period greater than one year. We maintain a liquidity buffer designed to ensure that funding needs are met under varying market conditions. If we project that we will breach the tolerance,
we will assess and determine appropriate liquidity management actions. However, the market conditions in effect at that time may not permit us to achieve an increase in liquidity sources or a
reduction in liquidity requirements.   

  We
strive to manage our liquidity prudently at a legal entity level across AIG Parent and the operating companies. Key components of the framework include effective corporate governance and policy,
maintaining diversified sources of liquidity, contingency funding plans, and regular review of liquidity metrics in both normal and stress conditions. We view each component of the framework together
to achieve our goal of sound liquidity risk management.   

Operational Risk Management

Operational
risk is defined as the risk of loss, or other adverse consequences, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external
events. Operational risk includes legal risk, but excludes business and strategy risks.   

  Operational
risk is inherent in each of our business units and corporate functions. Operational risks may lead to the following impacts: unintended economic losses or gains, reputational harm due to
negative publicity, censure from supervisory agencies, operational and business disruptions, and/or damage to customer relationships.   

  Our
ORM function, which supports our ORC, has the responsibility to provide an aggregate view of our operational risk profile. Our ORM function oversees the Operational Risk policy and framework,
which includes risk identification, assessment, monitoring and measurement.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
169  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  Each
business unit is primarily responsible for managing its operational risks and implementing the components of the operational risk management program. In addition, certain corporate control
functions have been assigned accountability for enterprise-wide risk management for their respective areas. These control functions include: Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), Business Continuity Management (BCM),
Information Technology Security Risk, Compliance, Model Validation and Vendor Management. Senior business operational risk executives report to their respective business unit CRO and to the Head of
our ORM. This reporting structure is designed to enable close alignment with the businesses while ensuring consistent implementation of operational risk management practices.   

A strong operational risk management program facilitates the identification and mitigation of operational risk issues. To accomplish this, our operational risk management program is designed
to:   

pro-actively address potential operational risk issues;   
           create transparency throughout the organization; and   
           assign clear ownership and accountability for addressing identified operational risk issues.    

As
part of the ORM framework, we deploy an integrated risk assessment approach which includes top-down risk assessments to identify our most significant operational risks, a Risk and Control Self
Assessment (RCSA) process to identify key operational risks conducted at the business units and corporate functions and the identification of emerging risks through our Vulnerability Identification
(VID) process which considers risks that have not yet fully manifested but could become significant over time. Corrective action plans are developed to address identified issues. Businesses are
accountable for tracking and remediating these issues.   

  Operational
risk management reporting to senior management and operational risk governance committees provides awareness of operational risk exposures, identifies key risks and facilitates management
decision making. Reporting includes operational risk mitigation and monitoring, RCSA results and the status of issue resolution to senior management.   

Insurance Operations Risks

Except
as described above, we manage our business risk oversight activities through our insurance operations.   

  Our
insurance businesses are conducted on a global basis and expose us to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. We manage these risks throughout the organization, both centrally and
locally, through a number of procedures:  

pre-launch approval of product design, development and distribution;   
           underwriting approval processes and authorities;   
           exposure limits with ongoing monitoring;   
           modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product
group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events);   
           compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency targets;   
           use of reinsurance, both internal and third-party; and  
           review and establishment of reserves.    

  We
closely manage insurance risk by monitoring and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and
the premiums we charge for taking on the risk. We analyze concentrations of risk using various modeling techniques, including both probability distributions (stochastic) and single-point estimates
(deterministic) approaches.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
170  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

   Our major categories of insurance risks are:   

Property and Casualty (AIG Property Casualty)      risks
covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, accident and health, aviation and management liability. We manage risks in the general insurance segment through aggregations and limitations of
concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, geography, industry and legal entity.   
            Life Insurance   Retirement Services (AIG Life and
Retirement)      risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the
retirement savings-oriented products. We manage risks through product design, sound medical underwriting, and external traditional reinsurance programs.    
            Mortgage Guaranty (United Guaranty Corporation)      We
manage risks in the mortgage insurance business through geographic location of the insured properties, the relative economic conditions in the local housing markets, credit attributes of the
borrowers, and the loan amount relative to the value of the respective collateral.    

    We purchase reinsurance for our insurance operations.       Reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and
capital planning. We may purchase reinsurance on a pooled basis. Pooling of our reinsurance risks enables us to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global
counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both for AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement.   

AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks

A
primary goal in managing our AIG Property Casualty operations is to achieve an acceptable return on equity. To achieve this goal, we must be disciplined in risk selection,
premium adequacy, and appropriate terms and conditions to cover the risk accepted.   

  We
manage insurance risks through risk review and selection processes, exposure limitations, exclusions, deductibles, self-insured retentions, coverage limits, attachment points, and reinsurance. This
management is supported by sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis to help determine overall adequacy of provisions for insurance. Underwriting practices and
pricing procedures incorporate historical experience, current regulation and judicial decisions as well as proposed or anticipated regulatory changes.   

  For
AIG Property Casualty, insurance risks primarily emanate from the following:  

Unpaid Loss and Loss Expense Reserves      The potential
inadequacy of the liabilities we establish for unpaid losses and loss expenses is a key risk faced by AIG Property Casualty. There is significant uncertainty in factors that may drive the ultimate
development of losses compared to our estimates of losses and loss expenses. We manage this uncertainty through internal controls and oversight of the loss reserve setting process, as well as reviews
by external experts. See Item 1. Business   A review of Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense herein for further details.    
            Underwriting      The potential inadequacy of premiums
charged for future risk periods on risks underwritten in our portfolios can impact AIG Property Casualty's ability to achieve an underwriting profit. We develop pricing based on our estimates of
losses and expenses, but factors such as market pressures and the inherent uncertainty and complexity in estimating losses may result in premiums that are inadequate to generate underwriting profit.    
            Catastrophe Exposure      Our business is exposed to
various catastrophic events in which multiple losses can occur and affect multiple lines of business in any calendar year. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes,
have the potential to adversely affect our operating results. Other risks, such as man-made catastrophes or pandemic disease, could also adversely affect our business and operating results to the
extent they are covered by our insurance products. Concentration of exposure in certain industries or geographies may cause us to suffer disproportionate losses.    
            Reinsurance      Since we use reinsurance to limit our
losses, we are exposed to risks associated with reinsurance including the unrecoverability of expected payments from reinsurers either due to an inability or unwillingness to pay, contracts that do
not respond properly to the event, or that actual reinsurance coverage is different than anticipated.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
171  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

Natural Catastrophe Risk

We
manage catastrophe exposure with multiple approaches such as setting risk limits based on aggregate Probable Maximum Loss (PML) modeling, monitoring overall exposures and
risk accumulations, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance through both traditional reinsurance markets and capital markets in addition to other reinsurance protections.   

  We
use third-party catastrophe risk models and other tools to evaluate and simulate frequency and severity of catastrophic events and associated losses to our portfolios of exposures. We apply a
proprietary multi-model approach to account for relative strengths and weaknesses of vendor models, and make adjustments to modeled losses to account for loss adjustment expenses, model biases, data
quality and non-modeled risks.   

  In
addition, we perform post-catastrophe event studies to identify model weaknesses, underwriting gaps and lessons, and improvement opportunities. Lessons learned from post-catastrophe event studies
are incorporated into the modeling and underwriting process of risk pricing and selection. The majority of policies exposed to catastrophic risks are one-year contracts which allow us to adjust our
underwriting guidelines and exposures accumulation in a relatively short period.   

  We
recognize that climate change has implications for insurance industry exposure to natural catastrophe risk. With multiple levels of risk management processes in place, we actively analyze the
latest climate science and policy to anticipate potential changes to our risk profile, pricing models and strategic planning. For example, we continually consider changes in climate and weather
patterns as an integral part of the underwriting process. In addition, we are committed to providing innovative insurance products and services to help our clients be proactive against the threat of
climate change, including expanding natural disaster resilience, promoting adaptation, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our internal product development, underwriting, modeling, and
sustainability practices will continue to adapt to and evolve with the developing risk exposures attributed to climate change.   

  Our
natural catastrophe exposure is primarily driven by the U.S. and Japan, though our overall exposure is diversified across multiple countries. For example, we have exposures to additional perils
such as European windstorms and flood. Within the U.S., we have significant hurricane exposure in Florida, the Gulf of Mexico and the Northeast U.S. and mid-Atlantic regions. Events impacting the
Northeast U.S. and the mid-Atlantic may result in a
higher share of industry losses than other regions primarily due to our relative share of exposure in those regions. Within the U.S., we have significant earthquake exposure in California and the
Pacific Northwest and New Madrid regions. Earthquakes impacting the Pacific Northwest region may result in a higher share of industry losses than other regions primarily due to our relative share of
exposure in that region.   

  The
estimates below are the Occurrence Exceedance Probability (OEP) losses, which reflect losses that may occur in any single year due to the defined peril. The 1-in-100 and 1-in-250 PMLs are the
probable maximum losses from a single natural catastrophe event with probability of 1 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively.   

The following table presents an overview of modeled losses (OEP) for top perils and countries.   

(a)  The
U.S. hurricane amount includes losses to property from hurricane hazards of wind and storm surge.   

  (b)  U.S.
earthquake loss estimates represent exposure to Property, Workers' Compensation (U.S.) and A H business lines.   

  (c)  Japan
Earthquake represents exposure to property and A H business lines.   

The OEP estimates provided above reflect our in-force portfolios at September 30, 2013, for U.S. exposures, and at June 30, 2013 for Japan
exposures. The catastrophe reinsurance program is as of January 1, 2014.   

  AIG
Property Casualty natural catastrophe modeled losses relative to an industry benchmark over different return periods are presented in the chart below. AIG Property Casualty natural catastrophe net
modeled losses across all   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
172  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  perils
worldwide are higher than the industry benchmark in the case of more likely events, and lower in the case of tail events.   

   AIG Property Casualty Natural Catastrophe exposure vs. Industry benchmark*, worldwide net aggregate exceedance probability as a percentage of AIG Property Casualty statutory
surplus:   

*     Benchmark referenced is from the Moody's P C rating Methodology Update, May 2013.   

  AIG Property Casualty utilizes industry-recognized catastrophe models and applies its proprietary modeling processes and assumptions to arrive at loss
estimates. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Since there is no industry standard for assumptions and preparation of insured data for use
in models, modeled losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies.   

  Also,
the modeled results are based on the assumption that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to us under the terms of the reinsurance arrangements. However, reinsurance recoverable may not be
fully collectible. In particular, the use of catastrophe bonds may not provide commensurate levels of protection compared to traditional reinsurance transactions. Some catastrophe bond transactions
may be based on an industry loss index rather than on actual losses incurred by us, which would result in residual risk. Therefore, these estimates are inherently uncertain and may not accurately
reflect our exposure to these events.   

  Our
2014 catastrophe reinsurance program includes coverage for natural catastrophes and some coverage for terrorism events. It consists of a large North American occurrence cover (without
reinstatement) to protect against a large U.S. loss, and a worldwide aggregate cover to protect against multiple smaller losses. The attachment point for this reinsurance program is at
$3 billion.   

  Actual
results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios. The occurrence of one or more severe events could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Reserves and Exposures for additional information.   

Terrorism Risk

We
actively monitor terrorism risk and manage exposures to losses from terrorist attacks. We have set risk limits based on modeled losses from certain terrorism attack
scenarios. Terrorism risks are modeled using third-party vendor models and various terrorism attack models and scenarios. Adjustments are made to account for vendor model gaps and the nature of AIG
Property Casualty exposures. Examples of modeled scenarios are conventional bombs of different sizes, anthrax attacks and nuclear attacks.   

Our
largest terrorism exposures are in New York City, and estimated losses are largely driven by the Property and Workers' Compensation lines of business. At our largest exposure location, modeled
losses for a five-ton bomb attack net of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA) and reinsurance recoveries are estimated to be $3.3 billion as of
September 30, 2013. We also have smaller terrorism exposure in Canadian cities and in London.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
173  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  We also have exposure to terrorist attacks due to coverage at airport locations for airline hull, airline and airport property. The exposure is expected to be
less than the exposure in New York City to losses from a conventional five-ton bomb attack.   

  Our
exposure to terrorism risk is mitigated by TRIPRA in addition to limited private reinsurance protections. TRIPRA covers terrorist attacks in the United States only and excludes certain lines of
business as specified by applicable law. TRIPRA covers 85 percent of insured losses above a deductible. The current estimate of our deductible is about $2.8 billion for 2013. TRIPRA is
set to expire on December 31, 2014. We are closely monitoring the legislative developments related to TRIPRA renewal or expiration, and developing appropriate business strategies for potential
legislation outcomes, including non-renewal of TRIPRA.   

  We
offer terrorism coverage in many other countries through various insurance products and participate in country terrorism pools when applicable. International terrorism exposure is estimated using
scenario-based modeling and exposure concentration is monitored routinely. Targeted reinsurance purchases are made for some lines of business to cover potential losses due to terrorist attacks.   

Reinsurance Recoverable

AIG's
reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of:  

Paid losses recoverable   balances due from reinsurers for losses and loss expenses paid by our
subsidiaries and billed, but not yet collected.   
           Ceded loss reserves   ultimate ceded reserves for losses and loss expenses, including reserves for
claims reported but not yet paid and estimates for IBNR.   
           Ceded reserves for unearned premiums.    

At
December 31, 2013, total reinsurance recoverable assets were $23.8 billion. These assets include general reinsurance paid losses recoverable of $1.3 billion, ceded loss
reserves of $17.3 billion including reserves for IBNR, and ceded reserves for unearned premiums of $3.4 billion, as well as life reinsurance recoverables of $1.8 billion. The
methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years. These methods are continually reviewed and
updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income. We believe that the amount recorded for ceded loss reserves at December 31, 2013 reflect a reasonable estimate of the ultimate
losses recoverable. Actual losses may, however, differ, perhaps materially, from the reserves currently ceded.   

The
Reinsurance Credit Department (RCD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial strength and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RCD monitors
both the financial condition of reinsurers as well as the total reinsurance recoverable ceded to reinsurers, and set limits with regard to the amount and type or exposure we are willing to take with
reinsurers. As part of these assessments, we attempt to identify whether a reinsurer is appropriately licensed, assess its financial capacity and liquidity; and evaluate the local economic and
financial environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RCD reviews the nature of the risks ceded and the need for measures, including collateral to mitigate credit risk. For example, in our
treaty reinsurance contracts, we frequently include provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral or use other measures to reduce exposure when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, we
limit our unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers such as insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in regulatory capital, or specified declines in risk-based
capital (RBC) ratios. We also set maximum limits for reinsurance recoverable exposure, which in some cases is the recoverable amount plus an estimate of the maximum potential exposure from unexpected
events for a reinsurer. In addition, credit executives within ERM review reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approve reinsurer credit limits above specified levels. Finally, even where we
conclude that uncollateralized credit risk is acceptable, we require collateral from active reinsurance counterparties where it is necessary for our subsidiaries to recognize the reinsurance
recoverable assets for statutory accounting purposes. At December 31, 2013, we held $7.5 billion of collateral, in the form of funds withheld, securities in reinsurance trust accounts
and/or irrevocable letters of credit, in support of reinsurance recoverable assets from unaffiliated reinsurers. We believe that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate
concentration of risk to AIG, nor is our business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurance contract.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
174  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

The following table presents information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five percent of our total reinsurance recoverable assets:     

(a)     The
financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of February 11, 2014.   

  (b)     Total
reinsurance assets include both AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement reinsurance recoverable.   

  (c)     Excludes
collateral held in excess of applicable treaty balances.   

  (d)     Includes
$1.6 billion recoverable under the 2011 retroactive reinsurance transaction pursuant to which a large portion of AIG Property Casualty's net domestic asbestos
liabilities were transferred to NICO. Does not include reinsurance assets ceded to other reinsurers for which NICO has assumed the collection risk. See Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment
Expense   Transfer of Domestic Asbestos Liabilities.   

At December 31, 2013, we had no significant general reinsurance recoverable due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled. Reinsurance
underwriting profits in 2013 generally have increased reinsurer capital levels and therefore the industry's underwriting capacity. This increased capacity has resulted in increased competition and
lower rates for 2014 renewals. Reduced profitability associated with lower rates could potentially result in reduced capacity or rating downgrades for some reinsurers. The RCD, in conjunction with the
credit executives within ERM, reviews these developments, monitors compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and seeks to use other appropriate means to
mitigate any material risks arising from these developments.   

  See
Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates   Reinsurance Assets for further discussion of reinsurance recoverable.   

AIG Life and Retirement Key Insurance Risks

For
AIG Life and Retirement, the primary risks are the following:  

Mortality risk      represents the risk of loss arising
from actual mortality rates being higher than expected mortality rates. This risk could arise from pandemics or other events, including longer-term societal changes that cause higher than expected
mortality. This risk exists in a number of our product lines but is most significant for our life insurance products.   
            Longevity risk      represents the risk of a change in
value of a policy arising from actual mortality rates being lower than the expected mortality rates. This risk could arise from longer-term societal health changes as well as other factors. This risk
exists in a number of our product lines but is most significant for our retirement, institutional and annuity products.   
            Client behavioral risk including surrender/lapse risk     
there are many assumptions made when products are sold including how long the contracts will persist. Actual experience can vary significantly from these assumptions. This risk is impacted by a number
of factors including changes in market conditions and policyholder preferences. This risk exists in the majority of our product lines.   
            Interest rate risk      represents the potential for loss
due to a change in interest rates. Interest rate risk is measured with respect to assets, liabilities (both insurance-related and financial), and derivatives. This risk manifests itself when interest
rates move significantly in a short period of time (interest rate shock) but can also manifest itself over a longer period of time such as a persistent low interest rate environment.    
            Equity risk      represents the potential for loss due to
changes in equity prices. It affects equity-linked insurance products, including but not limited to equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities (and associated guaranteed living and death benefits),
universal life insurance, and variable universal life insurance. It also affects our equity    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
175  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

investments
and equity-related investments. In addition, changes in the volatility of equity prices can affect the valuation of those insurance products that are accounted for in a manner similar to
equity derivatives.   

AIG
Life and Retirement manages these risks through product design, experience monitoring, pricing actions, risk limitations, reinsurance and active monitoring and management of the relationships
between assets and liabilities, including hedging. The emergence of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit reserves which could have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated results of operations for a particular period. For a further discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Business and Operations.   

Mortgage Guaranty Key Insurance Risks

For
UGC, risks emanate primarily from the following:  

Mortgage Underwriting risk      represents the potential
exposure to loss due to borrower default on a first-lien residential mortgage; the primary drivers of this risk are home price depreciation, changes in the unemployment rate, changes in mortgage
rates, and a borrower's willingness to pay.   
            Pricing risk      represents the potential exposure to
loss if actual policy experience emerges adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing. This may be related to adverse economic conditions, prepayment of policies, investment
results, and expenses.    

  UGC
manages the quality of the loans it insures through use of a proprietary risk quality index. UGC uses this index to determine an insurability threshold as well as to manage the risk distribution
of its new business. Along with traditional mortgage underwriting variables, UGC's risk-based pricing model uses rating factors such as geography and the historical quality of a lender's origination
process to establish premium rates.   

  UGC's
risk appetite framework establishes various concentration limits on the business UGC insures (for example, geography), and defines underwriting characteristics for which UGC will not insure
loans.   

Other Operations Risks

Global Capital Markets

GCM
actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic losses, and in doing so, GCM must continually manage a variety of exposures including credit, market,
liquidity, operational and legal risks. The senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for GCM's operations. Our senior management has established
various oversight committees to regularly monitor various financial market, operational and credit risks related to GCM's operations. The senior management of GCM reports the results of its operations
to and reviews future strategies with AIG's senior management.   

GCM Derivative Transactions

A
counterparty may default on any obligation to us, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit and/or carrying trading and investment
positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or decrease during the life of the derivative
commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this risk, GCM's credit department operates within the guidelines set by the credit function within ERM. Transactions that
fall outside these pre-established guidelines require the specific approval of ERM. It is also AIG's policy to record credit valuation adjustments for potential counterparty default when necessary.   

  In
addition, GCM utilizes various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives, margin agreements and subordination to reduce the
credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative transactions. GCM requires credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness
of the counterparties, and the transaction's size and maturity. Furthermore, GCM enters into certain agreements that have the benefit of set-off and close-out netting provisions; such as ISDA Master
Agreements, repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, GCM can set off its receivables from a
counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
176  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

  enforceable
netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values.   

  The
fair value of GCM's interest rate, currency, credit, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts reported in Derivative assets, at fair
value, was approximately $1.4 billion at December 31, 2013 and $3.2 billion at December 31, 2012. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with
the respective master netting agreements.   

  GCM
evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating policies of
ERM. In addition, GCM's credit approval process involves pre-set counterparty and country credit exposure limits subject to approval by ERM and, for particularly credit-intensive transactions,
requires approval from ERM.   

   The following table presents the fair value of GCM's derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit rating:     

See Critical Accounting Estimates below and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion related to derivative
transactions.   

Aircraft Leasing

Risks
inherent in ILFC's business, which are managed at the business unit level, include the following:  

that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired;   
           that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees;   
           non-performance by lessees;   
           that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of at the time and in a manner desired;    
           losses on sales or impairment charges and fair value adjustments on older aircraft;
and  
           an inability of ILFC to access the capital markets to finance operations and meet contractual obligations due to
prevailing economic and market conditions.    

  ILFC
uses security deposit requirements, repossession rights and overhaul requirements, while also closely monitoring industry conditions, to manage the risk of nonperformance by its lessees. At
December 31, 2013, more than 93 percent of ILFC's lease revenue came from non-U.S. carriers, and its fleet continues to be in high demand from such carriers. Quarterly, ILFC's management
evaluates the need to perform a recoverability assessment of aircraft in its fleet, including events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft values, and performs this assessment at
least annually for all aircraft in its fleet. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary based on these events and circumstances. As new and more fuel-efficient aircraft enter the
marketplace and negatively affect the demand for older aircraft, lease rates on older aircraft may deteriorate and ILFC may incur additional losses on sales or record impairment charges and fair value
adjustments.   

Corporate   Other

The
major risk for investments in life settlements is longevity risk, which represents the risk of a change in the carrying value of the contracts arising from actual
mortality rates being lower than the expected mortality rates. This risk could arise from longer term societal health changes as well as other factors.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
177  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Critical Accounting Estimates   

  The
preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment.   

The accounting policies that we believe are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, which are critical accounting estimates, are related to the determination
of:     

classification of ILFC as held for sale and related fair value measurement;    
           income tax assets and liabilities, including recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the predictability of future
tax operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;   
           liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense;   
           reinsurance assets;   
           valuation of future policy benefit liabilities and timing and extent of loss recognition;    
           valuation of liabilities for guaranteed benefit features of variable annuity
products:  
           estimated gross profits to value deferred acquisition costs for investment-oriented products;    
           impairment charges, including other-than-temporary impairments on available for sale securities, impairments on
investments in life settlements and goodwill impairment;   
           liability for legal contingencies; and  
           fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities.    

These
accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions
used, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.   

The major assumptions used to establish each critical accounting estimate are discussed below.     

Classification of ILFC as Held for Sale and Related Fair Value Measurement

We
report a business as held for sale when management has approved or received approval to sell the business and is committed to a formal plan, the business is available for
immediate sale, the business is being actively marketed, the sale is anticipated to occur during the next 12 months, which may require significant judgment, and certain other specified criteria
are met. A business classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated
fair value, a loss is recognized.   

  On
December 9, 2012, AIG Parent, AIG Capital Corporation (Seller), a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of AIG Parent and the sole shareholder of ILFC, and Jumbo Acquisition Limited (Jumbo) entered
into a definitive agreement (the Jumbo Share Purchase Agreement) for the sale of 80.1 percent of the common stock of ILFC for approximately $4.2 billion in cash (the ILFC Transaction).
Jumbo was granted an option to purchase an additional 9.9 percent of the common stock of ILFC for $522.5 million (the Option). We determined ILFC met the criteria for held for sale and
discontinued operations accounting at December 31, 2012 and, consequently, we recorded a $4.4 billion after-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2012. As of
December 15, 2013, the closing of the ILFC Transaction had not occurred and on December 16, 2013, AIG Parent and Seller terminated the amended Jumbo Share Purchase Agreement.   

  On
December 16, 2013, AIG Parent and Seller entered into a definitive agreement with AerCap Holdings N.V. (AerCap) and AerCap Ireland Limited for the sale of 100 percent of the
common stock of ILFC (the AerCap Agreement) for consideration consisting of $3.0 billion of cash and approximately 97.6 million newly issued AerCap   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
178  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

  common
shares. The consideration has a value of approximately $5.4 billion based on AerCap's pre-announcement closing price per share of $24.93 on December 13, 2013. Upon closing of the
transaction, AIG will record the 97.6 million AerCap shares received at their then fair value and adjust the final gain (loss) on sale. The transaction is subject to required regulatory
approvals, including all applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory reviews and approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions. The AerCap Transaction was approved by AerCap shareholders on
February 13, 2014. We determined ILFC met the criteria for held-for-sale accounting at December 31, 2013. Because we expect to hold approximately 46 percent of the common stock of
AerCap upon closing of the transaction, however, ILFC does not qualify for discontinued operations presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Consequently, ILFC's operating results are
presented in continuing operations for all periods presented.   

Income Taxes

Recoverability of Net Deferred Tax Asset

The
evaluation of the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a
conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the net deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can
be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed.   

  We
consider a number of factors to reliably estimate future taxable income, so we can determine the extent of our ability to realize net operating losses (NOLs), foreign tax credits (FTCs), capital
loss and other carryforwards. These factors include forecasts of future income for each of our businesses and actual and planned business and operational changes, both of which include assumptions
about future macroeconomic and AIG-specific conditions and events. We subject the forecasts to stresses of key assumptions and evaluate the effect on tax attribute utilization. We also apply stresses
to our assumptions about the effectiveness of relevant prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Our income forecasts, coupled with our tax planning strategies and stress scenarios, all resulted
in sufficient taxable income to achieve realization of the tax attributes (other than capital loss carryforwards) prior to their expiration.   

See
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our framework for assessing the recoverability of our deferred tax asset.   

U.S. Income Taxes on Earnings of Certain Foreign Subsidiaries

The
U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to determining the amount of income taxes related to differences between the book carrying values and tax bases of subsidiaries
are complex. Determining the amount also requires significant judgment and reliance on reasonable assumptions and estimates.   

Insurance Liabilities

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense (AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty)

The
estimate of the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense consists of several key judgments:  

the determination of the actuarial models used as the basis for these estimates;    
           the relative weights given to these models by class;   
           the underlying assumptions used in these models; and  
           the determination of the appropriate groupings of similar classes and, in some cases, the segmentation of dissimilar
claims within a class.    

  We
use numerous assumptions in determining the best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of business and accident year.
Because actual experience can differ from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
179  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

  the
development of loss reserves. This is particularly true for long-tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty, asbestos, D O, and primary or excess workers' compensation.   

All
of our methods to calculate net reserves include assumptions about estimated reinsurance recoveries and their collectability. Reinsurance collectability is evaluated independently of the reserving
process and appropriate allowances for uncollectible reinsurance are established.   

  In
some of our estimation processes we rely on the claims department estimates of our case reserves as an input to our best estimate of the ultimate loss cost.   

Overview of Loss Reserving Process and Methods     

  AIG
Property Casualty loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. Short-tail classes of business consist principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes.
Long-tail casualty classes of business include excess and umbrella liability, D O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers' compensation, general liability, products liability and related
classes.   

Short-Tail Reserves     

   For operations writing short-tail coverages,    such as property coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is generally geared toward
maintaining an appropriate reserve for the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required for a class of property
business might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest year's earned premiums. This level of reserve would generally be maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the
current quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the
particular class of business. For some classes, a loss development factor method may be used.   

Long-Tail Reserves     

   Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long-tail casualty classes of business    is a complex process and depends on a number
of factors, including the class and volume of business, as well as estimates of the reinsurance recoverable. Experience in the more recent accident years shows limited statistical credibility in
reported net losses on long-tail casualty classes of business. That is because a relatively low proportion of net incurred losses represent reported claims and expenses, and an even smaller percentage
represent net losses paid. Therefore, IBNR constitutes a relatively high proportion of net losses.   

   To estimate net losses for long-tail casualty classes of business,    we use a variety of actuarial methods and assumptions and other analytical techniques
as described below. A detailed reserve review is generally performed at least once per year to allow for comprehensive actuarial evaluation and collaboration with claims, underwriting, business unit
management, risk management and senior management.   

   We generally make a number of actuarial assumptions in the review of reserves for each class of business.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
180  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

For longer-tail classes of business, we generally make actuarial assumptions with respect to the following:     

Loss cost trend factors    which are used to establish expected loss ratios
for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratios for prior accident years.   
            Expected loss ratios    for the latest accident year (i.e., accident
year 2013 for the year-end 2013 loss reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from
prior accident years, adjusted for the loss trend and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low-frequency, high-severity classes such as excess casualty,
expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years.   
            Loss development factors    which are used to project the reported losses for
each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the
subsequent accident years.    

We record quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of AIG Property Casualty's classes of business.    The overall change in our loss reserves is based
on the sum of the changes for all classes of business. For most long-tail classes of business, the quarterly loss reserve changes are based on the estimated current loss ratio for each class of
coverage less any amounts paid. Also, any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years deemed to be necessary based on the results of our latest reserve studies or large loss
analysis, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve for the current quarter.   

Details of the Loss Reserving Process     

   The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class of business is based on a variety of factors.    These include considerations such as:
prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; and changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business. Other considerations include actual and anticipated changes in external factors
such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each class of business is intended to represent our best estimate of the current loss ratio after
reflecting all of the relevant factors. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios remain appropriate. This process includes
a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in other factors that may affect the loss
ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio for current business is changed to reflect the revised assumptions.   

   We conduct a comprehensive loss reserve review at least annually for each AIG Property Casualty subsidiary and class of business.    The reserve analysis
for each class of business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most familiar with that class of business. In this process, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions,
including the selection of loss development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial methods for each business class.
Additionally, they must determine the segmentation of data that will enable the most suitable test of reserve adequacy. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews an actuarial central estimate of
the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these central estimates for each class of business provides an overall actuarial central estimate of the loss reserve for that class.   

We
continue to consult with third party environmental litigation and engineering specialists, third party toxic tort claims professionals, third party clinical and public health specialists, third
party workers' compensation claims
adjusters and third party actuarial advisors to help inform our judgments. In 2013, the third party actuarial reviews covered the majority of net reserves held for our Commercial long-tail classes of
business, and run-off portfolios reported in Other.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
181  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

In determining the actual carried reserves, we consider both the internal actuarial central estimate and numerous other internal and external factors, including:     

an assessment of economic conditions;   
           changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment including changes in road safety, public health and
cleanup standards;   
           changes in medical cost trends (inflation, intensity and utilization of medical services) and wage inflation trends;    
           underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions including attachment points and policy limits;    
           claims handling processes and enhancements;   
           third-party claims reviews that are periodically performed for key classes of claims such as toxic tort, environmental and
other complex casualty claims and  
           third-party actuarial reviews that are periodically performed for key classes of business.    

Loss
reserve development can also be affected by commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements.   

Actuarial and Other Methods for Major Classes of Business   

   In testing the reserves for each class of business   , our actuaries determine the most appropriate actuarial methods. This
determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated with the class of business, such as the frequency or severity of the claims. Other factors considered
include the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class, and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class.
In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. For example, we write many unique subclasses of professional liability. For
pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subclass individually. However, for purposes of estimating the loss reserves for many classes of business, we believe
it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into larger groups to produce a greater degree of credibility in the claims experience. This determination of data segmentation and actuarial methods is
carefully
considered for each class of business. The segmentation and actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected to produce the most robust estimate of the loss reserves.   

The actuarial methods we use for most long-tail casualty classes of business include loss development methods, expected loss ratio methods, including "Bornhuetter Ferguson"
methods described below, and frequency/severity models.    Loss development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years to project the reported
losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident years. Loss development methods generally are most appropriate for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss development
from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the classes have similar development characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same
class as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as excess casualty exposures. In 2013, we continued to refine our loss reserving
techniques for the domestic primary casualty classes of business and adopted further segmentations based on our analysis of the differing emerging loss patterns for certain classes of insureds. We
generally use expected loss ratio methods in cases where the reported loss data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new classes of business or for long-tail
classes at early stages of loss development. Frequency/severity models may be used where sufficient frequency counts are available to apply such approaches.   

   Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of business to determine the loss
reserves.    For example, an expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a class of business would generate an ultimate
loss estimate of $7 million. Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would result in the indicated loss reserve for this class. Under the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods, the
expected loss ratio is applied only to the expected unreported portion of   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
182  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

  the
losses. For example, for a long-tail class of business for which only 10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be
applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the
accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be multiplied
by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million. Actual reported
losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the ultimate loss estimate under the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" method would be
$7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" method gives partial credibility to the actual loss
experience to date for the class of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience to date. In the example above, loss development methods would
typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the ultimate losses.   

A
key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or
improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more
weight to the expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged to modify the expected loss ratio to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the
disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if the loss experience is not credible. For
example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it
will continue at later stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods such as "Bornhuetter Ferguson" have the advantage of recognizing large losses without extrapolating
unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year.   

   Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident
year.    Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the
accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is
generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. In certain cases, a structural approach may also be used to
predict the ultimate loss cost. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the
average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average severity to be predictable, the class
of business must consist of homogeneous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low
severity classes of business such as personal auto.   

   Structural drivers analytics seek to explain the underlying drivers of frequency/severity.    A structural drivers analysis of frequency/severity is
particularly useful for understanding the key drivers of uncertainty in the ultimate loss cost. For example, for the excess workers' compensation class of business, we have attempted to corroborate
our judgment by considering the impact on severity of the future propensity for deterioration of an injured worker's medical condition, the impact of price inflation on the various categories of
medical expense and cost of living adjustments on indemnity benefits, the impact of injured worker mortality and claim specific settlement and loss mitigation strategies, etc., using the
following:  

Claim by claim reviews to determine the stability and likelihood of settling an injured worker's indemnity and medical
benefits   the claim file review was facilitated by third party specialists experienced in workers' compensation claims;   
           Analysis of the potential for future deterioration in medical condition unlikely to be picked up by a claim file review
and associated with potentially costly medical procedures (i.e., increases in both utilization and intensity of medical care) over the course of the injured worker's lifetime;    
           Analysis of the cost of medical price inflation for each category of medical spend (services and devices) and for cost of
living adjustments in line with statutory requirements;    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
183  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Portfolio specific mortality level and mortality improvement assumptions based on a mortality study conducted for AIG's
primary and excess workers' compensation portfolios and AIG's opinion of future longevity trends for the open reported cases;   
           Ground-up consideration of the reinsurance recoveries expected for the class of business for reported claims with
extrapolation for unreported claims;   
           The effects of various runoff claims management strategies that have been developed by AIG's run-off unit.    

   Overall, our loss reserve reviews for long-tail classes typically utilize a combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio methods, supplemented by structural
drivers analysis of frequency/severity where available.    Loss development methods are generally given more weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss
experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight where the reported loss experience is less credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio methods
require sufficient information to determine the appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and rate changes as well as
underwriting or other changes which would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss cost trend or loss ratio trend is required to allow for the effect of inflation and other factors
which may increase or otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the next.   

   The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and environmental claims on insurance policies written many years ago is subject to greater uncertainty than other types of
claims.    This is due to inconsistent court decisions, as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the
original intent of such policies or have expanded theories of liability. In addition, reinsurance recoverable balances relating to asbestos and environmental loss reserves are subject to greater
uncertainty due to the underlying age of the claim, underlying legal issues surrounding the nature of the coverage, and determination of proper policy period. For these reasons, these balances tend to
be subject to increased levels of disputes and legal collection activity when actually billed. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability
issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures.   

  We
continue to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste
dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies
written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion for pollution-related damage. An absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. The current
AIG Property Casualty Environmental policies that we specifically price and underwrite for environmental risks on a claims-made basis have been excluded from the analysis.   

  The
majority of our exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. The litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts, with
litigation expenses included within the limits of the liability we incur. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a
case-by-case basis.   

Reserve Estimation for Asbestos and Environmental Claims     

  Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a subjective process. Reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be
estimated using conventional reserving techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos and environmental loss estimates
and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management.   

  Various
factors contribute to the complexity and difficulty in determining the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Significant factors that influence the asbestos and
environmental claims estimation process include court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized
as still evolving, and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues
such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the government's refusal to release parties from liability. Future claims development also will be affected by the
changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and liability issues.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
184  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

If
the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, resulting deficiencies could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations for an individual reporting period.   

  With
respect to known environmental claims, we established over two decades ago a specialized environmental claims unit, which investigates and adjusts all such environmental claims. This unit
evaluates environmental claims utilizing a claim-by-claim approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy terms and exposures. Because each policyholder presents different liability and
coverage issues, we generally evaluate exposure on a policy-by-policy basis, considering a variety of factors such as known facts, current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are
unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques must be supplemented by subjective considerations, including management judgment. Each claim is reviewed at least semi-annually utilizing the
aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information.   

  The
environmental claims unit also actively manages and pursues early resolution with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims.
We attempt to mitigate our known long-tail environmental exposures through a combination of proactive claim-resolution techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental releases,
compromise settlements, and, when appropriate, litigation.   

  Known
asbestos claims are managed in a similar manner. Over two decades ago we established a specialized toxic tort claims unit, which historically investigated and adjusted all such asbestos claims.
As part of the above mentioned NICO transaction, effective January 1, 2011, NICO assumed responsibility for claims handling related to the majority of AIG's domestic asbestos liabilities.   

   The following is a discussion of actuarial methods applied by major class of business:     

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Excess Casualty   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess casualty classes. 
 
Frequency/severity methods are generally not used in isolation to determine ultimate loss costs as the vast majority of reported claims do not result in claim payment. (However, frequency/severity methods assist in the regular monitoring of the
adequacy of carried reserves to support incurred but not reported claims). In addition, the average severity varies significantly from accident year to accident year due to large losses which characterize this class of business, as well as changing
proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment. To gain more stability in the projection, the claims amenable to loss development methods are analyzed in two layers: the layer capped at $10 million and the layer above
$10 million. The expected loss ratio for the layer above $10 million is derived from the expected relationship between the layers, reflecting the attachment point and limit by accident year. 
 
In addition, we leverage case reserving based methodologies for complex claims/ latent exposures such as those involving toxic tort and other claims accumulations.  
      
   Expected loss ratio methods are generally used for at least the three latest accident years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss experience is generally reviewed separately for lead
umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile-related claims are generally reviewed separately from non-auto claims, due to the shorter-tail nature of the automobile-related
claims. Claims relating to certain latent exposures such as construction defects or exhaustion of underlying product aggregate limits are reviewed separately due to the unique emergence patterns of losses relating to these claims. The expected loss
ratios used for recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified. 
 
During 2013, we also completed a third party review of certain insureds exposed to a specific class of toxic tort claims. That review considered the prior claims history for each insured account, AIG's exposed limits and the insured's role with the
specific toxicant reviewed as well as a legal analysis of the exposures presented by these claims.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
185  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for D O and related management liability classes of business. 
 
Frequency/severity methods are generally not used in isolation for these classes as the overall losses are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to accident year and care is
required in analyzing these trends by claim type. We also give weight to claim department ground-up projections of ultimate loss on a claim by claim basis as these may be more predictive of ultimate loss values especially for older accident
years.  
      
   These classes of business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low frequency and high severity. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two most recent accident years, whereas
loss development methods are given more weight in more mature accident years. For the year-end 2013 loss reserve review, claims projections for accident years 2012 and prior were used.  

Workers' Compensation   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for workers' compensation. We segment the data by state and industry class to the extent that meaningful differences are
determined to exist.  
      
   Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers' compensation claims are generally characterized by high frequency, low severity, and relatively
consistent loss development from one accident year to the next. We historically have been a leading writer of workers' compensation, and thus have sufficient volume of claims experience to use development methods. We generally segregate California
business from other business in evaluating workers' compensation reserves. In 2012, we segmented out New York from the other states to reflect its different development pattern and changing percentage of the mix by state. We also revised our
assumptions to reflect changes in our claims management activities. Certain classes of workers' compensation, such as construction, are also evaluated separately. Additionally, we write a number of very large accounts which include workers'
compensation coverage. These accounts are generally individually priced by our actuaries, and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis may be used to record the initial estimated loss reserves for these
accounts.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
186  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Excess Workers' Compensation   

We historically have used a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess workers' compensation. For the year-end 2013 loss reserve review, our actuaries supplemented the methods
used historically by applying a structural drivers approach to inform their judgment of the ultimate loss costs for open reported claims from accident years 2003 and prior and used the refined analysis to help inform their judgment of the ultimate
loss cost for claims that have not yet been reported using a frequency/severity approach for these accident years.  
      
   Excess workers' compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. The class is highly sensitive to small changes in assumptions   in the rate of medical
inflation or the longevity of injured workers, for example   which can have a significant effect on the ultimate reserve estimate. Claims estimates for this line also are highly sensitive to:                  the assumed future rate of inflation and other economic conditions in the United
States;                   changes in the legal,
regulatory, judicial and social environment;                   the expected impact of recently enacted health care reform on workers' compensation costs;                   underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions;                   claims settlement trends that can materially alter the mix and ultimate cost of claims;                   changes in claims reporting and management practices of insureds and their
third-party administrators;                   the cost
of new and additional treatment specialties, such as "pain management";              
    the propensity for severely injured workers' medical conditions to deteriorate in the future;         
         changes in injured worker longevity; and       
           territorial experience differences (across states and within regions in a state).  

Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent accident years. For the year-end 2013 loss reserve review, the structural drivers approach which was applied to open reported claims from
accident years 2003 and prior, was deemed to be most suitable for informing our judgment of the ultimate loss cost for injured workers whose medical conditions had largely stabilized (i.e., at least 9 to 10 years have elapsed since the date
of injury). The reserve for accident years 2004 and subsequent was determined using a Bornhuetter Ferguson expected loss ratio method.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
187  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

General Liability   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for primary general liability or products liability classes. We also supplement the standard actuarial techniques by using
evaluations of the ultimate losses on unusual claims or claim accumulations by external specialists on those classes of claims. The segmentation of the data reflects state differences, industry classes, deductible/non-deductible programs and type of
claim.  
      
   For certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight for all but the most recent one or two accident years. For smaller or more volatile classes of
business, loss development methods may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods are used for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss experience for primary general
liability business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. Additionally, certain sub-classes, such as construction, are generally reviewed separately from business in other
subclasses. In 2013, we continued to refine our loss reserving techniques for the domestic primary casualty classes of business and adopted further segmentations based on our analysis of the differing emerging loss patterns for certain classes of
insureds. Due to the fairly long-tail nature of general liability business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less credibility given to the reported losses and increased reliance on expected loss ratio methods for
recent accident years.  

Commercial Automobile Liability   

We generally use loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year for commercial automobile liability classes of business.  
      
   Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only in the most recent accident year.  

Healthcare   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for healthcare classes of business. 
 
Frequency/severity methods are sometimes used for pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, for loss reserve adequacy testing, the need to ensure sufficient credibility generally results in segmentations that are not sufficiently
homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods. 
 
We also supplement the standard actuarial techniques by using evaluations of the ultimate losses on unusual claims by specialists on those classes of claims.  
      
   The largest component of the healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals and other healthcare facilities. We test reserves for excess coverage separately from those for primary coverage. For primary
coverages, loss development methods are generally given the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident years, and are given some weight for all years other than the latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss methods
are generally given all the weight for the latest three accident years, and are also given considerable weight for accident years prior to the latest three years. For other classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between loss
development and expected loss ratio methods is used. The weights assigned to each method are those that are believed to result in the best combination of responsiveness and credibility.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
188  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Professional Liability   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for professional liability classes of business. 
 
Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of professional liability; however, for loss reserve adequacy testing, the need to ensure sufficient credibility generally results in segmentations that are
not sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods. 
 
We also use claim department projections of the ultimate value of each reported claim to supplement and inform the standard actuarial approaches.  
      
   Loss development methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for claims made classes
and classes written on occurrence policy forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of the data.  

Catastrophic Casualty   

We use expected loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty or financial lines coverage that attach in excess of very high attachment
points; thus the claims experience is marked by very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number of claims, loss development methods are not relied upon.  
      
   The expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions used are based upon the results of prior accident years for this business as well as for similar classes of business written above lower attachment points. The
business can be written on a claims-made or occurrence basis. We use ground-up claim projections provided by our claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate reserve.  

Aviation   

We generally use a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long-tail in nature; however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a
combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves. 
 
Frequency/severity methods are not employed due to the high severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from year to year.  
      
   Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss reserves for the latest accident year. We also use ground-up claim projections provided by our claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate
reserve.  

Personal Auto   

We generally use frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for domestic personal auto classes.  
      
   For many classes of business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and comparisons to
industry and other diagnostic metrics.  

Fidelity/Surety   

We generally use loss development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident year. For surety exposures, we generally use the same method as for short-tail classes (discussed below).  
      
   Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the more recent accident years. For the latest accident year they may be given 100 percent weight.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
189  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Mortgage Guaranty   

We test mortgage guaranty reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the mortgage guaranty business.  
      
   The reserve analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of several categories of delinquency based on actual historical experience, using primarily a frequency/severity loss development approach.
Additional reserve tests are also employed, such as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are reviewed separately for each line of business considering the loss development characteristics, volume of claim data available and
applicability of various actuarial methods to each line.  

Reserves for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses are established for reported mortgage loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been incurred but have not been reported
by loan servicers, based upon historical reporting trends. We establish reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon projected claim experience for each category of delinquency,
consistent in total with the overall reserve estimate.  

Mortgage Guaranty losses and loss adjustment expenses have been affected by macroeconomic events, such as improving home prices and decreasing unemployment. Because these macroeconomic events are subject to adverse or
favorable change, the determination of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses requires a high degree of judgment. Responding to previous periods of adverse macroeconomic influences, numerous government and lender loan modification programs
have been implemented to mitigate mortgage losses. The loan modification programs along with improving home values and declining unemployment have produced higher cure rates of delinquent loans in 2013, particularly in the most recent accident
periods that may not continue in 2014. In addition, these loan modifications may re-default resulting in new losses for Mortgage Guaranty if adverse economic conditions were to return. In addition to improved cure rates, the favorable economic
conditions have resulted in a decline of newly reported delinquencies. The declining new delinquencies and improved cure rates have combined to reduce UGC's first-lien delinquency rate to 5.9 percent at year end 2013, which is the lowest level
reported since 2007. Offsetting these favorable trends were lender's efforts to overturn previously denied and rescinded claims.  

Occurrences of fraudulent loans, underwriting violations, and other deviations from contractual terms, mostly related to the 2006 and 2007 blocks of business, resulted in historically high levels of claim rescissions
and denials (collectively referred to as rescissions) during 2011 and 2012. As a result, many lenders have increased their efforts to provide missing documents or appeal rescissions. The lender's success at tracking down missing loan documents along
with the heightened focus on appeals of rescissions have significantly reduced the future rescission rate (net of appeals) assumed in the loss reserves to an immaterial level, particularly on the older accident periods. As a result, UGC experienced
some unfavorable loss development on older accident periods during the quarter. We believe we have provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans, consistent with industry practices.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
190  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method     

Application of Actuarial Method     

Other Short-Tail Classes   

We generally use either loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for short-tail classes such as property coverages.  
      
   Where a factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR for a class of property
coverage might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest year's earned premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could affect the adequacy of the
IBNR factor being employed.  

International   

Business written by AIG Property Casualty internationally includes both long-tail and short-tail classes of business. For long-tail classes of business, the actuarial methods used are comparable to those described
above. However, the majority of business written by AIG Property Casualty internationally is short-tail, high frequency and low severity in nature. For this business, loss development methods are generally employed to test the loss
reserves.  
      
   We maintain a database of detailed historical premium and loss transactions in original currency for business written by AIG Property Casualty internationally. This allows our actuaries to determine the current
reserves without any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. Our actuaries segment the international data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between homogeneity and credibility. The
techniques developed by our U.S. actuaries for certain commercial classes of business are increasingly applied to our International portfolios where the experience volume and data segmentation is comparable to that of the U.S. portfolios. Our
actuaries work closely with the claims departments in each of our major International locations to determine the most appropriate methodology and assumptions.  

Loss Adjustment Expenses   

We determine reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial or structural driver methods. The methods generally include development methods
comparable to those described for loss development methods. The development could be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both. Other methods include the utilization of
expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of business.  
      
   We generally determine reserves for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of business. We generally determine reserves for
other unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This determination is generally done for all classes of business combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a
percent of losses paid. We may supplement our judgments with an analysis of loss and legal expense mix change and detailed discussions with the claims department on the methods used to allocate the costs of the claims initiatives to new and in-force
business and to different classes and sub-classes of business.  

Catastrophes and Severe Losses   

We conduct special analyses in response to major catastrophes and severe losses to estimate our gross and net loss and loss expense liability from those events.  
      
   These analyses may include a combination of approaches, including modeling estimates, ground-up claim analysis, loss evaluation reports from on-site field adjusters, and market share estimates.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
191  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Alternative Loss Cost Trend and Loss Development Factor Assumptions by Class of Business

For
classes of business other than the classes discussed below, there is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and loss development factor assumptions.   

The effect of these deviations is expected to be smaller than the effect on the classes noted below     

Loss cost trends:     The percentage
deviations noted in the table below are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what we consider to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation.
Actual loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several years whereas actual loss cost trends exceeded the figures cited below for several other years. Loss trends may deviate by more
than the amounts noted above and discussed below.     

Loss development factors:     The
percentage deviations noted in the table below are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what we consider to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential
deviation. While multiple scenarios are performed, the assumed loss development factors are a key assumption. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss
development. Future loss development patterns may be different from those in the past, or may deviate by more than the amounts noted above and discussed below.    

AIG's
loss reserve analyses do not generally provide a range of loss reserve estimates. A large portion of the loss reserves from AIG Property Casualty business relates to longer-tail casualty classes
of business, such as excess casualty and D O, which are driven by severity rather than frequency of claims. Using the reserving methodologies described above, our actuaries determine their actuarial
central estimates of the loss reserves and advise management on their final recommendation for management's best estimate of the recorded reserves. Subject matter experts from underwriting and claims
play an important part in informing the actuarial assumptions and methods. The governance process over the establishment of loss reserves also ensures robust considerations of the changes in the loss
trends, terms and conditions, claims handling practices, and large loss impact when determining the methods, assumptions and the estimations. This multi-disciplinary process engages underwriting,
claims, risk management, business unit executives and senior management and involves several iterative levels of feedback and response during the regular reserving process.   

  The
sensitivity analysis below addresses each major class of business for which there is a possibility of a material deviation from our overall reserve position. The analysis uses what we believe is a
reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class. Actual reserve development may not be consistent with either the original or the   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
192  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

adjusted
loss trend or loss development factor assumptions, and other assumptions made in the reserving process may materially affect reserve development for a particular class of business.   

Class of Business     

Loss Cost Trend     

Loss Development Factor     

Excess Casualty   

The assumed loss cost trend was approximately five percent in the 2013 reserve review. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in our judgment, it is
reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2013 loss reserve review for excess casualty will range from 0 percent to positive ten percent. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the excess casualty class of
business due to the long-tail nature of the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years (the expected loss ratio years) to be significantly
affected by changes in loss cost trends that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic conditions
affecting claims.  
      
   After evaluating the historical loss development factors from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately
3.4 percent below those actually utilized in the year-end 2013 reserve review to approximately 6.0 percent above those factors actually utilized. Excess casualty is a long-tail class of business and any deviation in loss development factors
might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years to be
significantly affected by changes in loss development factors that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other
social or economic conditions affecting claims.  

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business   

The assumed loss cost trend was approximately half of one percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, including the potential effect of recent claims
relating to the credit crisis, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2013 loss reserve review for these classes will range from approximately 28 percent lower or 25.5 percent higher
than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2013 reserve review. Because the D O class of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one accident year to the next, there is the possibility of an exceptionally high
deviation.  
      
   The assumed loss development factors are also an important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty. Because these classes are written on a claims made basis, the loss reporting and development tail is
much shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims does create the potential for significant deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating the historical loss development
factors for these classes of business for accident years since the early 1990s, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 8.5 percent lower to 16 percent higher than those
factors actually utilized in the year-end 2013 loss reserve review for these classes.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
193  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Class of Business     

Loss Cost Trend     

Loss Development Factor     

Primary Workers' Compensation   

The loss cost trend assumption is not believed to be material with respect to our loss reserves. This is primarily because our actuaries are generally able to use loss development projections for all but the most
recent accident year's reserves, so there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers' compensation business.  
      
   Generally, our actual historical workers' compensation loss development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers' compensation is a long-tail
class of business, and our business reflects a very significant volume of losses, particularly in recent accident years. After evaluating the actual historical loss development since the 1980s for this business, in our judgment, it is reasonably
likely that actual loss development factors will fall within the range of approximately 4.5 percent below to 6.2 percent above those actually utilized in the year-end 2013 loss reserve review.  

Excess Workers' Compensation   

Loss costs were trended at six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the past ten years, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end
2013 loss reserve review for excess workers' compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend.  
      
   Excess workers' compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss development. After
evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior accident years since the 1980s as well as the development over the past several years of the ground up claim projections utilized to help select the loss development factors in the tail for
this class of business, in our judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development for excess workers' compensation could increase the current reserves by up to approximately $1.3 billion or decrease them by approximately
$850 million.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
194  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

   The following sensitivity analysis table summarizes the effect on the loss reserve position of using certain alternative loss cost trend
(for accident years where we use expected loss ratio methods) or loss development factor assumptions rather than the assumptions actually used in determining our estimates in the year-end loss reserve
analyses in 2013.     

(a)  Loss
cost trend assumption does not have a material impact for this line of business.   

  (b)  Percentages
not applicable due to extremely long-tailed nature of workers' compensation.   

Reinsurance Assets

The
estimation of reinsurance recoverable involves a significant amount of judgment, particularly for latent exposures, such as asbestos, due to their long-tail nature. Reinsurance assets include
reinsurance recoverable on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses that are estimated as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, are subject to similar judgments and uncertainties as
the estimation of gross loss reserves.   

  We
assess the collectability of reinsurance recoverable balances through either detailed reviews of the underlying nature of the reinsurance balance or comparisons with historical trends of disputes
and credit events. We record adjustments to reflect the results of these assessments through an allowance for uncollectable reinsurance that reduces the carrying value of reinsurance assets in the
balance sheet. This estimate requires significant judgment for which key considerations include:  

paid and unpaid amounts recoverable;   
           whether the balance is in dispute or subject to legal collection;   
           whether the reinsurer is financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to
formal or informal regulatory restriction); and   
           whether collateral and collateral arrangements exist.    

At
December 31, 2013, the allowance for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance was $276 million.   

  See
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on reinsurance.   

Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts (AIG Life and Retirement)

Long-duration traditional products    include whole life insurance, term life insurance, accident and health insurance, long-term care insurance, and
certain payout annuities for which the payment period is life-contingent, which include certain of our single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements.   

   For long-duration traditional business, a "lock-in" principle applies.    The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set when a
policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience,   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
195  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

unless
a loss recognition event occurs. The assumptions include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns. These assumptions are typically consistent with pricing
inputs. The assumptions
also include margins for adverse deviation, principally for key assumptions such as mortality and interest rates used to discount cash flows, to reflect uncertainty given that actual experience might
deviate from these assumptions. Establishing margins at contract inception requires management judgment. The extent of the margin for adverse deviation may vary depending on the uncertainty of the
cash flows, which is affected by the volatility of the business and the extent of our experience with the product.   

  Loss
recognition occurs if observed changes in actual experience or estimates result in projected future losses under loss recognition testing. To determine whether loss recognition exists, we
determine whether a future loss is expected based on updated current assumptions. If a loss recognition exists, we recognize the loss by first reducing DAC through amortization expense, and, if DAC is
depleted, record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on loss recognition.
Because of the long-term nature of many of our liabilities subject to the "lock-in" principle, small changes in certain assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In
particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset returns have a large effect on the degree of reserve deficiency.   

  Groupings
for loss recognition testing are consistent with our manner of acquiring and servicing the business and applied by product groupings. We perform separate loss recognition tests for
traditional life products, payout annuities, and long-term care insurance. Once loss recognition has been recorded for a block of business, the old assumption set is replaced and the assumption set
used for the loss recognition would then be subject to the lock-in principle. Key judgments made in loss recognition tests include the following:  

To determine investment returns used in loss recognition tests, we typically segregate assets that match liabilities and
then project future cash flows on those assets. Our projections include a reasonable allowance for investment expenses and expected credit losses over the projection horizon. A critical assumption in
the projection of expected investment income is the assumed net rate of investment return at which excess cash flows are to be reinvested. For products in which asset and liability durations are
matched relatively well, this is less of a consideration since interest on excess cash flows are not a significant component of future cash flows. For the reinvestment rate assumption, anticipated
future changes to the yield curves could have a large effect. Given the interest rate environment applicable at the date of our loss recognition tests, we assumed a modest and gradual increase in
long-term interest rates over time.   
           For mortality assumptions, key judgments include the extent of industry versus own experience to base future assumptions
as well as the extent of expected mortality improvements in the future. The latter judgment is based on a combination of historical mortality trends, advice from industry public health and demography
specialists that were consulted by AIG's actuaries and published industry information.   
           For surrender rates, a key judgment involves the correlation between expected increases/decreases in interest rates and
increases/decreases in surrender rates. To support this judgment, we compare crediting rates on our products relative to expected rates on competing products under different interest scenarios.    
           For in-force long-term care insurance, rate increases are allowed but must be approved by state insurance regulators.
Consequently, the extent of rate increases that may be assumed requires judgment. In establishing our assumption for rate increases for long-term care insurance, we consider historical experience as
to the frequency and level of rate increases approved by state regulators.    

  In
connection with our program to utilize capital loss carryforwards, we sold investment securities in 2013 and 2012. These and other investment sales with subsequent reinvestment at lower yields
triggered recording of loss recognition reserves of $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion, primarily related to certain long-term payout annuity contracts, in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  Significant
unrealized appreciation on investments in a prolonged low interest rate environment may cause DAC to be adjusted and additional future policy benefit liabilities to be recorded through a
charge directly to accumulated other comprehensive income ("shadow loss recognition"). These charges are included, net of tax, with the change in net unrealized appreciation of investments. See
Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on shadow loss recognition. In applying shadow loss recognition, the Company overlays unrealized gains onto loss
recognition tests without revising the underlying test. Accordingly, there is limited additional judgment in this process.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
196  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity Products (AIG Life and Retirement)

Variable
annuity products offered by our Retirement Income Solutions and Group Retirement product lines offer guaranteed benefit features. These guaranteed features include guaranteed minimum death
benefits (GMDB) and guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) that are payable in the event of death, and living benefits that are payable in the event of annuitization, or, in other instances, at
specified dates during the accumulation period. Living benefits include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). See Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these features. At December 31, 2013, variable annuity account values subject to these features included $63 billion with
GMDB, $3 billion with GMIB, $28 billion with GMWB and $627 million with GMAV. For GMDB, our most widely offered guaranteed benefit feature, the liabilities included in Future
policyholder benefits at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $355 million and $374 million, respectively.   

The
liabilities for GMDB and GMIB, which are recorded in Future policyholder benefits, represent the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized
ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments, through Policyholder benefits and claims. The liabilities for GMWB and GMAV, which are recorded in Policyholder contract
deposits, are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in Other realized capital gains (losses).   

  Our
exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder's account balance is below the amount provided by the guaranteed feature. A variable annuity contract may
include more than one type of guaranteed benefit feature; for example, it may have both a GMDB and a GMWB. However, a policyholder can only receive payout from one guaranteed feature on a contract
containing a death benefit and a living benefit, i.e. the features are mutually exclusive, so the exposure to the guaranteed amount for each feature is not additive to that of other features. A
policyholder cannot purchase more than one living benefit on one contract. Declines in the equity markets, increased volatility and a sustained low interest rate environment increase our exposure to
potential benefits under the guaranteed features, leading to an increase in the liabilities for those benefits. See Critical Accounting Estimates   Estimated Gross Profits for
Investment-Oriented Products herein for sensitivity analysis which includes the sensitivity of reserves for guaranteed benefit features to changes in the assumptions for equity market returns,
volatility and mortality. For a further discussion of the risks related to guaranteed benefit features of variable annuities, our dynamic hedging program and risks of AIG's unhedged exposures, see
Item 1A.   Risk Factors   Business and Operations.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
197  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

The
reserving methodology and assumptions used to measure the liabilities of our two largest guaranteed benefit features are presented in the following table:   

Reserving Methodology     

Assumptions and Accounting Judgments     

GMDB   

We determine the GMDB liability at each balance sheet date by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected fees. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on how we reserve for variable annuity products with guaranteed benefit
features.  
     
  Key assumptions include:               
  Interest rates, which vary by year of issuance and products                   Mortality rates, which are based upon actual experience modified to allow for variations in policy form                   Lapse rates, which are based upon actual experience modified to allow for
variations in policy form                   Investment
returns, using assumptions from a randomly generated model                   In applying asset growth assumptions for the valuation of the GMDB liability, we use a "reversion to the mean" methodology, similar to that applied for DAC. For a description of this methodology, see Estimated Gross
Profits for Investment-Oriented Products (AIG Life and Retirement) below.  

GMWB   

GMWB living benefits are embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value. The fair value estimates
of the living benefit guarantees include assumptions such as equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, and policyholder behavior. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on how we reserve
for variable annuity products with guaranteed benefit features, and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurement of these embedded derivatives, including how AIG incorporates its own non-performance
risk.  
     
  The fair value of the embedded derivatives is based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. Key assumptions include:   
              Equity market returns                    Interest rates                    Market volatility                    Benefits and related fees assessed, when applicable 
                  Policyholder behavior, including
mortality, exercise of guarantees and policy lapses. Estimates of future policyholder behavior are subjective and based primarily on our historical experience.                   In applying asset growth assumptions for the valuation of GMWBs, we use
market-consistent assumptions consistent with fair value measurement.  

Estimated Gross Profits for Investment   Oriented Products (AIG Life and Retirement)

Policy
acquisition costs and policy issuance costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal of existing insurance contracts related to universal life
and investment-type products (collectively, investment-oriented products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over a
period that approximates the estimated lives of the contracts. Estimated gross profits include net investment income and spreads, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges,
expenses, and mortality gains and losses. In estimating future gross profits, lapse assumptions require   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
198  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

judgment
and can have a material impact on DAC amortization. For fixed deferred annuity contracts, the future spread between investment income and interest credited to policyholders is a significant
judgment, particularly in a low interest rate environment.   

  If
the assumptions used for estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC and related reserves, including VOBA, SIA, guaranteed benefit reserves and unearned revenue reserves (URR), are
recalculated using the new
assumptions, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. Updating such assumptions may result in acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other
products. In the third quarter of 2013, we completed our comprehensive annual review and update of estimated gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items for our investment-oriented
products. The result of this review was a $118 million net increase in pre-tax operating income in 2013, which included a $198 million net increase in our Retail operating segment and an
$80 million decrease in our Institutional operating segment. The net increase in Retail pre-tax operating income was primarily due to a favorable adjustment in our Fixed Annuities product line
from updated spread assumptions due to active management of crediting rates and higher future investment yields than those previously assumed. In the Life Insurance and A H, Retirement Income
Solutions and Group Retirement product lines, the update of assumptions for variable annuity spreads, surrender rates, and life insurance mortality had an unfavorable impact on pre-tax operating
income. The life insurance mortality assumptions, while unfavorable compared to the previous assumption set, are still within pricing expectations.   

The
$118 million increase in pre-tax operating income to reflect updated assumptions was comprised of three favorable developments, a $98 million net decrease in DAC amortization
expense, a $61 million decrease in SIA amortization expense within Interest credited to policyholder account balances, and a $28 million increase in unearned revenue amortization within
Policy fees; partially offset by a $69 million increase in Future policy benefits for life and health insurance contracts.   

  In
estimating future gross profits for variable annuity products, a long-term annual asset growth assumption of 8.5% (before expenses that reduce the asset base from which future fees are projected)
is applied to estimate the future growth in assets and related asset-based fees. In determining the asset growth rate, the effect of short-term fluctuations in the equity markets is partially
mitigated through the use of a "reversion to the mean" methodology, whereby short-term asset growth above or below the long-term annual rate assumption impact the growth assumption applied to the
five-year period subsequent to the current balance sheet date. The reversion to the mean methodology allows us to maintain our long-term growth assumptions, while also giving consideration to the
effect of actual investment performance. When actual performance significantly deviates from the annual long-term growth assumption, as evidenced by growth assumptions for the five-year reversion to
the mean period falling below a certain rate (floor) or above a certain rate (cap) for a sustained period, judgment may be applied to revise or "unlock" the growth rate assumptions to be used for both
the five-year reversion to the mean period as well as the long-term annual growth assumption applied to subsequent periods. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry;
however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment and vary within the industry.   

  In
the fourth quarter of 2013, we revised the growth rate assumptions for the five-year reversion to the mean period for the Group Retirement product line, because annual growth assumptions indicated
for this period had fallen below our floor of zero percent due to the recent favorable performance of equity markets. For this five-year reversion to the mean period, the growth rate assumption was
adjusted to a point between the long-term growth rate assumption and zero percent. This adjustment, which increased DAC by $31 million, increased SIA by $2 million and reduced the GMDB
liability by $2 million, was recorded as a decrease in current period amortization expense, and increased pre-tax income by $35 million in 2013. Had we readjusted the growth rate
assumption for the five-year reversion to the mean period to use the long-term rate assumption of 8.5%, pre-tax income would have been higher by approximately $30 million. Conversely, had the
growth rate assumption for the five-year reversion to the mean period been readjusted to a floor of zero percent, pre-tax income would have been lower by approximately $30 million. For variable
annuities in our Retirement Income Solutions product line, the assumed annual growth rate remained above zero percent for the five-year reversion to the mean period so it did not meet our criteria for
adjustment; however, additional favorable equity market performance in excess of long-term assumptions could also result in "unlocking" in this product line in future periods with a positive effect on
pre-tax income in the period of the unlocking.   

   The following table summarizes the sensitivity of changes in certain assumptions in the amortization of DAC/SIA, guaranteed benefit reserves and unearned revenue liability and
the related hypothetical impact on year-end 2013 balances. The effect of changes in net investment spread primarily affects our Fixed Annuities     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
199  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

product line. Changes in the equity markets and volatility primarily impact individual variable annuities in our Retirement Income Solutions and Group Retirement product lines. The effect of changes
in mortality primarily impacts the universal life insurance business.   

(a)  Represents
the net impact of 1 percent increase or decrease in long-term equity returns for GMDB and GMIB reserves and negligible net impact of 1 percent increase or
decrease in the S P 500 index for living benefit reserves.   

  (b)  Represents
the net impact of 1 percentage point increase or decrease in implied volatility.   

The analysis of DAC, guaranteed benefits reserve and unearned revenue liability is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions
described above. We estimate each of the above factors individually, without the effect of any correlation among the key assumptions. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single
assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results.   

Impairment Charges

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on Available For Sale Securities

At
each balance sheet date, we evaluate our available for sale securities holdings with unrealized losses.   

  See
the discussion in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by security type, that we use to determine the amount
of other-than-temporary impairment on fixed maturity and equity securities.   

Impairments on Investments in Life Settlements

For
a discussion of impairments on investments in life settlements, see Investments in this MD A and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Goodwill Impairment

For
a discussion of goodwill impairment, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2013 and 2012, AIG elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and therefore, performed
quantitative assessments that supported a conclusion that the fair value of each of the two reporting units tested exceeded their book value. In determining fair value, we primarily use a discounted
expected future cash flow analysis based on AIG's business projections that inherently include judgments regarding business trends.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
200  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

Liability for Legal Contingencies

We
estimate and record a liability for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent such losses are probable and can be estimated. Determining a reasonable
estimate of the amount of such losses requires significant management judgment. In many cases, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the ultimate or
minimum amount of that liability until the matter is close to resolution. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases that are in the early
stages of litigation or in which claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages, we often cannot predict the outcome or estimate the eventual loss or range of reasonably possible losses related
to such matters.   

  See
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities

See
Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the measurement of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities and our accounting policy
regarding the incorporation of credit risk in fair value measurements.   

   The following table presents the fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities by source of value determination:   

(a)  Includes
$26.5 billion for which the primary source is broker quotes.   

  (b)  Includes
available for sale and other securities.   

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities

Assets
and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three "levels" based on the
observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

The following table presents the amount of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3:   

Level 3 fair value measurements are based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant input that is unobservable. We consider unobservable
inputs to be those for which market data is not available and that are developed using the best information available about the assumptions that market participants would use when valuing the asset or
liability. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment.   

We
classify fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities as Level 3 when they require significant unobservable inputs in their valuation, including contractual terms, prices and
rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates, default rates, mortality rates and correlations of such inputs.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
201  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7 / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

  The following paragraphs describe the methods we use to measure fair value on a recurring basis for super senior credit default swaps classified in
Level 3. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the valuation methodologies for other assets classified in Level 3, including certain fixed maturity
securities and certain other invested assets, as well as a discussion of transfers of Level 3 assets and liabilities.   

Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio

Certain
entities included in GCM wrote credit protection on the super senior risk layer of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), multi-sector CDOs and diversified portfolios of corporate debt and
prime residential mortgages through 2006. In these transactions, we are at risk of credit performance on the super senior risk layer related to such assets.   

  See
Notes 5 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the regulatory capital, multi-sector CDO, corporate debt/ CLO and other portfolios.   

  We
utilize sensitivity analyses that estimate the effects of using alternative pricing and other key inputs on our calculation of the unrealized market valuation loss related to the super senior
credit default swap portfolio. For the purposes of estimating sensitivities for the super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, the change in valuation derived using the Binomial
Expansion Technique (BET) model is used to estimate the change in the fair value of the derivative liability. Of the total $3.3 billion net notional amount of CDS written on multi-sector CDOs
outstanding at December 31, 2013, a BET value is available for $2.2 billion net notional amount. No BET value is determined for $1.1 billion of CDS written on European
multi-sector CDOs because prices on the underlying securities held by these CDOs are not provided by collateral managers; instead these CDS are valued using counterparty prices. Therefore,
sensitivities disclosed below apply only to the net notional amount of $2.2 billion.   

   The following table presents key inputs used in the BET model, and the potential increase (decrease) to the fair value of the derivative liability by ABS category at
December 31, 2013 corresponding to changes in these key inputs:   

(a)  The
diversity score is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible.   

  (b)  The
discount curve is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible. Furthermore, for this input it is not possible to
disclose a weighted average input because a discount curve consists of a series of data points.   

These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that the actual
levels of the key inputs will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges
assumed by us for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from the use of other changes in these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the
results set forth above.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
202  

Table of Contents    

GLOSSARY    

Glossary   

Accident year    The annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses
are actually reported, booked or paid.   

Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted    the combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development,
net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting.   

   Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted    the loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of
premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting.   

   Acquisition ratio    acquisition costs divided by net premiums earned. Acquisition costs are those costs incurred to acquire new and renewal insurance
contracts and also include the amortization of value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC). Acquisition costs vary with sales and include, but are not limited to,
commissions, premium taxes, direct marketing costs, certain costs of personnel engaged in sales support activities such as underwriting, and the change in DAC. Acquisition costs that are incremental
and directly related to successful sales efforts are deferred and recognized over the coverage periods of related insurance contracts. Acquisition costs that are not incremental and directly related
to successful sales efforts are recognized as incurred.   

   Additional premium/Return premium    is a premium due either to or from an insured as a result of a change in coverage (e.g. increase or decrease in
limits or risk) or cancellation of an existing policy. In addition, certain policies provide for adjustments to the original premium amount charged based on the experience of the policy,
e.g. workers' compensation policies and loss sensitive policies where changes to the original premium are based on variances of the loss history against estimates built into the determination
of the original premium.   

   AIG   After-tax operating income (loss) attributable to AIG    is derived by excluding the following items from net income (loss)
attributable to AIG: income (loss) from discontinued operations, net loss (gain) on sale of divested businesses and properties, income from divested businesses, legacy tax adjustments primarily
related to certain changes in uncertain tax positions and other tax adjustments, legal reserves (settlements) related to "legacy crisis matters," deferred income tax valuation allowance (releases)
charges, changes in fair value of AIG Life and Retirement fixed maturity securities designated to hedge living benefit liabilities (net of interest expense), changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA,
and sales inducement assets (SIA) related to net realized capital (gains) losses, AIG Property Casualty other (income) expense   net, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt,
net realized capital (gains) losses, non-qualifying derivative hedging activities, excluding net realized capital (gains) losses, and bargain purchase gain. "Legacy crisis matters" include favorable
and unfavorable settlements related to events leading up to and resulting from our September 2008 liquidity crisis and legal fees incurred by AIG as the plaintiff in connection with such legal
matters.   

   AIG Life and Retirement             Pre-tax operating income (loss)    Pre-tax operating
income (loss) is derived by excluding the following items from pre-tax income (loss): legal settlements related to legacy crisis matters, changes in fair values of fixed maturity securities designated
to hedge living benefit liabilities (net of interest expense), net realized capital (gains) losses, and changes in benefit reserves and DAC, VOBA, and SIA related to net realized capital (gains)
losses.   

   AIG Life and Retirement             Premiums and deposits    includes direct and assumed
amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life, investment-type
annuity contracts, guaranteed investment contracts and mutual funds.   

   AIG Life and Retirement             Surrender rate    represents annualized surrenders and
withdrawals as a percentage of average reserves.   

   AIG Property Casualty             Net premiums written    represent the sales of an
insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net premiums earned are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are
a measure of performance for a sales period while Net premiums earned are a measure of performance for a coverage period. From the period in which the premiums are written until the period in which
they are earned, the amount is presented as Unearned premium reserves in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

   AIG Property Casualty             Pre-tax operating income (loss)    includes both
underwriting income (loss) and net investment income, but excludes net realized capital (gains) losses, other (income) expense   net, legal settlements   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
203  

Table of Contents     

GLOSSARY    

related
to legacy crisis matters and bargain purchase gain. Underwriting income (loss) is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred, acquisition
expenses and general operating expenses.   

   BET     Binomial Expansion Technique    A model that generates expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derives a credit rating for
those tranches.   

   Book Value Per Common Share Excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (loss) (AOCI)    is a non-GAAP measure and is used to show the amount of our
net worth on a per-share basis. Book Value Per Common Share Excluding AOCI is derived by dividing Total AIG shareholders' equity, excluding AOCI, by Total common shares outstanding.   

Casualty insurance    Insurance that is primarily associated with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and the
legal liability imposed on the insured as a result.   

   Catastrophe losses    are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG Property Casualty in excess of $10 million each.   

   Combined ratio    Sum of the loss ratio and the acquisition and general operating expense ratios.   

   CSA     Credit Support Annex    A legal document that provides for collateral postings at various ratings and threshold levels.   

CVA     Credit Valuation Adjustment    The CVA adjusts the valuation of derivatives to account for nonperformance risk of our
counterparty with respect to all net derivative assets positions. Also, the CVA reflects the fair value movement in the DIB's asset portfolio that is attributable to credit movements only without the
impact of other market factors such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Finally, the CVA also accounts for our own credit risk, in the fair value measurement of all net derivative
liabilities positions and liabilities where AIG has elected the fair value option, when appropriate.   

   DAC     Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs    Deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of
new business or renewal of existing business.   

   DAC Related to Unrealized Appreciation (Depreciation) of Investments    An adjustment to DAC for investment-oriented products, equal to the change in DAC
amortization that would have been recorded if fixed
maturity and equity securities available for sale had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields (also referred to as "shadow DAC"). The change in
this adjustment, net of tax, is included with the change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments that is credited or charged directly to Other comprehensive income (loss).   

   Deferred Gain on Retroactive Reinsurance    Retroactive reinsurance is a reinsurance contract in which an assuming entity agrees to reimburse a ceding
entity for liabilities incurred as a result of past insurable events. If the amount of premium paid by the ceding reinsurer is less than the related ceded loss reserves, the resulting gain is deferred
and amortized over the settlement period of the reserves. Any related development on the ceded loss reserves recoverable under the contract would increase the deferred gain if unfavorable, or decrease
the deferred gain if favorable.   

   Expense ratio    Sum of acquisition expenses and general operating expenses, divided by net premiums earned.   

   First-Lien    Priority over all other liens or claims on a property in the event of default on a mortgage.   

General operating expense ratio    general operating expenses divided by net premiums earned. General operating expenses are those costs that are generally
attributed to the support infrastructure of the organization and include but are not limited to personnel costs, projects and bad debt expenses. General operating expenses exclude claims adjustment
expenses, acquisition expenses, and investment expenses.   

   GIC/GIA     Guaranteed Investment Contract/Guaranteed Investment Agreement    A contract whereby the seller provides a guaranteed
repayment of principal and a fixed or floating interest rate for a predetermined period of time.   

   G-SII     Global Systemically Important Insurer    An insurer that is deemed globally systemically important (that is, of such size,
market importance and global interconnectedness that the distress or failure of the insurer would cause significant dislocation in the global financial system and adverse economic consequences across
a range of countries) by the Financial Stability Board, in consultation with and based on a methodology developed by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
204  

Table of Contents     

GLOSSARY    

High loss deductible policies    A type of commercial insurance policy where we pay the full claim and then seek reimbursement from the insured for the
deductible. Losses are retained by the insured up to a specified deductible amount (usually $25,000 or more per claim, subject to individual state approval) and we insure the claims in excess of the
deductible. Generally, the total claims (including the deductible portion) are managed and paid by us as part of a loss control program, and we are reimbursed the deductible amount by the insured. In
the case of unpaid claims, we make estimates of the deductible portion of claims reported to us, and reduce our loss reserves accordingly. In
most cases, we obtain collateral in the form of cash, letters of credit or other funding arrangements to secure the amounts of uncollected deductibles.   

   IBNR     Incurred But Not Reported    Estimates of claims that have been incurred but not reported to us.   

   LAE     Loss Adjustment Expenses    The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses
allocated to claim settlement costs.   

   Loss Ratio    Claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. Claims adjustment expenses are directly attributed to settling
and paying claims of insureds and include, but are not limited to, legal fees, adjuster's fees, and claims department personnel costs.   

   Loss Recognition Related to Unrealized Appreciation (Depreciation) of Investments    An adjustment to DAC and future policy benefits for long-duration
traditional products, equal to the adjustments that would be required if fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds
reinvested at current yields, and such reinvestment would not be sufficient to recover DAC and meet policyholder obligations (also referred to as "shadow loss recognition"). The change in this
adjustment, net of tax, is included with the change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments that is credited or charged directly to Other comprehensive income (loss).   

Loss reserve development    The increase or decrease in incurred claims and claims adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and
claims adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims.   

   Loss reserves    Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. The estimated ultimate cost of settling claims relating to insured events that
have occurred on or before the balance sheet date, whether or not reported to the insurer at that date.   

   LTV     Loan-to-Value Ratio    Principal amount of loan amount divided by appraised value of collateral securing the loan.   

Master netting agreement    An agreement between two counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net
settlement of all contracts, as well as cash collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or upon termination of any one contract.   

   Net premiums written    Represent the sales of an insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net premiums earned
are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are a measure of performance for a sales period while Net premiums earned are a measure of performance for a
coverage period. From the period in which the premiums are written until the period in which they are earned, the amount is presented as Unearned premium reserves in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

   Noncontrolling interest    The portion of equity ownership in a consolidated subsidiary not attributable to the controlling parent company.   

   Other Operations   Pre-tax operating income (loss):    pre-tax income (loss) excluding certain legal reserves (settlements)
related to legacy crisis matters, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, Net realized capital (gains) losses, net loss (gain) on sale of divested businesses and properties, change in benefit reserves
and DAC, VOBA, and SIA related to net realized capital (gains) losses and income from divested businesses, including Aircraft Leasing.   

Policy fees    An amount added to a policy premium, or deducted from a policy cash value or contract holder account, to reflect the cost of issuing a
policy, establishing the required records, sending premium notices and other related expenses.   

   Pool    A reinsurance arrangement whereby all of the underwriting results of the pool members are combined and then shared by each member in accordance
with its pool participation percentage. Our members in the admitted lines pool are licensed to write standard lines of business by the individual state departments of insurance, and the policy forms
and rates are regulated by those departments. Our members in the surplus lines pool provide policyholders with   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
205  

Table of Contents     

GLOSSARY    

insurance
coverage for risks which are generally not available in the standard insurance market. Surplus lines policy forms and rates are not regulated by the insurance departments.   

   Prior year development    Increase or decrease in estimates of losses and loss expenses for prior years that is included in earnings.   

   RBC     Risk-Based Capital    A formula designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus compared to the risks
inherent in its business.   

   Reinstatement premium    Additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses
under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties.   

   Reinsurance    The practice whereby one insurer, the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer,
the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.   

   Rescission    Denial of claims and termination of coverage on loans related to fraudulent or undocumented claims, underwriting guideline violations
and other deviations from contractual terms.   

   Retained Interest    Category within AIG's Other Operations that includes the fair value gains or losses, prior to their sale, of the AIA ordinary shares
retained following the AIA Group Limited initial public offering and the MetLife, Inc. securities that were received as consideration from the sale of American Life Insurance Company and the
fair value gains or losses, prior to the FRBNY liquidation of Maiden Lane III LLC assets in 2012, on the retained interest in Maiden Lane III LLC.   

   Retroactive Reinsurance    See Deferred Gain on Retroactive Reinsurance.   

   Salvage    The amount that can be recovered by us for the sale of damaged goods for which our policyholder has been indemnified (and to which title was
transferred to us).   

   Second-lien    Subordinate in ranking to the first-lien holder claims on a property in the event of default on a mortgage.   

Severe losses    Individual non-catastrophe first party losses and surety losses greater than $10 million, net of related reinsurance. Severe losses
include claims related to satellite explosions, plane crashes, and shipwrecks.   

   SIA     Sales Inducement Asset    Represents amounts that are credited to policyholder account balances related to the enhanced
crediting rates that a seller offers on certain of its annuity products.   

   SIFI     Systemically Important Financial Institutions    Financial institutions are deemed systemically important (that is, the
failure of the financial institution could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States) by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) based on a three-stage analytical process.   

   SLHC     Savings and Loan Holding Company    A company (other than a bank holding company) that controls a savings association or that
controls another company that is a savings and loan holding company. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System.   

   Solvency II    Legislation in the European Union which reforms the insurance industry's solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency
requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards. The Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC), was adopted on November 25, 2009 and is expected to become
effective in January 2016.   

   SSDMF     Social Security Death Master File    A database of deceased individuals, most of whom were issued a social security number
during their lifetimes, maintained by the U.S. Social Security Administration.   

   Subrogation    The amount of recovery for claims we have paid our policyholders, generally from a negligent third party or such party's insurer.   

Surrender charge    A charge levied against an investor for the early withdrawal of funds from a life insurance or annuity contract, or for the
cancellation of the agreement.   

   Unearned premium reserve    Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect unearned premiums which are usually refundable to policyholders
if an insurance or reinsurance contract is canceled prior to expiration of the contract term.   

   VOBA     Value of Business Acquired    Present value of projected future gross profits from in-force policies from acquired businesses.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
206  

Table of Contents    

ACRONYMS    

Acronyms   

A H     Accident and Health Insurance          ABS     Asset-Backed Security          CDO     Collateralized Debt Obligation          CDS     Credit Default Swap          CLO     Collateralized Loan Obligations      
   CMA     Capital Maintenance Agreement          CMBS     Commercial
Mortgage-Backed Securities          FASB     Financial Accounting Standards Board          FRBNY     Federal Reserve Bank of New York          GAAP     Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America          GMAV     Guaranteed Minimum Account Value Benefits          GMDB     Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits          GMIB     Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits  
     
           GMWB     Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefits          IFRS     International Financial Reporting Standards      
   ISDA     International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.          NAIC     National Association of Insurance Commissioners          NM     Not Meaningful          OTC     Over-the-Counter          OTTI     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment          RMBS     Residential Mortgage-Backed
Securities          S P     Standard   Poor's Financial Services LLC          SEC     Securities and Exchange Commission          TARP     Troubled Asset Relief Program of the Department of the Treasury          VIE     Variable Interest Entity  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
207  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7A / QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

ITEM 7A /     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by this item is set forth in the Enterprise Risk Management section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
208  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND SCHEDULES    

ITEM 8 /  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES     

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
209  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of American International Group, Inc.:     

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of American International Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (AIG) at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedules listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also
in our opinion, AIG maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in the     1992 Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
AIG's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A in the 2013 Form 10-K.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedules, and on AIG's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits
of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

  A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

  Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  New
York, New York 
February 20, 2014   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
210  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
211  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.     

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
212  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
213  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY   

(a)  See
Notes 17 and 24 to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  (b)  Excludes
gains of $2 million, $222 million and $552 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests and net
income attributable to noncontrolling nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) of $0, $0 and $74 million in 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively.   

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
214  

Table of Contents    

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.     

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

*      2011
includes payment of the FRBNY credit facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion, before the facility was terminated on January 14, 2011 in connection with
the Recapitalization.   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
215  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION    

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

American
International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading international insurance organization serving customers in more than 130 countries. AIG companies serve
commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of life
insurance and retirement services in the United States. AIG Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: AIG) and the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "AIG," "we," "us" or "our" mean American International Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and the term "AIG Parent" means
American International Group, Inc. and not any of its consolidated subsidiaries.   

  The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AIG Parent, our controlled subsidiaries (generally through a greater than 50 percent ownership of voting rights of a voting
interest entity), and variable interest entities (VIEs) of which we are the primary beneficiary. Equity investments in entities that we do not consolidate, including corporate entities in which we
have significant influence and partnership and partnership-like entities in which we have more than minor influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the equity method
unless we have elected the fair value option.   

  Certain
of our foreign subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements report on different annual fiscal year bases, in most cases ending November 30. The effect on our
consolidated financial condition and results of operations of all material events occurring at these subsidiaries between such fiscal year end and December 31 for all periods presented in these
consolidated financial statements has been recorded.   

  The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). All material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated.   

  Segment
changes are discussed in Note 3 herein.   

AIG Life and Retirement

Advisory
fee income, and the related commissions and advisory fee expenses of AIG Life and Retirement's broker dealer business, are now being presented on a gross basis
within Other income and Other expenses, respectively. Previously, these amounts were included on a net basis within Policy fees in AIG's Consolidated Statements of Income and in AIG Life and
Retirement's segment results.   

  In
addition, policyholder benefits related to certain payout annuities, primarily with life contingent features, are now being presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Future policy benefits
for life and accident and health insurance contracts instead of as Policyholder contract deposits.   

  Prior
period amounts were conformed to the current period presentation. These changes did not affect Income from continuing operations before income tax expense, Net income attributable to AIG or
Total liabilities.   

Sale of ILFC

On
December 16, 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement with AerCap Holdings N.V. (AerCap) and AerCap Ireland Limited (Purchaser), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of AerCap for the sale of 100 percent of the common stock of International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC). Based on the terms of this agreement, notably AIG's interest of
46 percent of the common shares of AerCap upon consummation of the sale of ILFC to AerCap, we determined ILFC no longer met the criteria at December 31, 2013 to be presented as a
discontinued operation. ILFC's results are reflected in Aircraft leasing revenue and Aircraft leasing expenses and the loss associated with the 2012 classification of ILFC as held for sale is included
in Net loss on sale of properties and divested businesses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The assets and liabilities of ILFC are classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2013 and
2012 in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 4 herein for further discussion.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
216  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION    

Use of Estimates

The
preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment.
Accounting policies that we believe are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions are considered our critical accounting estimates and are related to the determination
of:  

classification of ILFC as held for sale and related fair value measurement;    
           income tax assets and liabilities, including recoverability of our net deferred tax asset and the predictability of future
tax operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;   
           liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense;   
           reinsurance assets;   
           valuation of future policy benefit liabilities and timing and extent of loss recognition;    
           valuation of liabilities for guaranteed benefit features of variable annuity products;    
           estimated gross profits to value deferred acquisition costs for investment-oriented products;    
           impairment charges, including other-than-temporary impairments on available for sale securities, impairments on
investments in life settlements and goodwill impairment;   
           liability for legal contingencies; and   
           fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities.    

These
accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions
used, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.   

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The
following table identifies our significant accounting policies presented in other Notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, with a reference to the Note where a
detailed description can be found:   

Note 4.  
     
      Held-for-Sale Classification, Divested Businesses and Discontinued Operations  

Held-for-sale classification  

Discontinued operations  

Note 6.  
     
      Investments  

Fixed maturity and equity securities  

Other invested assets  

Short-term investments  

Net investment income  

Net realized capital gains (losses)  

Other-than-temporary impairments  

Note 7.  
     
      Lending Activities  

Mortgage and other loans receivable   net of allowance  

Note 8.  
     
      Reinsurance  

Reinsurance assets   net of allowance  

Note 9.  
     
      Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs  

Deferred policy acquisition costs  

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs  

Note 11.  
     
      Derivatives and Hedge Accounting  

Derivative assets and liabilities, at fair value  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
217  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

Note 12.  
     
      Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense, and Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts,
and Policyholder Contract Deposits  

Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense  

Future policy benefits  

Policyholder contract deposits  

Interest credited to policyholder account balances  

Note 14.  
     
      Debt  

Long-term debt  

Note 15.  
     
      Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees  

Legal contingencies  

Note 17.  
     
      Noncontrolling Interests  

Note 18.  
     
      Earnings Per Share  

Note 23.  
     
      Income Taxes  

Other significant accounting policies

Premiums    for short-duration contracts are recorded as written on the inception date of the policy. Premiums are earned
primarily on a pro rata basis over the term of the related coverage. Sales of extended services contracts are reflected as premiums written and earned on a pro rata basis over the term of the related
coverage. The reserve for unearned premiums includes the portion of premiums written relating to the unexpired terms of coverage. Reinsurance premiums under a reinsurance contract are typically earned
over the same period as the underlying policies, or risks, covered by the contracts. As a result, the earnings pattern of a reinsurance contract may extend up to 24 months, reflecting the
inception dates of the underlying policies throughout the year.   

  Reinsurance
premiums ceded are recognized as a reduction in revenues over the period the reinsurance coverage is provided in proportion to the risks to which the premiums relate.   

Premiums
for long duration insurance products and life contingent annuities are recognized as revenues when due. Estimates for premiums due but not yet collected are accrued.   

   Policy fees    represent fees recognized from universal life and investment-type products consisting of policy charges for the cost of insurance, policy
administration charges, surrender charges and amortization of unearned revenue reserves.   

   Aircraft leasing revenue    from flight equipment under operating leases is recognized over the life of the leases as rental payments become receivable
under the provisions of the leases or, in the case of leases with varying payments, under the straight-line method over the noncancelable term of the leases. In certain cases, leases provide for
additional payments contingent on usage. In those cases, rental revenue is recognized at the time such usage
occurs, net of estimated future contractual aircraft maintenance reimbursements. Gains on sales of flight equipment are recognized when flight equipment is sold and the risk of ownership of the
equipment is passed to the new owner.   

   Other income    includes unrealized gains and losses on derivatives, including unrealized market valuation gains and losses associated with the Global
Capital Markets (GCM) super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio, advisory fee income from AIG Life and Retirement's broker dealer business, income from the Direct Investment book (DIB), as well
as legal settlements of $1.2 billion and $200 million from legacy crisis and other matters in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  Other
income from our Other Operations category consists of the following:  

Change in fair value relating to financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected.    
           Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes
in the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.   
           Dividend income from common and preferred stock and distributions from other investments.    
           Changes in the fair value of other securities sold but not yet purchased, futures, hybrid financial instruments,
securities purchased under agreements to resell, and securities sold under agreements to repurchase.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
218  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

Income earned on real estate based investments and related realized gains and losses from sales, property level
impairments and financing costs.   
           Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions.   
           Reductions to the cost basis of securities available for sale for other-than-temporary impairments.    
           Earnings from private equity funds and hedge fund investments accounted for under the equity method.    
           Gains and losses recognized in earnings on derivatives for the effective portion and their related hedged items.    

Aircraft leasing expenses    consist of ILFC interest expense, depreciation expense, impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related charges
on aircraft as well as selling, general and administrative expenses and other expenses incurred by ILFC.   

   Cash    represents cash on hand and non-interest bearing demand deposits.   

   Premiums and other receivables   net    includes premium balances receivable, amounts due from agents and brokers and
policyholders, trade receivables for the DIB and GCM and other receivables. Trade receivables for GCM include cash collateral posted to derivative counterparties that is not eligible to be netted
against derivative liabilities. The allowance for doubtful accounts on premiums and other receivables was $554 million and $619 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.   

   Other assets    consists of sales inducement assets, prepaid expenses, deposits, other deferred charges, real estate, other fixed assets, capitalized
software costs, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, and restricted cash.   

  We
offer sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales inducements
provided to the contract holder are recognized in Policyholder contract deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such amounts are deferred and amortized over the life of the contract using the
same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC (see Note 9 herein). To qualify for such accounting treatment, the bonus interest must be explicitly identified in the contract at
inception. We must also demonstrate that such amounts are incremental to amounts we credit on similar contracts without bonus interest, and are higher than the contract's expected ongoing crediting
rates for periods after the bonus period. The deferred bonus interest and other deferred sales inducement assets totaled $703 million and $517 million at December 31, 2013 and
2012, respectively. The amortization expense associated with these assets is reported within Interest credited to policyholder account balances in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Such
amortization expense totaled $102 million, $162 million and $239 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

The
cost of buildings and furniture and equipment is depreciated principally on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (maximum of 40 years for buildings and 10 years
for furniture and equipment). Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to income as incurred and expenditures for improvements are capitalized and depreciated. We periodically assess the
carrying value of our real estate for purposes of determining any asset impairment. Capitalized software costs, which represent costs directly related to obtaining, developing or upgrading internal
use software, are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over a period generally not exceeding five years. Real estate, fixed assets and other long-lived assets are assessed for
impairment when impairment indicators exist.   

   Goodwill    represents the future economic benefits arising from assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and
separately recognized. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. All of our goodwill was associated with and allocated
to the AIG Property Casualty's Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments.   

  The
impairment assessment involves an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether events or circumstances exist that lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the qualitative assessment is not performed, or after assessing the totality of the events or circumstances, we determine it is
more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which a quantitative assessment for potential
impairment is performed.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
219  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

  If the qualitative test is not performed or if the test indicates a potential impairment is present, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit and
compare the estimated fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting unit's fair value involves management judgment and is based
on one or a combination of approaches including discounted expected future cash flows, market-based earnings multiples of the unit's peer companies, external appraisals or, in the case of reporting
units being considered for sale, third-party indications of fair value, if available. We consider one or more of these estimates when determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the
impairment test.   

  If
the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill associated
with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of the goodwill. The
implied fair value of the goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts that would be assigned to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities in a
hypothetical business combination. An impairment charge is recognized in earnings to the extent of the excess. AIG Property Casualty manages its assets on an aggregate basis and does not allocate its
assets, other than goodwill, between its operating segments. Therefore, the carrying value of the reporting units was determined by allocating the carrying value of AIG Property Casualty to those
units based on an internal capital allocation model.   

  At
December 31, 2013, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. Based on the results of the goodwill impairment test, we concluded that the remaining goodwill was not impaired.   

   The following table presents the changes in goodwill by reportable segment:   

Separate accounts    represent funds for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to
the policyholders who bear the investment risk. Each account has specific investment objectives and the assets are carried at fair value. The assets of each account are legally segregated and are not
subject to claims that arise from any of our other businesses. The liabilities for these accounts are equal to the account assets. For a more detailed discussion of separate accounts, see
Note 13 herein.   

   Other policyholder funds    are reported at cost and include any policyholder funds on deposit that encompass premium deposits and similar items, including
liabilities for dividends arising out of participating business, reserves for experience-rated group products and unearned revenue reserves (URR). URR consist of front end loads on interest-sensitive
contracts, representing those policy loads that are non-level and typically higher in initial policy years than in later policy years. URR for interest-sensitive life insurance policies are generally
deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits (EGPs) for investment-oriented products to be realized   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
220  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

over
the estimated lives of the contracts and are subject to the same adjustments due to changes in the assumptions underlying EGPs as DAC.   

   Other liabilities    consist of other funds on deposit, other payables, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities sold but not yet
purchased. We have entered into certain insurance and reinsurance contracts, primarily in our AIG Property Casualty segment, that do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be accounted for as
insurance or reinsurance. Accordingly, the premiums received on such contracts, after deduction for certain related expenses, are recorded as deposits within Other liabilities in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. Net proceeds of these deposits are invested and generate Net investment income. As amounts are paid, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit liability is reduced. Also
included in Other liabilities are trade payables for the DIB and GCM, which include option premiums received and payables to counterparties that relate to unrealized gains and losses on futures,
forwards, and options and balances due to clearing brokers and exchanges. Trade payables for GCM also include cash collateral received from derivative counterparties that contractually cannot be
netted against derivative assets.   

  Securities
sold but not yet purchased represent sales of securities not owned at the time of sale. The obligations arising from such transactions are recorded on a trade-date basis and carried at fair
value. Fair values of securities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices.   

    Foreign currency:       Financial statement accounts expressed in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars. Functional currency assets and
liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars generally using rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date of each respective subsidiary and the related translation adjustments are recorded
as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any related taxes, in Total AIG shareholders' equity. Functional currencies are generally the currencies of the local
operating environment. Financial statement accounts expressed in currencies other than the functional currency of a consolidated entity are translated into that entity's functional currency. Income
statement accounts expressed in functional currencies are translated using average exchange rates during the period. The adjustments resulting from translation of financial statements of foreign
entities operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in income. Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are recorded in income.   

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2013

Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment

In
July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard that allows a company, as a first step in an impairment review, to assess
qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. We are not required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and
perform a quantitative impairment test unless we determine, based on the results of the qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not the asset is impaired.   

  The
standard became effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. We adopted the standard on its required effective date of
January 1, 2013. The adoption of this standard had no material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Inclusion of the Federal Funds Effective Swap Rate as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes

In
July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard that permits the Federal Funds Effective Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap Rate) to be used as a U.S. benchmark
interest rate for hedge accounting purposes in addition to U.S. Treasury rates and LIBOR. The standard also removes the prohibition on the use of differing benchmark rates when entering into similar
hedging relationships.   

  The
standard became effective on a prospective basis for qualifying new or redesignated hedging relationships entered into on or after July 17, 2013 to the extent the Federal Funds Effective
Swap Rate is used as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes. We adopted the standard on its effective date of July 17, 2013. The adoption of this standard had no material
effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
221  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

Future Application of Accounting Standards

Certain Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability Arrangements

In
February 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires us to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total
amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date as the sum of (i) the amount we agreed to pay on the basis of our arrangement among our co-obligors and (ii) any additional amount
we expect to pay on behalf of our co-obligors.   

  The
standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013, but earlier adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the standard should be applied
retrospectively to all prior periods presented. We plan to adopt the standard on its required effective date of January 1, 2014 and do not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material
effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Parent's Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of an Investment within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity

In
March 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard addressing whether consolidation guidance or foreign currency guidance applies to the release of the cumulative
translation adjustment into net income when a parent sells all or a part of its investment in a foreign entity or no longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or net assets that
are a business (other than a sale of in-substance real estate) within a foreign entity. The guidance also resolves the diversity in practice for the cumulative translation adjustment treatment in
business combinations achieved in stages involving foreign entities.   

  Under
this standard, the entire amount of the cumulative translation adjustment associated with the foreign entity should be released into earnings when there has been: (i) a sale of a
subsidiary or group of net assets within a foreign entity and the sale represents a complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or the net assets had
resided; (ii) a loss of a controlling financial interest in an investment in a foreign entity; or (iii) a change in accounting method from applying the equity method to an investment in
a foreign entity to consolidating the foreign entity.   

  The
standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013, and will be applied prospectively. We plan to adopt the standard on its required effective date
of January 1, 2014 and do not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Investment Company Guidance

In
June 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the criteria a company must meet to qualify as an investment company, clarifies the measurement guidance,
and requires new disclosures for investment companies. An entity that is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the 1940 Act) qualifies as an
investment company. Entities that are not regulated under the 1940 Act must have certain fundamental characteristics and must consider other characteristics to determine whether they qualify as
investment companies. An entity's purpose and design must be considered when making the assessment.   

  The
standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013. Earlier adoption is prohibited. An entity that no longer meets the requirements to be an
investment company as a result of this standard should present the change in its status as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. An entity
that is an investment company should apply the guidance prospectively as an adjustment to opening net assets as of the effective date. The adjustment to net assets represents both the difference
between the fair value and the carrying amount of the entity's investments and any amount previously recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income. We plan to adopt the standard on its required
effective date of January 1, 2014 and do not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
222  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

Presentation of Unrecognized Tax Benefits

In
July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires a liability related to unrecognized tax benefits to be presented as a reduction to the related deferred
tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward or a tax credit carryforward. When the carryforwards are not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction or the tax
law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit will be presented in the financial
statements as a liability and will not be combined with the related deferred tax asset.   

  The
standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013, but earlier adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the standard should be applied prospectively
to unrecognized tax benefits that existed at the effective date. Retrospective application is permitted. We plan to adopt the standard prospectively on its required effective date of January 1,
2014 and do not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

3. SEGMENT INFORMATION

We
report the results of our operations consistent with the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the business to assess performance and to allocate
resources through two reportable segments: AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement. We evaluate performance based on revenues and pre-tax income (loss), excluding results from discontinued
operations, because we believe this provides more meaningful information on how our operations are performing. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2012, we also presented Aircraft Leasing as a reportable
segment, which included the results of ILFC. As a result of the proposed sale of ILFC discussed in Note 4, Aircraft Leasing is no longer presented as a reportable segment in all periods
presented.   

  In
the fourth quarter of 2013, to reduce investment concentration, we transferred the holdings of investments in life settlements from AIG Property Casualty operations to AIG's Other Operations. AIG
Property Casualty has retained debt instruments associated with the investments in life settlements, repayment of which is expected to result from cash flows from the investments in life settlements.
To align our segment reporting with this change, the results of the investments in life settlements, including investment income and impairment losses, were reclassified to AIG's Other Operations for
all periods presented.   

AIG Property Casualty

The
AIG Property Casualty segment is presented as two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance, in addition to an AIG Property
Casualty Other category.   

  Our
property and casualty operations are conducted through multiple-line companies writing substantially all commercial and consumer lines both domestically and abroad. AIG Property Casualty offers
its products through a diverse, multi-channel distribution network that includes agents, wholesalers, global and local brokers, and direct-to-consumer platforms.   

  Investment
income is allocated to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments based on an internal investment income allocation model. The model estimates investable funds based
primarily on loss reserves and allocated capital. Commencing in the first quarter of 2013, AIG Property Casualty began applying similar duration and risk-free yields (plus a liquidity premium) to the
allocated capital of Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance as is applied to reserves.   

AIG Life and Retirement

In
2012, AIG Life and Retirement announced several key organizational structure and management changes intended to better serve the organization's distribution partners and
customers. Key aspects of the new structure include distinct product manufacturing divisions, shared annuity and life operations platforms and a unified all-channel distribution organization with
access to all AIG Life and Retirement products.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
223  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 3. SEGMENT INFORMATION    

  AIG Life and Retirement fully implemented these changes during the first quarter of 2013 and now presents its operating results in the following two operating
segments:   

Retail      product lines include Life Insurance and Accident and Health (A H), Fixed Annuities, Retirement Income Solutions (including
variable and index annuities), Brokerage Services and Retail Mutual Funds.   

   Institutional      product lines include Group Retirement, Group Benefits and Institutional Markets. The Institutional Markets product
line consists of stable value wrap products, structured settlement and terminal funding
annuities, high net worth products, guaranteed investment contracts (GICs), and corporate- and bank-owned life insurance.   

Prior
period amounts have been revised to reflect the new structure, which did not affect previously reported pre-tax income from continuing operations for AIG Life and Retirement. Prior to the first
quarter of 2013, AIG Life and Retirement was presented as two operating segments: Life Insurance and Retirement Services.   

AIG Other Operations

Our
Other Operations include results from:  

Mortgage Guaranty;   
           Global Capital Markets;   
           Direct Investment book;   
           Retained Interests, which represents the fair value gains or losses, prior to their sale in 2012, of the AIA Group Limited
(AIA) ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial public offering, the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities that were received as consideration from the sale of American Life Insurance
Company (ALICO), and the fair value gains or losses, prior to the FRBNY liquidation of Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) assets, on the retained interest in ML III;    
           Corporate   Other; and   
           Aircraft Leasing.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
224  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 3. SEGMENT INFORMATION    

   The following table presents AIG's continuing operations by reportable segment:   

*     Included
in Total revenues presented above.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
225  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 3. SEGMENT INFORMATION    

   The following table presents AIG's year-end identifiable assets and capital expenditures by reportable segment:   

(a)  AIG
Property Casualty manages its assets on an aggregate basis and does not allocate its assets, other than goodwill, between its operating segments.   

  (b)  2013
and 2012 include Aircraft Leasing assets classified as assets held-for-sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

The following table presents AIG's consolidated operations and long-lived assets by major geographic area:   

*     Revenues
are generally reported according to the geographic location of the reporting unit.   

4. HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION, DIVESTED BUSINESSES AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Held-For-Sale Classification

We
report a business as held for sale when management has approved or received approval to sell the business and is committed to a formal plan, the business is available for
immediate sale, the business is being actively marketed, the sale is anticipated to occur during the next 12 months and certain other specified criteria are met. A business classified as held
for sale is recorded at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value, a loss is recognized.
Depreciation and amortization expense is not recorded on assets of a business after it is classified as held for sale. Assets and liabilities related to a business classified as held for sale are
segregated in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in the period in which the business is classified as held for sale.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
226  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 4. HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION, DIVESTED BUSINESSES AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS    

The following table summarizes the components of ILFC assets and liabilities held-for-sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012:   

International Lease Finance Corporation

On
December 9, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement (the Share Purchase Agreement) with Jumbo Acquisition Limited (Jumbo) for the sale of 80.1 percent
of the common stock of ILFC for approximately $4.2 billion in cash. We determined ILFC met the criteria for held for sale and discontinued operations accounting at December 31, 2012 and,
consequently, we recorded a $6.7 billion pre-tax loss and a $4.4 billion after tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2012. ILFC's operating results do not include depreciation
and amortization expense because depreciation and amortization expense is not recorded on the assets of a business after the business is classified as held for sale. As of December 15, 2013,
the sale of ILFC to Jumbo had not closed and on December 16, 2013, we terminated the amended Share Purchase Agreement with Jumbo.   

  On
December 16, 2013 we entered into a definitive agreement with AerCap and AerCap Ireland Limited (AerCap Ireland), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AerCap, for the sale of 100 percent of
the common stock of ILFC (the AerCap Agreement) for consideration consisting of $3.0 billion of cash, a portion of which will be funded by a special dividend of $600 million to be paid
by ILFC to AIG upon consummation of the transaction, and approximately 97.6 million newly-issued AerCap common shares. The consideration has a value of approximately $5.4 billion based
on AerCap's pre-announcement closing price per share of $24.93 on December 13, 2013. In connection with the AerCap Agreement, we entered into a credit agreement for a senior unsecured revolving
credit facility between AerCap Ireland as borrower and AIG as lender (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Revolving Credit Facility provides for an aggregate commitment of $1 billion and
permits loans for general corporate purposes after the closing of the AerCap Transaction. The transaction is subject to required regulatory approvals, including all applicable U.S. and foreign
regulatory reviews and approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions. The AerCap Transaction was approved by AerCap shareholders on February 13, 2014. We determined ILFC met the
criteria for held-for-sale accounting at December 31, 2013. Because we expect to hold approximately 46 percent of the common stock of combined company upon closing of the transaction,
ILFC no longer qualifies for discontinued operations presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Consequently, ILFC's results are presented in continuing operations for all periods
presented.   

  ILFC
recognized a $1.1 billion impairment charge related to flight equipment held for use in its separate-company financial statements in the third quarter of 2013. ILFC concluded the net book
values of certain four-engine widebody aircraft in its fleet were no longer supportable based on the latest cash flow estimates because the estimated holding period was not likely to be as long as
previously anticipated. Sustained high fuel prices, the introduction of more   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
227  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 4. HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION, DIVESTED BUSINESSES AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS    

  fuel-efficient
aircraft, and the success of competing aircraft models resulted in a contracting operator base for these aircraft types. These factors, together with the latest updates to airline fleet
plans and efforts to remarket these aircraft resulted in the impairment charge. Approximately $1.0 billion of the $1.1 billion impairment charge related to the four-engine widebody
aircraft and, in particular, the Airbus A340-600s. This had no effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows as a result of the loss on sale of ILFC we
recognized for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

Discontinued Operations

We
report the results of operations of a business as discontinued operations if the business is classified as held for sale, the operations and cash flows of the business
have been or will be eliminated from our ongoing operations as a result of a disposal transaction and we will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the business after
the disposal transaction. The results of discontinued operations are reported in Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for current and prior periods commencing in the period
in which the business meets the criteria of a discontinued operation, and include any gain or loss recognized on closing or adjustment of the carrying amount to fair value less cost to sell.   

  The
results of operations for the following businesses are presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income.   

Nan Shan Sale

On
January 12, 2011, we entered into an agreement to sell our 97.57 percent interest in Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) to a
Taiwan-based consortium. The transaction was consummated on August 18, 2011 for net proceeds of $2.15 billion in cash. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $1.0 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2011 largely offsetting Nan Shan operating results for the period, which is reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The net proceeds from the transaction were used to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's preferred interests (AIA SPV Preferred Interests) in the special
purpose vehicle holding the proceeds of the AIA initial public offering (the AIA SPV).   

AIG Star and AIG Edison Sale

On
September 30, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with Prudential Financial, Inc. for the sale of our Japan-based insurance subsidiaries, AIG Star
Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison), for total consideration of $4.8 billion, including the assumption of certain outstanding
debt totaling $0.6 billion owed by AIG Star and AIG Edison. The transaction closed on February 1, 2011 and we recognized a pre-tax gain of $3.5 billion on the sale that is
reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

  Nan
Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison previously were components of the AIG Life and Retirement reportable segment. Results from discontinued operations for 2011 include the results of Nan Shan, AIG Star
and AIG Edison through the date of disposition.   

  Certain
other sales completed during the periods presented were not classified as discontinued operations because we continued to generate significant direct revenue-producing or cost-generating cash
flows from the businesses or because associated assets, liabilities and results of operations were not material, individually or in the aggregate, to our consolidated financial position or results of
operations for any period presented.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
228  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 4. HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION, DIVESTED BUSINESSES AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS    

   The following table presents the components of income from discontinued operations:   

5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis

We
carry certain of our financial instruments at fair value. We define the fair value of a financial instrument as the amount that would be received from the sale of an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We are responsible for the determination of the value of the investments carried at
fair value and the supporting methodologies and assumptions.   

  The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally inversely correlates with the level of observable valuation inputs. We maximize the use of observable inputs
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in
measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments for which no quoted prices are available have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing
techniques that require more judgment. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and
not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction, liquidity and general market conditions.   

Fair Value Hierarchy

Assets
and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are measured and classified in accordance with a fair value hierarchy consisting of three
"levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair values as discussed below:   

Level 1:     Fair
value measurements that are based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that we have the ability to access for identical assets or liabilities. Market price data generally is obtained from
exchange or dealer markets. We do not adjust the quoted price for such instruments.     
            Level 2:     Fair
value measurements based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include
quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices
that are observable for the asset or liability, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
229  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Level 3:     Fair
value measurements based on valuation techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable. Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions
classified in Level 3. The circumstances for using these measurements include those in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. Therefore, we must make certain
assumptions about the inputs a hypothetical market participant would use to value that asset or liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the
fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is
significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.    

  The
following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments carried at fair value. These methodologies are applied to assets and liabilities across the levels discussed above,
and it is the observability of the inputs used that determines the appropriate level in the fair value hierarchy for the respective asset or liability.   

Valuation Methodologies of Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value

Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements

Our Own Credit
Risk.     Fair value measurements for certain liabilities incorporate our own credit risk by determining the explicit cost for each
counterparty to protect against its net credit exposure to us at the balance sheet date by reference to observable AIG CDS or cash bond spreads. A derivative counterparty's net credit exposure to us
is determined based on master netting agreements, when applicable, which take into consideration all derivative positions with us, as well as collateral we post with the counterparty at the balance
sheet date. We calculate the effect of these credit spread changes using discounted cash flow techniques that incorporate current market interest rates.     
            Counterparty Credit
Risk.     Fair value measurements for freestanding derivatives incorporate counterparty credit by determining the explicit cost for us to
protect against our net credit exposure to each counterparty at the balance sheet date by reference to observable counterparty CDS spreads, when available. When not available, other directly or
indirectly observable credit spreads will be used to derive the best estimates of the counterparty spreads. Our net credit exposure to a counterparty is determined based on master netting agreements,
which take into consideration all derivative positions with the counterparty, as well as collateral posted by the counterparty at the balance sheet date.    

  Fair
values for fixed maturity securities based on observable market prices for identical or similar instruments implicitly incorporate counterparty credit risk. Fair values for fixed maturity
securities based on internal models incorporate counterparty credit risk by using discount rates that take into consideration cash issuance spreads for similar instruments or other observable
information.   

  The
cost of credit protection is determined under a discounted present value approach considering the market levels for single name CDS spreads for each specific counterparty, the mid market value of
the net exposure (reflecting the amount of protection required) and the weighted average life of the net exposure. CDS spreads are provided to us
by an independent third party. We utilize an interest rate based on the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) curve to derive our discount rates.   

  While
this approach does not explicitly consider all potential future behavior of the derivative transactions or potential future changes in valuation inputs, we believe this approach provides a
reasonable estimate of the fair value of the assets and liabilities, including consideration of the impact of non-performance risk.   

Fixed Maturity Securities

Whenever
available, we obtain quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure fixed maturity securities at fair value. Market price
data is generally obtained from dealer markets.   

  We
employ independent third-party valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret market information to derive fair value estimates for individual investments, based upon market-accepted
methodologies and assumptions. The methodologies used by these independent third-party valuation services are reviewed and understood by management, through periodic discussion with and information
provided by the valuation services. In addition, as   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
230  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

discussed
further below, control processes are applied to the fair values received from third-party valuation services to ensure the accuracy of these values.   

  Valuation
service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of market-accepted valuation methodologies,
which may utilize matrix pricing, financial models, accompanying model inputs and various assumptions, provide a single fair value measurement for individual securities. The inputs used by the
valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices
from completed transactions for identical securities and transactions for comparable securities, benchmark yields, interest rate yield curves, credit spreads, currency rates, quoted prices for similar
securities and other market-observable information, as applicable. If fair value is determined using financial models, these models generally take into account, among other things, market observable
information as of the measurement date as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued, including its term, interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and when applicable,
collateral quality and other security or issuer-specific information. When market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the extent to which judgment is applied in determining fair
value is greatly increased.   

  We
have control processes designed to ensure that the fair values received from third party valuation services are accurately recorded, that their data inputs and valuation techniques are appropriate
and consistently applied and that the assumptions used appear reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value. We assess the reasonableness of individual security values
received from valuation service providers through various analytical techniques, and have procedures to escalate related questions internally and to the third party valuation services for resolution.
To assess the degree of pricing consensus among various valuation services for specific asset types, we have conducted comparisons of prices received from available sources. We have used these
comparisons to establish a hierarchy for the fair values received from third party valuation services to be used for particular security classes. We also validate prices for selected securities
through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investing transactions.   

When
our third-party valuation service providers are unable to obtain sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate the fair value for a particular security, fair value is determined
either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a price quote, which is generally non-binding, or by employing market accepted valuation models. Broker prices may
be based on an income approach, which converts expected future cash flows to a single present value amount, with specific consideration of inputs relevant to particular security types. For structured
securities, such inputs may include ratings, collateral types, geographic concentrations, underlying loan vintages, loan delinquencies and defaults, prepayments, and weighted average coupons and
maturities. When the volume or level of market activity for a security is limited, certain inputs used to determine fair value may not be observable in the market. Broker prices may also be based on a
market approach that considers recent transactions involving identical or similar securities. Fair values provided by brokers are subject to similar control processes to those noted above for fair
values from third party valuation services, including management reviews. For those corporate debt instruments (for example, private placements) that are not traded in active markets or that are
subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on available market evidence. When observable price
quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on discounted cash flow models using discount rates based on credit spreads, yields or price levels of comparable securities, adjusted for
illiquidity and structure. Fair values determined internally are also subject to management review to ensure that valuation models and related inputs are reasonable.   

The
methodology above is relevant for all fixed maturity securities including residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS), commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS), collateralized debt
obligations (CDO), other asset-backed securities (ABS) and fixed maturity securities issued by government sponsored entities and corporate entities.   

Equity Securities Traded in Active Markets

Whenever
available, we obtain quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure equity securities at fair value. Market price data is
generally obtained from exchange or dealer markets.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
231  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable

We
estimate the fair value of mortgage and other loans receivable that are measured at fair value by using dealer quotations, discounted cash flow analyses and/or internal
valuation models. The determination of fair value considers inputs such as interest rate, maturity, the borrower's creditworthiness, collateral, subordination, guarantees, past-due status, yield
curves, credit curves, prepayment rates, market pricing for comparable loans and other relevant factors.   

Other Invested Assets

We
initially estimate the fair value of investments in certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships by reference to the transaction price.
Subsequently, we generally obtain the fair value of these investments from net asset value information provided by the general partner or manager of the investments, the financial statements of which
are generally audited annually. We consider observable market data and perform certain control procedures to validate the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement. The
fair values of other investments carried at fair value, such as direct private equity holdings, are initially determined based on transaction price and are subsequently estimated based on available
evidence such as market transactions in similar instruments, other financing transactions of the issuer and other available financial information for the issuer, with adjustments made to reflect
illiquidity as appropriate.   

Short-term Investments

For
short-term investments that are measured at fair value, the carrying values of these assets approximate fair values because of the relatively short period of time
between origination and expected realization, and their limited exposure to credit risk. Securities purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements) are generally treated as
collateralized receivables. We report certain receivables arising from securities purchased under agreements to resell as Short-term investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We use
market-observable interest rates for receivables measured at fair value. This methodology considers such factors as the coupon rate and yield curves.   

Separate Account Assets

Separate
account assets are composed primarily of registered and unregistered open-end mutual funds that generally trade daily and are measured at fair value in the manner
discussed above for equity securities traded in active markets.   

Freestanding Derivatives

Derivative
assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or traded over-the-counter (OTC). We generally value exchange-traded derivatives such as futures and options using
quoted prices in active markets for identical derivatives at the balance sheet date.   

  OTC
derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or
dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends on the
contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in the instrument, as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. We generally use similar models to value similar instruments.
Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such
inputs. For OTC
derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means, and model
selection does not involve significant management judgment.   

  For
certain OTC derivatives that trade in less liquid markets, where we generally do not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market
transactions, the transaction price may provide the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument,   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
232  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

the
model is adjusted so the model value at inception equals the transaction price. We will update valuation inputs in these models only when corroborated by evidence such as similar market
transactions, third party pricing services and/or broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity,
bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management's best estimate is used.   

Embedded Policy Derivatives

Certain
variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts contain embedded policy derivatives that we bifurcate from the host contracts and account for
separately at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. We have concluded these contracts contain (i) written option guarantees on minimum accumulation value, (ii) a
series of written options that guarantee withdrawals from the highest anniversary value within a specific period or for life, or (iii) equity-indexed written options that meet the criteria of
derivatives that must be bifurcated.   

  The
fair value of embedded policy derivatives contained in certain variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts is measured based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related
to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. These cash flow estimates primarily include benefits and related fees assessed,
when applicable, and incorporate expectations about policyholder behavior. Estimates of future policyholder behavior are subjective and based primarily on our historical experience.   

With
respect to embedded policy derivatives in our variable annuity contracts, because of the dynamic and complex nature of the expected cash flows, risk neutral valuations are used. Estimating the
underlying cash flows for these products involves judgments regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market index returns to funds, fund performance, discount
rates and policyholder behavior. With respect to embedded policy derivatives in our equity-indexed annuity and life contracts, option pricing models are used to estimate fair value, taking into
account assumptions for future equity index growth rates, volatility of the equity index, future interest rates, and determinations on adjusting the participation rate and the cap on equity-indexed
credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions. These methodologies incorporate an explicit risk margin to take into consideration market participant estimates of
projected cash flows and policyholder behavior.   

  We
also incorporate our own risk of non-performance in the valuation of the embedded policy derivatives associated with variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts. Historically,
the expected cash flows were discounted using the interest rate swap curve (swap curve), which is commonly viewed as being consistent with the credit spreads for highly-rated financial institutions
(S P AA-rated or above). A swap curve shows the fixed-rate leg of a non-complex swap against the floating rate (for example, LIBOR) leg of a related tenor. The swap curve was adjusted, as necessary,
for anomalies between the swap curve and the U.S. Treasury yield curve.   

Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio

We
value CDS transactions written on the super senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or loans using internal valuation models, third-party price
estimates and market indices. The principal market was determined to be the market in which super senior credit default swaps of this type and size would be transacted, or have been transacted, with
the greatest volume or level of activity. We have determined that the principal market participants, therefore, would consist of other large financial institutions who participate in sophisticated
over-the-counter derivatives markets. The specific valuation methodologies vary based on the nature of the referenced obligations and availability of market prices.   

  The
valuation of the super senior credit derivatives is complex because of the limited availability of market observable information due to the lack of trading and price transparency in certain
structured finance markets. These market conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of
fair value for financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing
volatile markets have increased the likelihood that the various parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly different estimates as to their fair values.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
233  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

  Our
valuation methodologies for the super senior credit default swap portfolio have evolved over time in response to market conditions and the availability of market observable information. We have
sought to calibrate the methodologies to available market information and to review the assumptions of the methodologies on a regular basis.   

Multi-sector CDO portfolios:       We use a modified version of the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model to value our credit default swap portfolio
written on super senior tranches of multi-sector CDOs of ABS. The BET model was developed in 1996 by a major rating agency to generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a credit
rating for those tranches, and remains widely used.   

  We
have adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. We modified the BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for the underlying
securities and not from rating agency assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price estimates for the securities comprising the portfolio of a CDO as an input and converts those
estimates to credit spreads over current LIBOR-based interest rates. These credit spreads are used to determine implied probabilities of default and expected losses on the underlying securities. This
data is then aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of the super senior tranche of the CDO.   

  Prices
for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent available. CDO collateral managers provided market prices for
46 percent and 59 percent of the underlying securities used in the valuation at December 31, 2013 and 2012. When a price for an individual security is not provided by a CDO
collateral manager, we derive the price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used principally to value
debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the security to other benchmark quoted securities. Substantially
all of the CDO collateral managers who provided prices used dealer prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some cases supplemented by third-party pricing services.   

  The
BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. We employ a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying the effect on the valuation of the CDO
of the unique aspects of the CDO's structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital structure. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to determine whether an
underlying security defaults in a given simulation scenario and, if it does, the security's implied random default time and expected loss. This information is used to project cash flow streams and to
determine the expected losses of the portfolio.   

  In
addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps using our internal model, we also consider the price estimates for the
super senior CDO securities provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to validate the results of the model and to determine the best available estimate of fair value.
In determining the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps, we use a consistent process that considers all available pricing data points and eliminates the
use of outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a reasonable range an averaging technique is applied.   

    Corporate debt/Collateralized loan obligation (CLO) portfolios:       For credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment-grade corporate debt,
we use a mathematical model that produces results that are closely aligned with prices received from third parties. This methodology uses the current market credit spreads of the names in the
portfolios along with the base correlations implied by the current market prices of comparable tranches of the relevant market traded credit indices as inputs.   

We
estimate the fair value of our obligations resulting from credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par value less the current market value of the referenced obligation.
Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining third-party quotations on the underlying super senior tranches referenced under the credit default swap contract.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
234  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Policyholder Contract Deposits

Policyholder
contract deposits accounted for at fair value are measured using an earnings approach by taking into consideration the following
factors:  

Current policyholder account values and related surrender charges;   
           The present value of estimated future cash inflows (policy fees) and outflows (benefits and maintenance expenses)
associated with the product using risk neutral valuations, incorporating expectations about policyholder behavior, market returns and other factors;
and  
           A risk margin that market participants would require for a market return and the uncertainty inherent in the model inputs.    

The
change in fair value of these policyholder contract deposits is recorded as Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

Long-Term Debt

The
fair value of non-structured liabilities is generally determined by using market prices from exchange or dealer markets, when available, or discounting expected cash
flows using the appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. We determine the fair value of structured liabilities and hybrid financial instruments (where performance is linked to structured
interest rates, inflation or currency risks) using the appropriate derivative valuation methodology (described above) given the nature of the embedded risk profile. In addition, adjustments are made
to the valuations of both non-structured and structured liabilities to reflect our own creditworthiness based on the methodology described under the caption "Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value
Measurements   Our Own Credit Risk" above.   

  Borrowings
under obligations of guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs), which are guaranteed by us, are recorded at fair value using discounted cash flow calculations based on interest rates
currently being offered for similar contracts and our current market observable implicit credit spread rates with maturities consistent with those
remaining for the contracts being valued. Obligations may be called at various times prior to maturity at the option of the counterparty. Interest rates on these borrowings are primarily fixed, vary
by maturity and range up to 9.8 percent.   

Other Liabilities

Other
liabilities measured at fair value include certain securities sold under agreements to repurchase and certain securities sold but not yet purchased. Liabilities
arising from securities sold under agreements to repurchase are generally treated as collateralized borrowings. We estimate the fair value of liabilities arising under these agreements by using
market-observable interest rates. This methodology considers such factors as the coupon rate, yield curves and other relevant factors. Fair values for securities sold but not yet purchased are based
on current market prices.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
235  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The following table presents information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and indicates the level of the fair
value measurement based on the observability of the inputs used:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
236  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

(a)  Represents
netting of derivative exposures covered by qualifying master netting agreements.   

  (b)  Represents
cash collateral posted and received. Securities collateral posted for derivative transactions that is reflected in Fixed maturity securities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, and collateral received, not reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, was $1.3 billion and $120 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013 and $1.9 billion and
$299 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012.   

Transfers of Level 1 and Level 2 Assets and Liabilities

Our
policy is to record transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent
with the date of the determination of fair value. Assets are transferred out of Level 1 when they are no longer transacted with sufficient frequency and volume in an active market. Conversely,
assets are transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 when transaction volume and frequency are indicative of an active market. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we
transferred $944 million and $464 million,   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
237  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

  respectively,
of securities issued by Non-U.S. government entities from Level 1 to Level 2, because they are no longer considered actively traded. For similar reasons, during the years
ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we transferred $356 million and $888 million, respectively, of securities issued by the U.S. government and government-sponsored entities from
Level 1 to Level 2. We had no material transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.   

Changes in Level 3 Recurring Fair Value Measurements

The following tables present changes during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at
fair value on a recurring basis, and the realized and unrealized gains (losses) related to the Level 3 assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013 and
2012:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
238  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

*     Total
Level 3 derivative exposures have been netted in these tables for presentation purposes only.   

Net realized and unrealized gains and losses included in income related to Level 3 assets and liabilities shown above are
reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
239  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

   The following table presents the gross components of purchases, sales, issues and settlements, net, shown above:   

(a)  There
were no issuances during year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.   

  (b)  Includes
$7.1 billion of securities purchased through the FRBNY's auction of ML III assets.   

  (c)  Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
240  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified in Level 3 in the tables above. As a result, the
unrealized gains (losses) on instruments held at December 31, 2013 and 2012 may include changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable (e.g., changes in market interest
rates) and unobservable (e.g., changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities) inputs.   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities

We
record transfers of assets and liabilities into or out of Level 3 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent with the date of the
determination of fair value. As a result, the Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in income or other comprehensive income and as shown in the table above excludes $15 million
and $143 million of net losses related to assets and liabilities transferred into Level 3 during 2013 and 2012, respectively, and includes $44 million and $92 million of
net gains related to assets and liabilities transferred out of Level 3 during 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets     

  During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, transfers into Level 3 assets primarily included certain investments in private
placement corporate debt, RMBS, CMBS, CDO, ABS, and investments in hedge funds and private equity funds.   

The transfer of investments in RMBS, CMBS and CDO and certain ABS into Level 3 assets were due to decreases in
market transparency and liquidity for individual security types.   
           Transfers of private placement corporate debt and certain ABS into Level 3 assets were primarily the result of
limited market pricing information that required us to determine fair value for these securities based on inputs that are adjusted to better reflect our own assumptions regarding the characteristics
of a specific security or associated market liquidity.   
           Certain investments in hedge funds were transferred into Level 3 as a result of limited market activity due to
fund-imposed redemption restrictions.   
           Certain private equity fund investments were transferred into Level 3 due to these investments being carried at
fair value and no longer being accounted for using the equity method of accounting.    

  Assets
are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that significant inputs can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market
activity for the asset, a specific event, one or more significant input(s) becoming observable or a long-term interest rate significant to a valuation becoming short-term and thus observable. In
addition, transfers out of Level 3 assets also occur when investments are no longer carried at fair value as the result of a change in the applicable accounting methodology, given changes in
the nature and extent of our ownership interest.   

  During
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, transfers out of Level 3 assets primarily related to certain investments in municipal securities, private placement corporate debt,
RMBS, CMBS, CDO/ABS, and investments in hedge funds and private equity funds.   

Transfers of certain investments in municipal securities, RMBS, CMBS, CDO and certain ABS out of Level 3 assets
were based on consideration of market liquidity as well as related transparency of pricing and associated observable inputs for these investments.   
           Transfers of private placement corporate debt and certain ABS out of Level 3 assets were primarily the result of
using observable pricing information that reflects the fair value of those securities without the need for adjustment based on our own assumptions regarding the characteristics of a specific security
or the current liquidity in the market.   
           The removal or easing of fund-imposed redemption restrictions, as well as certain fund investments becoming subject to the
equity method of accounting resulted in the transfer of certain hedge fund and private equity fund investments out of Level 3 assets.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
241  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Transfers of Level 3 Liabilities     

  There were no significant transfers of derivative or other liabilities into or out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

  Because
we present carrying values of our derivative positions on a net basis in the table above, transfers into Level 3 liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily
related to certain derivative assets transferred out of Level 3 because of the presence of observable inputs on certain forward commitments and options. During the year ended
December 31, 2012, certain notes payable were transferred out of Level 3 liabilities because input parameters for the pricing of these liabilities became more observable as a result of
market movements and portfolio aging. There were no significant transfers of derivative liabilities out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

  We
use various hedging techniques to manage risks associated with certain positions, including those classified within Level 3. Such techniques may include the purchase or sale of financial
instruments that are classified within Level 1 and/or Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains (losses) for assets and liabilities classified within Level 3
presented in the table above do not reflect the related realized or unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that are classified within Level 1 and/or Level 2.   

Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements

The table below presents information about the significant unobservable inputs used for recurring fair value measurements for certain Level 3
instruments, and includes only those instruments for which information about the inputs is reasonably available to us, such as data from third-party valuation service providers and from internal
valuation models. Because input information from third-parties with respect to certain Level 3 instruments (primarily CDO/ABS) may not be reasonably available to us, balances shown below may
not equal total amounts reported for such Level 3 assets and liabilities:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
242  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

(a)  The
unobservable inputs and ranges for the constant prepayment rate, loss severity and constant default rate relate to each of the individual underlying mortgage loans that comprise
the entire portfolio of securities in the RMBS and CDO securitization vehicles and not necessarily to the securitization vehicle bonds (tranches) purchased by us. The ranges of these inputs do not
directly correlate to changes in the fair values of the tranches purchased by us because there are other factors relevant to the fair values of specific tranches owned by us including, but not limited
to, purchase price, position in the waterfall, senior versus subordinated position and attachment points.   

  (b)  Represents
discount rates, estimates and assumptions that we believe would be used by market participants when valuing these assets and liabilities.   

  (c)  Information
received from third-party valuation service providers.   

  (d)  Yield
was the only input available for $6.6 billion of total fair value at December 31, 2012.   

The ranges of reported inputs for Corporate debt, RMBS, CDO/ABS, and CMBS valued using a discounted cash flow technique consist of plus/minus one standard
deviation in either direction from the value-weighted average. The preceding table does not give effect to our risk management practices that might offset risks inherent in these investments.   

Sensitivity to Changes in Unobservable Inputs

We
consider unobservable inputs to be those for which market data is not available and that are developed using the best information available to us about the assumptions
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. Relevant inputs vary depending on the nature of the instrument being measured at fair value. The following is a general
description of sensitivities of significant unobservable inputs along with interrelationships between and among the significant unobservable inputs and their impact on the fair value measurements. The
effect of a change in a particular assumption in the sensitivity analysis below is considered independently of changes in any other assumptions. In practice, simultaneous changes in assumptions may
not always have a linear effect on the inputs discussed below. Interrelationships may also exist between observable and unobservable inputs. Such relationships have not been included in the discussion
below. For each of the individual relationships described below, the inverse relationship would also generally apply.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
243  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Corporate Debt

Corporate
debt securities included in Level 3 are primarily private placement issuances that are not traded in active markets or that are subject to transfer
restrictions. Fair value measurements consider illiquidity and non-transferability. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on discounted cash flow models
using discount rates based on credit spreads, yields or price levels of publicly-traded debt of the issuer or other comparable securities, considering illiquidity and structure. The significant
unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of corporate debt is the yield. The yield is affected by the market movements in credit spreads and U.S. Treasury yields. In addition, the
migration in credit quality of a given security generally has a corresponding effect on the fair value measurement of the security. For example, a downward migration of credit quality would increase
spreads. Holding U.S. Treasury rates constant, an increase in corporate credit spreads would decrease the fair value of corporate debt.   

RMBS and Certain CDO/ABS

The
significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurements of RMBS and certain CDO/ABS valued by third-party valuation service providers are constant prepayment
rates (CPR), loss severity, constant default rates (CDR), and yield. A change in the assumptions used for the probability of default will generally be accompanied by a corresponding change in the
assumption used for the loss severity and an inverse change in the assumption used for prepayment rates. In general, increases in CPR, loss severity, CDR, and yield, in isolation, would result in a
decrease in the fair value measurement. Changes in fair value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the directional change of each input
is not usually linear.   

CMBS

The
significant unobservable input used in fair value measurements for CMBS is the yield. Prepayment assumptions for each mortgage pool are factored into the yield. CMBS
generally feature a lower degree of prepayment risk than RMBS because commercial mortgages generally contain a penalty for prepayment. In general, increases in the yield would decrease the fair value
of CMBS.   

CDO/ABS   Direct Investment book

The
significant unobservable inputs used for certain CDO/ABS securities valued using the BET are recovery rates, diversity score, and the weighted average life of the
portfolio. An increase in recovery rates and diversity score will increase the fair value of the portfolio. An increase in the weighted average life will decrease the fair value.   

Policyholder contract deposits

Embedded
derivatives within Policyholder contract deposits relate to guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) within variable annuity products and certain enhancements
to interest crediting rates based on market indices within equity-indexed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts (GICs). GMWB represents our largest exposure of these embedded derivatives,
although the carrying value of the liability fluctuates based on the performance of the equity markets and therefore, at a point in time, can be low relative to the exposure. The principal
unobservable input used for GMWBs and embedded derivatives in equity-indexed annuities measured at fair value is equity implied volatility. For GMWBs, other significant unobservable inputs include
base and dynamic lapse rates, mortality rates, and utilization rates. Lapse, mortality, and utilization rates may vary significantly
depending upon age groups and duration. In general, increases in volatility and utilization rates will increase the fair value of the liability associated with GMWB, while increases in lapse rates and
mortality rates will decrease the fair value of the liability. Significant unobservable inputs used in valuing embedded derivatives within GICs include long-term forward interest rates and foreign
exchange rates. Generally, the embedded derivative liability for GICs will increase as interest rates decrease or if the U.S. dollar weakens compared to the euro.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
244  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

Derivative liabilities   credit contracts

The
significant unobservable inputs used for Derivatives liabilities   credit contracts are recovery rates, diversity scores, and the weighted average
life of the portfolio. AIG non-performance risk is also considered in the measurement of the liability.   

  An
increase in recovery rates and diversity score will decrease the fair value of the liability. An increase in the weighted average life will increase the fair value measurement of the liability.   

Investments in Certain Entities Carried at Fair Value Using Net Asset Value per Share

The following table includes information related to our investments in certain other invested assets, including private equity funds, hedge funds and
other alternative investments that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent). For these investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we use the net asset value per
share as a practical expedient to measure fair value.   

December 31, 2013   

December 31, 2012  

(in millions)    

Investment Category Includes   

Fair Value 
Using Net 
Asset Value 
Per Share (or 
its equivalent)   

Unfunded 
Commitments   

Fair Value 
Using Net 
Asset Value 
Per Share (or 
its equivalent)   

Unfunded 
Commitments   

Investment Category   

Private equity funds:   

Leveraged buyout  
     
  Debt and/or equity investments made as part of a transaction in which assets of mature companies are acquired from the current shareholders, typically with the use of financial leverage  

$  

2,544     

$  

578     

$  
  2,529  
     
  $  
  669  

Real Estate / Infrastructure  
     
  Investments in real estate properties and infrastructure positions, including power plants and other energy generating facilities  

346     

86     

251  

52  

Venture capital  
     
  Early-stage, high-potential, growth companies expected to generate a return through an eventual realization event, such as an initial public offering or sale of the company  

140     

13     

157  

16  

Distressed  
     
  Securities of companies that are in default, under bankruptcy protection, or troubled  

183     

34     

184  

36  

Other  
     
  Includes multi-strategy and mezzanine strategies  

134     

238     

112  

100  

Total private equity funds  

3,347     

949     

3,233  

873  

Hedge funds:   

Event-driven  
     
  Securities of companies undergoing material structural changes, including mergers, acquisitions and other reorganizations  

976     

2     

788  

2  

Long-short  
     
  Securities that the manager believes are undervalued, with corresponding short positions to hedge market risk  

1,759     

11     

1,318  

Macro  
     
  Investments that take long and short positions in financial instruments based on a top-down view of certain economic and capital market conditions  

612     

320  

Distressed  
     
  Securities of companies that are in default, under bankruptcy protection or troubled  

594     

15     

316  

Emerging markets  
     
  Investments in the financial markets of developing countries  

287     

Other  
     
  Includes multi-strategy and relative value strategies  

157     

66  

Total hedge funds  

4,385     

28     

2,808  

2  

Total  

$  

7,732     

$  

977     

$  
  6,041  
     
  $  
  875  

Private equity fund investments included above are not redeemable, as distributions from the funds will be received when underlying investments of the funds are
liquidated. Private equity funds are generally expected to have 10-year lives at their inception, but these lives may be extended at the fund manager's discretion, typically in one or two-year   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
245  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

increments.
At December 31, 2013, assuming average original expected lives of 10 years for the funds, 62 percent of the total fair value using net asset value per share (or its
equivalent) presented above would have expected
remaining lives of three years or less, 34 percent between four and six years and 4 percent between seven and 10 years.   

  The
hedge fund investments included above are generally redeemable monthly (14 percent), quarterly (44 percent), semi-annually (22 percent) and annually (20 percent), with
redemption notices ranging from one day to 180 days. At December 31, 2013, however, investments representing approximately 57 percent of the total fair value of the hedge fund
investments cannot be redeemed, either in whole or in part, because the investments include various contractual restrictions. The majority of these contractual restrictions, which may have been put in
place at the fund's inception or thereafter, have pre-defined end dates and are generally expected to be lifted by the end of 2015. The fund investments for which redemption is restricted only in part
generally relate to certain hedge funds that hold at least one investment that the fund manager deems to be illiquid.   

Fair Value Option

Under
the fair value option, we may elect to measure at fair value financial assets and financial liabilities that are not otherwise required to be carried at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value for designated items are reported in earnings. We elect the fair value option for certain hybrid securities given the complexity of bifurcating the economic components
associated with the embedded derivatives. Refer to Note 11 for additional information related to embedded derivatives.   

  Additionally,
beginning in the third quarter of 2012 we elected the fair value option for investments in certain private equity funds, hedge funds and other alternative investments when such
investments are eligible for this election. We believe this measurement basis is consistent with the applicable accounting guidance used by the respective investment company funds themselves. Refer to
Note 6 herein for additional information.   

   The following table presents the gains or losses recorded related to the eligible instruments for which we elected the fair value option:   

(a)  Includes
certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships.   

  (b)  Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds and mortgage payable.   

Interest income and dividend income on assets measured under the fair value option are recognized and included in Net investment income in the Consolidated
Statements of Income with the exception of activity within AIG's Other Operations, which is included in Other income. Interest on liabilities measured under the fair value option is recognized in
interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 6 herein for additional information about our policies for recognition, measurement, and disclosure of interest and dividend
income and interest expense.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
246  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

  During
2013, 2012 and 2011, we recognized losses of $54 million, losses of $641 million and gains of $420 million, respectively, attributable to the observable effect of changes
in credit spreads on our own liabilities for which the fair value option was elected. We calculate the effect of these credit spread changes using discounted cash flow techniques that incorporate
current market interest rates, our observable credit spreads on these liabilities and other factors that mitigate the risk of nonperformance such as cash collateral posted.   

The following table presents the difference between fair values and the aggregate contractual principal amounts of mortgage and other loans receivable and long-term borrowings
for which the fair value option was elected:   

*     Includes
GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   

There were no mortgage or other loans receivable for which the fair value option was elected that were 90 days or more past due or in non-accrual status
at December 31, 2013 and 2012.   

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS ON A NON-RECURRING BASIS

We
measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally quarterly, annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the assets may not be recoverable. These assets include cost and equity-method investments, investments in life settlements, collateral securing foreclosed loans and real estate and other
fixed assets, goodwill and other intangible assets. See Note 6 herein for additional information about how we test various asset classes for impairment.   

   The following table presents assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at the time of impairment and the related impairment charges recorded during the periods
presented:   

FAIR VALUE INFORMATION ABOUT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS NOT MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE

Information
regarding the estimation of fair value for financial instruments not carried at fair value (excluding insurance contracts and lease contracts) is discussed
below:   

Mortgage and other loans
receivable:     Fair values of loans on real estate and other loans receivable were estimated for disclosure purposes using discounted cash
flow calculations based on discount rates that we believe market participants would use in determining the price that they would pay for such assets. For certain loans, our current incremental lending
rates for similar types of loans are used as the discount rates, because we believe this    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
247  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

rate
approximates the rates market participants would use. The fair values of policy loans are generally estimated based on unpaid principal amount as of each reporting date or, in some cases, based
on the present value of the loans using a discounted cash flow model. No consideration is given to credit risk because policy loans are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the
policies.    

Other invested
assets:     The majority of Other invested assets that are not measured at fair value represent investments in life settlements. The fair
value of investments in life settlements is determined using a discounted cash flow methodology that incorporates best available market assumptions for longevity as well as market yields based on
reported transactions. Due to the individual life nature of each investment in life settlements and the illiquidity of the existing market, significant inputs to the fair value are unobservable.    
            Cash and short-term
investments:     The carrying values of these assets approximate fair values because of the relatively short period of time between
origination and expected realization, and their limited exposure to credit risk.     
            Policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type
contracts:     Fair values for policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type contracts not accounted for at fair value were
estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based on interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those of the contracts being valued. When no
similar contracts are being offered, the discount rate is the appropriate swap rate (if available) or current risk-free interest rate consistent with the currency in which the cash flows are
denominated.     
            Other
liabilities:     The majority of Other liabilities that are financial instruments not measured at fair value represent secured financing
arrangements, including repurchase agreements. The carrying values of these liabilities approximate fair value, because the financing arrangements are short-term and are secured by cash or other
liquid collateral.     
            Long-term
debt:     Fair values of these obligations were determined by reference to quoted market prices, when available and appropriate, or
discounted cash flow calculations based upon our current market-observable implicit-credit-spread rates for similar types of borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt
being valued.    

The following table presents the carrying values and estimated fair values of our financial instruments not measured at fair value and indicates the level in the fair value
hierarchy of the estimated fair value measurement based on the observability of the inputs used:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
248  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

6. INVESTMENTS

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities

Bonds
held to maturity are carried at amortized cost when we have the ability and positive intent to hold these securities until maturity. When we do not have the ability or
positive intent to hold bonds until maturity, these securities are classified as available for sale or are measured at fair value at our election. None of our fixed maturity securities met the
criteria for held to maturity classification at December 31, 2013 or 2012.   

  Fixed
maturity and equity securities classified as available for sale are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses from available for sale investments in fixed maturity and equity securities
are reported as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred income taxes, in shareholders' equity. Realized and unrealized
gains and losses from fixed maturity and equity
securities measured at fair value at our election are reflected in Net investment income (for insurance subsidiaries) or Other income (for Other Operations). Investments in fixed maturity and equity
securities are recorded on a trade-date basis.   

  Premiums
and discounts arising from the purchase of bonds classified as available for sale are treated as yield adjustments over their estimated holding periods, until maturity, or call date, if
applicable. For investments in certain RMBS, CMBS and CDO/ABS, (collectively, structured securities), recognized yields are updated based on current information regarding the timing and amount of
expected undiscounted future cash flows. For high credit quality structured securities, effective yields are recalculated based on actual payments received and updated prepayment expectations, and the
amortized cost is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since acquisition with a corresponding charge or credit to net investment income. For
structured securities that are not high credit quality, effective yields are recalculated and adjusted prospectively based on changes in expected undiscounted future cash flows. For purchased credit
impaired (PCI) securities, at acquisition, the difference between the undiscounted expected future cash flows and the recorded investment in the securities represents the initial accretable yield,
which is to be accreted into net investment income over the securities' remaining lives on a level-yield basis. Subsequently, effective yields recognized on PCI securities are recalculated and
adjusted prospectively to reflect changes in the contractual benchmark interest rates on variable rate securities and any significant increases in undiscounted expected future cash flows arising due
to reasons other than interest rate changes.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
249  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

Securities Available for Sale

The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of our available for sale securities:   

(a)  Represents
the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Amount includes unrealized gains and losses on impaired
securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date.   

(b)  At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, bonds available for sale held by us that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $32.6 billion and $29.6 billion,
respectively.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
250  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

Securities Available for Sale in a Loss Position

The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses on our available for sale securities, aggregated by major investment
category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:   

At December 31, 2013, we held 7,652 and 126 individual fixed maturity and equity securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position, of
which 848 individual fixed maturity securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for longer than 12 months. We did not recognize the unrealized losses in earnings on these fixed
maturity securities at December 31, 2013, because we neither intend to sell the securities nor do we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities
before recovery of their amortized cost basis. For fixed maturity securities with significant declines, we performed fundamental credit analysis on a security-by-security basis, which included
consideration of credit enhancements, expected defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry analyst reports and forecasts and other available market data.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
251  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

Contractual Maturities of Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale

The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale by contractual
maturity:   

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations with or without call or
prepayment penalties.   

   The following table presents the gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales or maturities of our available for sale securities:   

For the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the aggregate fair value of available for sale securities sold was $35.9 billion,
$40.3 billion and $44.0 billion, which resulted in net realized capital gains of $2.5 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
252  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

Other Securities Measured at Fair Value

The following table presents the fair value of other securities measured at fair value based on our election of the fair
value option:   

*     Includes
$1.0 billion and $0.9 billion of U.S. Government agency backed ABS at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Other Invested Assets

The following table summarizes the carrying values of other invested assets:   

(a)  Includes
hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships, investments in life settlements and other investment partnerships.   

  (b)  Net
of accumulated depreciation of $513 million and $469 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

(c)  Consist
primarily of AIG Life and Retirement investments in aircraft equipment held in consolidated trusts.   

Other Invested Assets Carried at Fair Value

Certain
hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships for which we have elected the fair value option are reported at
fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Net investment income with the exception of investments of AIG's Other Operations, for which such changes are reported in Other income. Other
investments in hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships in which our insurance operations do not hold aggregate interests sufficient to
exercise more than minor influence over the respective partnerships are reported at fair value with changes in fair value recognized as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. These
investments are subject to other-than-temporary impairment evaluations (see discussion below on evaluating equity investments for other-than-temporary impairment). The gross unrealized loss recorded
in Other comprehensive income on such   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
253  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

investments
was $15 million and $68 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, the majority of which pertains to investments in private equity funds and hedge funds that
have been in continuous unrealized loss positions for less than 12 months.   

Other Invested Assets   Equity Method Investments

We
account for hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment partnerships using the equity method of accounting unless our interest
is so minor that we may have virtually no influence over partnership operating and financial policies, or we have elected the fair value option. Under the equity method of accounting, our carrying
value generally is our share of the net asset value of the funds or the partnerships, and changes in our share of the net asset values are recorded in Net investment income with the exception of
investments of AIG's Other Operations, for which such changes are reported in Other income. In applying the equity method of accounting, we consistently use the most recently available financial
information provided by the general partner or manager of each of these investments, which is one to three months prior to the end of our reporting period. The financial statements of these investees
are generally audited annually.   

  Direct
private equity investments entered into for strategic purposes and not solely for capital appreciation or for income generation are also accounted for under the equity method. Dividends
received from our other strategic investments were $80 million, $8 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. The
undistributed earnings of other strategic investments in which our ownership interest is less than 50 percent were $17 million, $51 million and $9 million at
December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.   

  On
October 29, 2010, we completed an IPO of 8.08 billion ordinary shares of AIA for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $20.5 billion. Upon completion of the IPO, we owned
33 percent of AIA's outstanding shares. Accordingly, we deconsolidated AIA and recorded a pre-tax gain of $16.3 billion in 2010. On March 7, 2012, we sold approximately
1.72 billion ordinary shares of AIA for gross proceeds of approximately $6.0 billion. On September 11, 2012, we sold approximately 600 million ordinary shares of AIA for
gross proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion. On December 20, 2012, we sold approximately 1.65 billion ordinary shares of AIA for gross proceeds of approximately
$6.5 billion. As a result of these sales, we retained no interest in AIA as of December 31, 2012. We accounted for our investment in AIA under the fair value option with gains and losses
recorded in Net investment income. We recorded
fair value option gains from our investment in AIA of $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.   

Summarized Financial Information of AIA

The following is summarized financial information of AIA:     

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
254  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

Summarized Financial Information of Other Equity Method Investees

The following is the aggregated summarized financial information of our equity method investees, including those for which the fair value option has been elected:     

The following table presents the carrying value and ownership percentage of equity method investments:     

Summarized financial information for these equity method investees may be presented on a lag, due to the unavailability of information for the investees at the
respective balance sheet date, and is included for the periods in which we held an equity method ownership interest.   

Other Investments

Also
included in Other invested assets are real estate held for investment and aircraft asset investments held by non-Aircraft Leasing subsidiaries. These investments are
reported at cost, less depreciation and subject to impairment review, as discussed below.   

Investments in Life Settlements

Investments
in life settlements are accounted for under the investment method. Under the investment method, we recognize our initial investment in life settlements at the
transaction price plus all initial direct external costs. Continuing costs to keep the policy in force, primarily life insurance premiums, increase the carrying value of the investment. We recognize
income on individual investments in life settlements when the insured
dies, at an amount equal to the excess of the investment proceeds over the carrying amount of the investment at that time. These investments are subject to impairment review, as discussed below.   

  During
2013, 2012 and 2011, income recognized on investments in life settlements was $334 million, $253 million and $320 million, respectively, and is included in Net investment
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
255  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

The following table presents further information regarding investments in life settlements:   

Remaining life expectancy for year 0-1 references policies whose current life expectancy is less than 12 months as of the valuation date.
Remaining life expectancy is not an indication of expected maturity. Actual maturity dates in any category may vary significantly (either earlier or later) from the remaining life expectancies
reported above.   

  At
December 31, 2013, management's best estimate of the life insurance premiums required to keep the investments in life settlements in force, payable in the 12 months ending
December 31, 2014 and the four succeeding years ending December 31, 2018 are $549 million, $575 million, $590 million, $613 million and $638 million,
respectively.   

Net Investment Income

Net
investment income represents income primarily from the following sources:  

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes
in the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.   
           Dividend income from common and preferred stock and distributions from other investments.    
           Realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments in other securities and investments for which we elected the
fair value option.   
           Earnings from private equity funds and hedge fund investments accounted for under the equity method.    
           The difference between the carrying amount of an investment in life settlements and the life insurance proceeds of the
underlying life insurance policy recorded in income upon the death of the insured.  
           Changes in the fair values of our interests in ML II, AIA and MetLife securities prior to sale and change in the
fair value of our interests in ML III prior to the FRBNY liquidation of ML III assets.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
256  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

   The following table presents the components of Net investment income:   

*     Includes
hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships, investments in life settlements and other investment partnerships.   

Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses

Net
realized capital gains and losses are determined by specific identification. The net realized capital gains and losses are generated primarily from the following
sources:  

Sales of available for sale fixed maturity securities, available for sale equity securities and real estate.    
           Reductions to the cost basis of available for sale fixed maturity securities, available for sale equity securities and
certain other invested assets for other-than-temporary impairments.   
           Impairments on investments in life settlements.   
           Changes in fair value of derivatives except for (1) those instruments at AIGFP that are not intermediated on behalf
of other AIG subsidiaries and (2) those instruments that are designated as hedging instruments when the change in the fair value of the hedged item is not reported in Net realized capital gains
(losses).   
           Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions.    

   The following table presents the components of Net realized capital gains (losses):   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
257  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

Change in Unrealized Appreciation (Depreciation) of Investments

The following table presents the increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of our available for sale securities and other
investments:   

*     Excludes
net unrealized gains attributable to businesses held for sale.   

Evaluating Investments for Other-Than-Temporary Impairments

Fixed Maturity Securities     

  If we intend to sell a fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair
value, with a corresponding charge to realized capital losses. When assessing our intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a
fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition our investment
portfolio, sales of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to take advantage of favorable pricing.   

  For
fixed maturity securities for which a credit impairment has occurred, the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding charge to realized capital losses. The
estimated recovery value is the present value of cash flows expected to be collected, as determined by management. The difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not related to a credit
impairment is recognized in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity securities on which other-than-temporary credit impairments were taken (a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income).   

  When
estimating future cash flows for structured fixed maturity securities (e.g., RMBS, CMBS, CDO, ABS) management considers historical performance of underlying assets and available market
information as well as
bond-specific structural considerations, such as credit enhancement and priority of payment structure of the security. In addition, the process of estimating future cash flows includes, but is not
limited to, the following critical inputs, which vary by asset class:  

Current delinquency rates;   
           Expected default rates and the timing of such defaults;   
           Loss severity and the timing of any recovery; and  
           Expected prepayment speeds.    

  For
corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities determined to be credit impaired, management considers the fair value as the recovery value when available information does not
indicate that another value is more relevant or reliable. When management identifies information that supports a recovery value other than the fair value, the determination of a recovery value
considers scenarios specific to the issuer and the security, and may be based upon estimates of outcomes of corporate restructurings, political and macroeconomic factors, stability and financial
strength of the issuer, the value of any secondary sources of repayment and the disposition of assets.   

  We
consider severe price declines in our assessment of potential credit impairments. We may also modify our model inputs when we determine that price movements in certain sectors are indicative of
factors not captured by the cash flow models.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
258  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

In
periods subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign exchange related, we prospectively accrete
into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding period of the security.   

Credit Impairments

The following table presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit losses in other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings for available
for sale fixed maturity securities:   

*     Represents
both accretion recognized due to changes in cash flows expected to be collected over the remaining expected term of the credit impaired securities and the accretion due to
the passage of time.   

Equity Securities     

  We evaluate our available for sale equity securities, equity method and cost method investments for impairment by considering such securities as
candidates for other-than-temporary impairment if they meet any of the following criteria:  

The security has traded at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to cost for an extended period of time (nine
consecutive months or longer);   
           A discrete credit event has occurred resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation;
(ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for court-supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer
proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than the par value of their claims;
or  
           We have concluded that we may not realize a full recovery on our investment, regardless of the occurrence of one of the
foregoing events.    

  The
determination that an equity security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near-term prospects
and all the relevant facts and circumstances. In addition to the above criteria, all equity securities that have been in a continuous decline in value below cost over twelve months are impaired. We
also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline (50 percent or more) discount to cost, in which we could not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be
temporary (severity losses).   

Other Invested Assets     

Our investments in private equity funds and hedge funds are evaluated for impairment similar to the evaluation of equity securities for impairments
as discussed above. Such evaluation considers market conditions, events and   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
259  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

  volatility
that may impact the recoverability of the underlying investments within these private equity funds and hedge funds and is based on the nature of the underlying investments and specific
inherent risks. Such risks may evolve based on the nature of the underlying investments.   

  Our
investments in life settlements are monitored for impairment on a contract-by-contract basis quarterly. An investment in life settlements is considered impaired if the undiscounted cash flows
resulting from the expected proceeds from the investment in life settlements would not be sufficient to recover our estimated future carrying amount of the investment in life settlements, which is the
current carrying amount for the investment in life settlements plus anticipated undiscounted future premiums and other capitalizable future costs, if any. Impaired investments in life settlements are
written down to their estimated fair value which is determined on a discounted cash flow basis, incorporating current market longevity assumptions and market yields.   

  In
general, fair value estimates for the investments in life settlements are calculated using cash flows based on medical underwriting ratings of the policies from a third-party underwriter, applied
to an industry mortality table. Our new mortality assumptions are based on an industry table that was supplemented with proprietary data on the older age mortality of U.S. insured lives. In addition,
mortality improvement factors were applied to our new assumptions based on our view of future mortality improvements likely to apply to the U.S. insured lives population. These mortality improvement
assumptions were based on our analysis of various public industry sources and proprietary research. Using these new mortality assumptions coupled with the adopted future mortality improvement rates,
we revised our estimate of future net cash flows from the investments in life settlements. This resulted in a significant increase in the number of investments in life settlements identified as
impaired as of December 31, 2013.   

  Our
investments in aircraft assets and real estate are periodically evaluated for recoverability whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may be impaired. When
impairment indicators are present, we compare expected investment cash flows to carrying value. When the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value, the investments are written down to fair
value with a corresponding charge to earnings.   

Purchased Credit Impaired (PCI) Securities

We
purchase certain RMBS securities that have experienced deterioration in credit quality since their issuance. We determine, based on our expectations as to the timing and
amount of cash flows expected to be received, whether it is probable at acquisition that we will not collect all contractually required payments for these PCI securities, including both principal and
interest after considering the effects of prepayments. At acquisition, the timing and amount of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be received on each PCI security is determined based on
our best estimate using key assumptions, such as interest rates, default rates and prepayment speeds. At acquisition, the difference between the undiscounted expected future cash flows of the PCI
securities and the recorded investment in the securities represents the initial accretable yield, which is accreted into Net investment income over their remaining lives on a level-yield basis.
Additionally, the difference between the contractually required payments on the PCI securities and the undiscounted expected future cash flows represents the non-accretable difference at acquisition.
The accretable yield and the non-accretable difference will change over time, based on actual payments received and changes in estimates of undiscounted expected future cash flows, which are discussed
further below.   

  On
a quarterly basis, the undiscounted expected future cash flows associated with PCI securities are re-evaluated based on updates to key assumptions. Declines in undiscounted expected future cash
flows due to further credit deterioration as well as changes in the expected timing of the cash flows can result in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge, as PCI securities are
subject to our policy for evaluating investments for other-than-temporary impairment. Changes to undiscounted expected future cash flows due solely to the changes in the contractual benchmark interest
rates on variable rate PCI securities will change the accretable yield prospectively. Significant increases in undiscounted expected future cash flows for reasons other than interest rate changes are
recognized prospectively as adjustments to the accretable yield.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
260  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

The following tables present information on our PCI securities, which are included in bonds available for sale:   

(in millions)    

At Date of Acquisition   

Contractually required payments (principal and interest)  
     
  $  
  25,374  

Cash flows expected to be collected *   

20,037  

Recorded investment in acquired securities  

13,077  

*     Represents
undiscounted expected cash flows, including both principal and interest.   

The following table presents activity for the accretable yield on PCI securities:     

Pledged Investments

Secured Financing and Similar Arrangements

We
enter into financing transactions whereby certain securities are transferred to financial institutions in exchange for cash or other liquid collateral. Securities transferred by us under these
financing transactions may be sold or repledged by the counterparties. As collateral for the securities transferred by us, counterparties transfer assets to us, such as cash or high quality fixed
maturity securities. Collateral levels are monitored daily and are generally maintained at an agreed-upon percentage of the fair value of the transferred securities during the life of the
transactions. Where we receive fixed maturity securities as collateral, we do not have the right to sell or repledge this collateral unless an event of default occurs by the counterparties. At the
termination of the transactions, we and our counterparties are obligated to return the collateral provided and the securities transferred, respectively. We treat these transactions as secured
financing arrangements.   

  Secured
financing transactions also include securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase agreements), in which we transfer securities in exchange for cash, with an agreement by us to
repurchase the same or substantially similar securities. In the majority of these repurchase agreements, the securities transferred by us may be sold or repledged by the counterparties. Repurchase
agreements entered into by the DIB are carried at fair value based on market-observable interest rates. All other repurchase agreements are recorded at their contracted repurchase amounts plus accrued
interest.   

   The following table presents the fair value of securities pledged to counterparties under secured financing transactions:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
261  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS    

  Prior to January 1, 2012, in the case of repurchase agreements where we did not obtain collateral sufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of
purchasing identical replacement securities during the term of the contract (generally less than 90 percent of the security value), we accounted for the transaction as a sale of the security
and reported the obligation to repurchase the security as a derivative contract. The fair value of securities transferred under repurchase agreements accounted for as sales was $2.1 billion at
December 31, 2011. Effective January 1, 2012, the level of collateral received by the transferor in a repurchase agreement or similar arrangement is no longer relevant in determining
whether the transaction should be accounted for as a sale. There were no repurchase agreements accounted for as sales as of December 31, 2013.   

  We
also enter into agreements in which securities are purchased by us under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements), which are accounted for as secured financing transactions and reported
as short-term investments or other assets, depending on their terms. These agreements are recorded at their contracted resale amounts plus accrued interest, other than those that are accounted for at
fair value. Such agreements entered into by the DIB are carried at fair value based on market observable interest rates. In all reverse repurchase transactions, we take possession of or obtain a
security interest in the related securities, and we have the right to sell or repledge this collateral received.   

   The following table presents information on the fair value of securities pledged to us under reverse repurchase agreements:   

Insurance   Statutory and Other Deposits

Total
carrying values of cash and securities deposited by our insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities or other insurance-related arrangements, including certain
annuity-related obligations and certain reinsurance agreements, were $6.7 billion and $8.9 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Other Pledges

Certain
of our subsidiaries are members of Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) and such membership requires the members to own stock in these FHLBs. We owned an aggregate of $57 million and
$84 million of stock in FHLBs at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. To the extent an AIG subsidiary borrows from the FHLB, its ownership interest in the stock
of FHLBs will be pledged to the FHLB. In addition, our subsidiaries have pledged securities available for sale with a fair value of $80 million and $341 million at December 31,
2013 and 2012, respectively, associated with advances from the FHLBs.   

  Certain
GIAs have provisions that require collateral to be posted or payments to be made by us upon a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings. The actual amount of collateral required to be posted to
the counterparties in the event of such downgrades, and the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depend on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected
transactions and other factors prevailing at and after the time of the downgrade. The fair value of securities pledged as collateral with respect to these obligations approximated $4.2 billion
and $4.4 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. This collateral primarily consists of securities of the U.S. government and government sponsored
entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
262  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 7. LENDING ACTIVITIES    

7. LENDING ACTIVITIES

Mortgage
and other loans receivable include commercial mortgages, life insurance policy loans, commercial loans, and other loans and notes receivable. Commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and other
loans and notes receivable are carried at unpaid principal balances less credit allowances and plus or minus adjustments for the accretion or amortization of discount or premium. Interest income on
such loans is accrued as earned.   

  Direct
costs of originating commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and other loans and notes receivable, net of nonrefundable points and fees, are deferred and included in the carrying amount of the
related receivables. The amount deferred is amortized to income as an adjustment to earnings using the interest method.   

  Life
insurance policy loans are carried at unpaid principal amount. There is no allowance for policy loans because these loans serve to reduce the death benefit paid when the death claim is made and
the balances are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the policy.   

   The following table presents the composition of Mortgages and other loans receivable:     

*     Commercial
mortgages primarily represent loans for office, retail and industrial properties, with exposures in California and New York representing the largest geographic concentrations
(18 percent and 17 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2013 and 22 percent and 15 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2012).   

The following table presents the credit quality indicators for commercial mortgage loans:     

(a)  Loans
that have been modified in troubled debt restructurings and are performing according to their restructured terms. See discussion of troubled debt restructurings below.   

  (b)  Does
not reflect allowance for losses.   

(c)  Approximately
99 percent of the commercial mortgages held at such respective dates were current as to payments of principal and interest.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
263  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 7. LENDING ACTIVITIES    

Methodology Used to Estimate the Allowance for Losses

Mortgage
and other loans receivable are considered impaired when collection of all amounts due under contractual terms is not probable. For commercial mortgage loans in
particular, the impairment is measured based on the fair value of underlying collateral, which is determined based on the present value of expected net future cash flows of the collateral, less
estimated costs to sell. For other loans, the impairment may be measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or based on the
loan's observable market price, where available. An allowance is typically established for the difference between the impaired value of the loan and its current carrying amount. Additional allowance
amounts are established for incurred but not specifically identified impairments, based on the analysis of internal risk ratings and current loan values. Internal risk ratings are assigned based on
the consideration of risk factors including past due status, debt service coverage, loan-to-value ratio or the ratio of the loan balance to the estimated value of the property, property occupancy,
profile of the borrower and of the major property tenants, economic trends in the market where the property is located, and condition of the property. These factors and the resulting risk ratings also
provide a basis for determining the level of monitoring performed at both the individual loan and the portfolio level. When all or a portion of a commercial mortgage loan is deemed uncollectible, the
uncollectible portion of the carrying value of the loan is charged off against the allowance. Interest income on impaired loans is recognized as cash is received.   

A
significant majority of commercial mortgage loans in the portfolio are non-recourse loans and, accordingly, the only guarantees are for specific items that are exceptions to the non-recourse
provisions. It is therefore extremely rare for us to have cause to enforce the provisions of a guarantee on a commercial real estate or mortgage loan.   

The following table presents a rollforward of the changes in the allowance for losses on Mortgage and other loans receivable:   

*     Of
the total allowance at the end of the year, $93 million and $47 million relates to individually assessed credit losses on $264 million and $286 million of
commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Troubled Debt Restructurings

We
modify loans to optimize their returns and improve their collectability, among other things. When we undertake such a modification with a borrower that is experiencing
financial difficulty and the modification involves us granting a concession to the troubled debtor, the modification is a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). We assess whether a borrower is
experiencing financial difficulty based on a variety of factors, including the borrower's current default on any of its outstanding debt, the probability of a default on any of its debt in the
foreseeable future without the modification, the insufficiency of the borrower's forecasted cash flows to service any of its outstanding debt (including both principal and interest), and the
borrower's inability to access alternative third-party financing at an interest rate that would be reflective of current market conditions for a non-troubled debtor. Concessions granted may include
extended maturity dates, interest rate changes, principal forgiveness, payment deferrals and easing of loan covenants.   

  As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we held no significant loans that had been modified in a TDR during those respective years.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
264  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 8. REINSURANCE    

8. REINSURANCE

In
the ordinary course of business, our insurance companies may use both treaty and facultative reinsurance to minimize their net loss exposure to any single catastrophic
loss event or to an accumulation of losses from a number of smaller events or to provide greater diversification of our businesses. In addition, our general insurance subsidiaries assume reinsurance
from other insurance companies. We determine the portion of the incurred but not reported (IBNR) loss that will be recoverable under our reinsurance contracts by reference to the terms of the
reinsurance protection purchased. This determination is necessarily based on the estimate of IBNR and accordingly, is subject to the same uncertainties as the estimate of IBNR. Reinsurance assets
include the balances due from reinsurance and insurance companies under the terms of our reinsurance agreements for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future
policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid. Amounts related to paid and unpaid losses and benefits and loss expenses with respect to these
reinsurance agreements are substantially collateralized. We remain liable to the extent that our reinsurers do not meet their obligation under the reinsurance contracts, and as such, we regularly
evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentration of our credit risk. The estimation of the allowance for doubtful accounts requires judgment for which key inputs typically
include historical trends regarding uncollectible balances, disputes and credit events as well as specific reviews of balances in dispute or subject to credit impairment. The allowance for doubtful
accounts on reinsurance assets was $276 million and $338 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts on reinsurance are
reflected in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred within the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

The following table provides supplemental information for loss and benefit reserves, gross and net of ceded reinsurance:   

(a)  In
both 2013 and 2012, the Net of Reinsurance amount reflects the cession under the June 17, 2011 transaction with National Indemnity Company (NICO) of $1.6 billion.   

  (b)  Represents
gross reinsurance assets, excluding allowances and reinsurance recoverable on paid losses.   

Short-Duration Reinsurance

Short-duration
reinsurance is effected under reinsurance treaties and by negotiation on individual risks. Certain of these reinsurance arrangements consist of excess of loss
contracts that protect us against losses above stipulated amounts. Ceded premiums are considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a reduction of premiums earned over the contract
period in proportion to the protection received. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on short-duration contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the claims liabilities associated with the
reinsurance and presented as a component of Reinsurance assets. Assumed reinsurance premiums are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the reinsurance contracts and the portion of
premiums relating to the unexpired terms of coverage is included in the reserve for unearned premiums. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met for reinsurance
accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements are not met, the contract is accounted for as a deposit, resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or
liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of both underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable
possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. Similar risk transfer criteria are used to determine whether directly written insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or as
a deposit.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
265  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 8. REINSURANCE    

The following table presents short-duration insurance premiums written and earned:     

For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, reinsurance recoveries, which reduced loss and loss expenses incurred, amounted to
$3.3 billion, $4.5 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively.   

Long-Duration Reinsurance

Long-duration
reinsurance is effected principally under yearly renewable term treaties. The premiums with respect to these treaties are earned over the contract period in
proportion to the protection provided. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on long-duration contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the assumptions used for the underlying policy benefits
and are presented as a component of Reinsurance assets.   

   The following table presents premiums for our long-duration insurance and retirement services operations:   

Long-duration reinsurance recoveries, which reduced Policyholder benefits and claims incurred, were approximately $714 million, $758 million and
$611 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.   

The following table presents long-duration insurance in force ceded to other insurance companies:   

*     Excludes
amounts related to held-for-sale entities.   

Long-duration insurance in force assumed represented 0.05 percent of gross long-duration insurance in force at December 31, 2013,
0.05 percent at December 31, 2012 and 0.07 percent at December 31, 2011, and premiums assumed by AIG Life and Retirement represented 0.4 percent, 0.6 percent
and 0.7 percent of gross premiums for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement utilizes internal and third-party reinsurance relationships to manage insurance risks and to facilitate capital management strategies. As a result of these reinsurance
arrangements, AIG Life and Retirement is able to minimize the use of letters of credit and utilize capital more efficiently. Pools of highly-rated third-party reinsurers are utilized to manage net
amounts at risk in excess of retention limits.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement manages the capital impact on its insurance subsidiaries of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX through intercompany reinsurance
transactions. Under GAAP, these intercompany reinsurance transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Under one of these intercompany arrangements, AIG Life and Retirement obtains letters of credit
to support statutory recognition of the ceded reinsurance. As of December 31, 2013, AIG Life and Retirement had obtained for this purpose a $260 million syndicated letter of credit
facility and a $190 million bilateral letter of credit. As of December 31, 2013, all of the $450 million of letters of credit were due to mature on December 31, 2015. On
February 7, 2014, these letters of   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
266  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 8. REINSURANCE    

credit
were replaced with two new, renegotiated bilateral letters of credit totaling $450 million. These new letters of credit expire on February 7, 2018, but will be automatically
extended without amendment by one year on each anniversary of the issuance date, unless the issuer provides notice of non-renewal. See Note 19 for additional information on the use of
affiliated reinsurance for Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves.   

Reinsurance Security

Our
third-party reinsurance arrangements do not relieve us from our direct obligations to our beneficiaries. Thus, a credit exposure exists with respect to both
short-duration and long-duration reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. We hold substantial collateral as security
under related reinsurance agreements in the form of funds, securities, and/or letters of credit. A provision has been recorded for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance.   

9. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

Deferred
policy acquisition costs (DAC) represent those costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal of existing insurance
contracts. We defer incremental costs that result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition or renewal of an insurance contract. Such deferred policy acquisition costs generally include
agent or broker commissions and bonuses, premium taxes, and medical and inspection fees that would not have been incurred if the insurance contract had not been acquired or renewed. Each cost is
analyzed to assess whether it is fully deferrable. We partially defer costs, including certain commissions, when we do not believe that the entire cost is directly related to the acquisition or
renewal of insurance contracts.   

  We
also defer a portion of employee total compensation and payroll-related fringe benefits directly related to time spent performing specific acquisition or renewal activities, including costs
associated with the time spent on underwriting, policy issuance and processing, and sales force contract selling. The amounts deferred are derived based on successful efforts for each distribution
channel and/or cost center from which the cost originates.   

Short-duration insurance contracts:       Policy acquisition costs
are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums written are earned, generally 12 months. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are
acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Investment income is anticipated in assessing the
recoverability of DAC. We assess the recoverability of DAC on an annual basis or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. This assessment is performed by comparing
recorded net unearned premiums and anticipated investment income on in-force business to the sum of expected claims, claims adjustment expenses, unamortized DAC and maintenance costs. If the sum of
these costs exceeds the amount of recorded net unearned premiums and anticipated investment income, the excess is recognized as an offset against the asset established for DAC. This offset is referred
to as a premium deficiency charge. Increases in expected claims and claims adjustment expenses can have a significant impact on the likelihood and amount of a premium deficiency charge.   

Long-duration insurance contracts:       Policy acquisition costs
for participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, over the premium paying period. The assumptions used to
calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC for these traditional products are set when a policy is
issued and do not change with changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. These "locked-in" assumptions include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and
investment returns, and include margins for adverse deviation to reflect uncertainty given that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions. Loss recognition exists when there is a
shortfall between the carrying amounts of future policy benefit liabilities net of DAC and the amount the future policy benefit liabilities net of DAC would be when applying updated current
assumptions. When we determine a loss recognition exists, we first reduce any DAC related to that block of business through amortization of acquisition expense, and after DAC is depleted, record
additional liabilities through a charge to Policyholder benefits and claims incurred. Groupings for loss recognition testing are consistent with our manner of acquiring and servicing the business and
applied by product groupings. We perform separate loss recognition tests for traditional life products, payout annuities and long-term care products. Once loss recognition has been recorded for a
block of business, the old assumption set is replaced and the assumption set used for the loss recognition would then be subject to the lock-in principle.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
267  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 9. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS    

Investment-oriented contracts:       Policy
acquisition costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life and investment-type products (collectively, investment-oriented products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation
to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts. Estimated gross profits include net investment income and spreads, net realized investment gains
and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality gains and losses. In each reporting period, current period amortization expense is adjusted to reflect actual gross profits. If estimated
gross profits change significantly, DAC is recalculated using the new assumptions, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. If the new assumptions indicate that future estimated gross
profits are higher than previously estimated, DAC will be increased resulting in a decrease in amortization expense and increase in income in the current period; if future estimated gross profits are
lower than previously estimated, DAC will be decreased resulting in an increase in amortization expense and decrease in income in the current period. Updating such assumptions may result in
acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other products. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and
measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the current and projected future profitability of the underlying insurance contracts.   

  To
estimate future estimated gross profits for variable annuity products, a long-term annual asset growth assumption is applied to determine the future growth in assets and related asset-based fees.
In determining the asset growth rate, the effect of short-term fluctuations in the equity markets is partially mitigated through the use of a "reversion to the mean" methodology whereby short-term
asset growth above or below long-term annual rate assumptions impact the growth assumption applied to the five-year period subsequent to the current balance sheet date. The reversion to the mean
methodology allows us to maintain our long-term growth assumptions, while also giving consideration to the effect of actual investment performance. When actual performance significantly deviates from
the annual long-term growth assumption, as evidenced by growth assumptions in the five-year reversion to the mean period falling below a certain rate (floor) or above a certain rate (cap) for a
sustained period, judgment may be applied to revise or "unlock" the growth rate assumptions to be used for both the five-year reversion to the mean period as well as the long-term annual growth
assumption applied to subsequent periods.   

Shadow DAC and Shadow Loss
Recognition:       DAC held for investment-oriented products is also adjusted to reflect the effect of unrealized gains or losses on fixed
maturity and equity securities available for sale on estimated gross profits, with related changes recognized through Other comprehensive income (shadow DAC). The adjustment is made at each balance
sheet date, as if the securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. Similarly, for long-duration traditional insurance contracts, if the
assets supporting the liabilities maintain a temporary net unrealized gain position at the balance sheet date, loss recognition testing assumptions are updated to exclude such gains from future cash
flows by reflecting the impact of reinvestment rates on future yields. If a future loss is anticipated under this basis, any additional shortfall indicated by loss recognition tests is recognized as a
reduction in accumulated other comprehensive income (shadow loss recognition). Similar to other loss recognition on long-duration insurance contracts, such shortfall is first reflected as a reduction
in DAC and secondly as an increase in liabilities for future policy benefits. The change in these adjustments, net of tax, is included with the change in net unrealized appreciation of investments
that is credited or charged directly to Other comprehensive income.   

Internal Replacements of Long-duration and Investment-oriented
Products:       For some products, policyholders can elect to modify product benefits, features, rights or coverages by exchanging a contract
for a new contract or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. These transactions are known as internal replacements. If the
modification does not substantially change the contract, we do not change the accounting and amortization of existing DAC and related actuarial balances. If an internal
replacement represents a substantial change, the original contract is considered to be extinguished and any related DAC or other policy balances are charged or credited to income whereas any new
deferrable costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred.   

  Value
of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of acquisition and is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets with DAC. This value is based on the present value of future pre-tax
profits discounted at yields applicable at the time of purchase. For participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products, VOBA is amortized over the life of the business in
a manner similar to that for DAC based on the assumptions at purchase. For investment-oriented products, VOBA is amortized in relation to estimated gross profits and adjusted for the effect of
unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale in a manner similar to DAC.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
268  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 9. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS    

   The following table presents a rollforward of DAC:   

*     Includes
$1.1 billion, $1.8 billion, and $1.4 billion for AIG Life and Retirement at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $34 million
for Divested businesses at December 31, 2011, related to the effect of net unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities.   

VOBA amortization expense included in the table above was $21 million, $53 million and $34 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively,
while the unamortized balance of VOBA was $351 million, $339 million and $430 million at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The percentage of the unamortized
balance of VOBA at December 31, 2013 expected to be amortized in 2014 through 2018 by year is: 4.6 percent, 6.3 percent, 5.6 percent, 5.3 percent and
5.3 percent, respectively, with 72.8 percent being amortized after five years. These projections are based on current estimates for investment income and spreads, persistency, mortality
and morbidity assumptions. The DAC amortization expense charged to income includes the increase or decrease of amortization related to Net realized capital gains (losses), primarily in AIG Life and
Retirement. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, amortization expense related to Net realized capital gains (losses) increased by $23 million, $119 million and $274 million, respectively.   

DAC,
VOBA and SIA for insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products are reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business. This review involves
significant management judgment. If actual future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, AIG's DAC, VOBA and SIA may be subject to an impairment charge and AIG's results of operations
could be significantly affected in future periods.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
269  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES    

10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

A
variable interest entity (VIE) is a legal entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support
or is structured such that equity investors lack the ability to make significant decisions relating to the entity's operations through voting rights or do not substantively participate in the gains
and losses of the entity. Consolidation of a VIE by its primary beneficiary is not based on majority voting interest, but is based on other criteria discussed below.   

We
enter into various arrangements with VIEs in the normal course of business and consolidate the VIE when we determine we are the primary beneficiary. This analysis includes a review of the VIE's
capital structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature of the VIE's operations and purpose, nature of the VIE's interests issued and our involvement with the entity. When assessing the need to
consolidate a VIE, we evaluate the design of the VIE as well as the related risks the entity was designed to expose the variable interest holders to.   

  For
VIEs with attributes consistent with that of an investment company or a money market fund, the primary beneficiary is the party or group of related parties that absorbs a majority of the expected
losses of the VIE, receives the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.   

  For
all other VIEs, the primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affect the entity's economic performance and
(2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE. While also considering these factors, the consolidation conclusion depends
on the breadth of our decision-making ability and our ability to influence activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
270  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES    

Balance Sheet Classification and Exposure to Loss

The following table presents the total assets and total liabilities associated with our variable interests in consolidated VIEs, as classified in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets:   

(a)  The
assets of each VIE can be used only to settle specific obligations of that VIE.   

  (b)  At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, includes approximately $21.4 billion and $12.8 billion, respectively, of investment-grade debt securities, loans and other assets
held by certain securitization vehicles that issued beneficial interests in these investments. The majority of the beneficial interests issued are held by AIG.   

(c)  At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, off-balance sheet exposure primarily consisting of commitments to real estate and investments funds was $50.8 million and
$48.7 million, respectively.   

We calculate our maximum exposure to loss to be (i) the amount invested in the debt or equity of the VIE, (ii) the notional amount of VIE assets
or liabilities where we have also provided credit protection to the VIE with the VIE as the referenced obligation, and (iii) other commitments and guarantees to the VIE. Interest holders in
VIEs sponsored by us generally have recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to us, except in limited circumstances when we have provided a guarantee to the
VIE's interest holders.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
271  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES    

   The following table presents total assets of unconsolidated VIEs in which we hold a variable interest, as well as our maximum exposure to loss associated with these
VIEs:   

*     At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, $2.8 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, of our total unconsolidated VIE assets were recorded as Other invested assets.   

Real Estate and Investment Funds

Through
our insurance operations and AIG Global Real Estate, we are an investor in various real estate investment entities, some of which are VIEs. These investments are
typically with unaffiliated third-party developers via a partnership or limited liability company structure. The VIEs' activities consist of the development or redevelopment of commercial, industrial
and residential real estate. Our involvement varies from being a passive equity investor or finance provider to actively managing the activities of the VIEs.   

Our
insurance operations participate as passive investors in the equity issued by certain third-party-managed hedge and private equity funds that are VIEs. Our insurance operations typically are not
involved in the design or establishment of these VIEs, nor do they actively participate in the management of the VIEs.   

Securitization Vehicles

We
created VIEs that hold investments, primarily in investment-grade debt securities, and issued beneficial interests in these investments. The majority of these beneficial
interests are owned by our insurance operations and we maintain the power to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impacts their economic performance and bear the obligation to
absorb losses or receive benefits from the entities that could potentially be significant to the entities. Accordingly, we consolidate these entities and those beneficial interests issued to
third-parties are reported as Long-term debt.   

Structured Investment Vehicles

Through
DIB, we sponsor Nightingale Finance Ltd, a structured investment vehicle (SIV), which is a VIE. Nightingale Finance Ltd. invests in variable rate,
investment-grade debt securities, the majority of which are ABS. We have no equity interest in the SIV, but we maintain the power to direct the activities of the SIV that most significantly impact the
entity's economic performance and bear the obligation to absorb economic losses that could potentially be significant to the SIV. We are the primary beneficiary and consolidate the assets of the SIV,
which were approximately $0.8 billion and $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Related liabilities have increased during 2013 and totaled close to
$0.1 billion.   

Affordable Housing Partnerships

SunAmerica
Affordable Housing Partners, Inc. (SAAHP) organizes and invests in limited partnerships that develop and operate affordable housing qualifying for federal
tax credits, in addition to a few market rate properties across the United States. The general partners in the operating partnerships are generally unaffiliated third-party developers.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
272  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES    

  We
do not consolidate an operating partnership if the general partner is an unaffiliated entity. Through approximately 1,000 partnerships, SAAHP has investments in developments with approximately
130,000 apartment units nationwide, and as of December 31, 2013, has syndicated approximately $7.7 billion in partnership equity to other investors who will receive, among other
benefits, tax credits under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. The pre-tax income of SAAHP is reported, along with other AIG Life and Retirement partnership income, as a component of the
AIG Life and Retirement segment.   

Other

Aircraft Trusts

We
created two VIEs for the purpose of acquiring, owning, leasing, maintaining, operating and selling aircraft. Our subsidiaries hold beneficial interests, including all the
equity interests in these entities. These beneficial interests include passive investments by our insurance operations in non-voting preferred equity interests and in the majority of the debt issued
by these entities. We maintain the power to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the entities' economic performance, and bear the obligation to absorb economic losses or
receive economic benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. As a result, we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary and we consolidate the assets and liabilities of these
entities, which totaled $0.9 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively at December 31, 2013 and $1.2 billion and $0.3 billion at December 31, 2012, respectively.
The debt of these entities is not an obligation of, or guaranteed by, us or any of our subsidiaries. Under a servicing agreement, ILFC acts as servicer for the aircraft owned by these entities.   

Commercial Loans Vehicles

We
sponsor one VIE that has issued a variable funding note backed by a commercial loan collateralized by individual life insurance assets. As of December 31, 2013,
total consolidated assets and liabilities for this entity were $360 million and $117 million, respectively; our maximum exposure, representing the carrying value of the consumer loan,
was $330 million. As of December 31, 2012, total consolidated assets and liabilities for this entity were $412 million and $188 million, respectively; our maximum exposure,
representing the carrying value of the consumer loan, was $389 million.   

RMBS, CMBS, Other ABS and CDOS

Through
our insurance operations, we are a passive investor in RMBS, CMBS, other ABS and CDOs primarily issued by domestic special-purpose entities. We generally do not
sponsor or transfer assets to, or act as the servicer to these asset-backed structures, and were not involved in the design of these entities.   

  Through
the DIB, we also invest in CDOs and similar structures, which can be cash-based or synthetic and are managed by third parties. The role of DIB is generally limited to that of a passive
investor in structures we do not manage.   

  Our
maximum exposure in these types of structures is limited to our investment in securities issued by these entities. Based on the nature of our investments and our passive involvement in these types
of structures, we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of these entities. We have not included these entities in the above tables; however, the fair values of our investments in
these structures are reported in Notes 5 and 6 herein.   

Variable Interest Entities of Business Held for Sale

Financing Vehicles

ILFC
created wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purpose of purchasing aircraft and obtaining financing secured by such aircraft. A portion of the secured debt has been
guaranteed by the European Export Credit Agencies and the Export-Import Bank of the United States. These entities are VIEs because they do not have sufficient equity to operate without ILFC's
subordinated financial support in the form of intercompany notes which serve as equity. ILFC fully consolidates the entities, controls all the activities of the entities and guarantees the
activities of the entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table as they are wholly-owned and there are no other variable interests other than those of ILFC and the lenders.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
273  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES    

Leasing Entities

ILFC
created wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purpose of facilitating aircraft leases with airlines. The entities are VIEs because they do not have sufficient equity to
operate without ILFC's subordinated financial support in the form of intercompany notes which serve as equity. ILFC consolidates the entities, controls all the activities of the entities and fully
guarantees the activities of the entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table as they are wholly owned and there are no other variable interests in the entities other than those of
ILFC.   

11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING

We
use derivatives and other financial instruments as part of our financial risk management programs and as part of our investment operations. Interest rate, currency,
equity and commodity swaps, credit contracts (including the super senior credit default swap portfolio), swaptions, options and forward transactions are accounted for as derivatives, recorded on a
trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in income, when appropriate. In certain instances, a contract's transaction price is the best indication of
initial fair value. Aggregate asset or liability positions are netted on the Consolidated Balance Sheets only to the extent permitted by qualifying master netting arrangements in place with each
respective counterparty. Cash collateral posted with counterparties in conjunction with transactions supported by qualifying master netting arrangements is reported as a reduction of the corresponding
net derivative liability, while cash collateral received in conjunction with transactions supported by qualifying master netting arrangements is reported as a reduction of the corresponding net
derivative asset.   

  Derivatives,
with the exception of bifurcated embedded derivatives, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Derivative assets, at fair value and Derivative liabilities, at fair value. A
bifurcated embedded derivative is measured at fair value and accounted for in the same manner as a free standing derivative contract. The corresponding host contract is accounted for according to the
accounting guidance applicable for that instrument. A bifurcated embedded derivative is generally presented with the host contract in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 5 herein for
additional information on embedded policy derivatives.   

   The following table presents the notional amounts and fair values of our derivative instruments:   

(a)  Fair
value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral.   

  (b)  Includes
cross currency swaps.   

  (c)  Notional
amount of derivative assets and fair value of derivative assets include $23.2 billion and $107 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013 related to
bifurcated embedded derivatives. There were no bifurcated embedded derivative assets at December 31, 2012. Notional amount of derivative liabilities and fair values of derivative liabilities
include $6.7 billion and $424 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013 and $23 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively at December 31, 2012 related to
bifurcated embedded derivatives. A bifurcated embedded derivative is generally presented with the host contract in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

  (d)  Consist
primarily of contracts with multiple underlying exposures.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
274  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING    

The following table presents the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets:   

(a)  Represents
derivatives used to hedge the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with insurance as well as embedded derivatives included in insurance contracts. Assets and
liabilities include bifurcated embedded derivatives, which are recorded in Policyholder contract deposits.   

  (b)  Represents
netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement.   

  (c)  Represents
cash collateral posted and received that is eligible for netting.   

Collateral

We
engage in derivative transactions that are not subject to a clearing requirement directly with unaffiliated third parties, in most cases, under International Swaps and
Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements. Many of the ISDA agreements also include Credit Support Annex (CSA) provisions, which generally provide for collateral postings at various
ratings and threshold levels. We attempt to reduce our risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable collateral to be obtained from a counterparty on an upfront or
contingent basis. We minimize the risk that counterparties to transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral value and
generally requiring additional collateral to be posted upon the occurrence of certain events or circumstances. In addition, certain derivative transactions have provisions that require collateral to
be posted upon a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings or give the counterparty the right to terminate the transaction. In the case of some of the derivative transactions, upon a downgrade of our
long-term debt ratings, as an alternative to posting collateral and subject to certain conditions, we may assign the transaction to an obligor with higher debt ratings or arrange for a substitute
guarantee of our obligations by an obligor with higher debt ratings or take other similar action. The actual amount of collateral required to be posted to counterparties in the event of such
downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at and
after the time of the downgrade.   

  Collateral
posted by us to third parties for derivative transactions was $3.2 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. In the case
of collateral posted under derivative transactions that are not subject to clearing, this collateral can generally be repledged or resold by the counterparties. Collateral provided to us from third
parties for derivative transactions was $1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. We generally can repledge or resell this
collateral to the extent it is posted under derivative transactions that are not subject to clearing.   

Offsetting

We
have elected to present all derivative receivables and derivative payables, and the related cash collateral received and paid, on a net basis on our Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets when a legally enforceable ISDA Master Agreement exists between us and our derivative counterparty. An ISDA Master Agreement is an agreement between two counterparties,
which may have multiple derivative transactions with each other governed by such agreement, and such ISDA Master Agreement generally provides for the net settlement of all or a specified group of
these derivative transactions, as well as cash collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
275  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING    

  of
a default on, or affecting any, one derivative transaction or a termination event affecting all, or a specified group of, derivative transactions.   

Hedge Accounting

We
designated certain derivatives entered into by GCM with third parties as fair value hedges of available-for-sale investment securities held by our insurance subsidiaries.
The fair value hedges include foreign currency forwards designated as hedges of the change in fair value of foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to changes in
foreign exchange rates. We previously designated certain interest rate swaps entered into by GCM with third parties as cash flow hedges of certain floating rate debt issued by ILFC, specifically to
hedge the changes in cash flows on floating rate debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. We de-designated such cash flow hedges in December 2012 in connection with ILFC being
classified as held-for-sale.   

  We
use foreign currency denominated debt and cross-currency swaps as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with our non-U.S. dollar
functional currency foreign subsidiaries. We assess the hedge effectiveness and measure the amount of ineffectiveness for these hedge relationships based on changes in spot exchange rates. For the
years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 we recognized losses of $38 million, $74 million and $13 million, respectively, included in Change in foreign currency
translation adjustment in Other comprehensive income related to the net investment hedge relationships.   

  A
qualitative methodology is utilized to assess hedge effectiveness for net investment hedges, while regression analysis is employed for all other hedges.   

   The following table presents the gain (loss) recognized in earnings on our derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statements of
Income:   

Years ended December 31,      (in millions)    

2013    

2012   

2011   

Interest rate contracts:  

Gain (loss) recognized in earnings on derivatives (a)   

$  

(5   

)     
   
  $  

$  
  (4  
  )  

Gain recognized in earnings on hedged items (b)   

102     

124  

153  

Gain (loss) recognized in earnings for ineffective portion (c)   

(1  
  )  

Foreign exchange contracts: (c)   

Loss recognized in earnings on derivatives  

(187   

)     

(2  
  )  
     
  (1  
  )  

Gain recognized in earnings on hedged items  

204     

2  

1  

Gain (loss) recognized in earnings for amounts excluded from effectiveness testing  

17     

(a)  Includes
$1 million gain recorded in Interest credited to policyholder account balances and $6 million loss recorded in Net realized capital gains (losses).   

  (b)  Includes
gains of $99 million, $124 million and $149 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing the
amortization of debt basis adjustment recorded in Other income and Net realized capital gains (losses) following the discontinuation of hedge accounting. Includes a $2 million loss, for the
year ended December 31, 2013, recorded in Interest credited to policyholder account balances, representing the accretion on GIC contracts that had a fair value different than par at inception
of the hedge relationship.   

  (c)  Gains
and losses recognized in earnings for the ineffective portion and amounts excluded from effectiveness testing, if any, are recorded in Net realized capital gains (losses).   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
276  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING    

The following table presents the effect of our derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statements
of Income:   

(a)  Hedge
accounting was discontinued in December 2012 in connection with ILFC being classified as held-for-sale. Gains and losses recognized in earnings are recorded in Income from
continuing operations. Previously the effective portion of the change in fair value of a derivative qualifying as a cash flow hedge was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income until
earnings were affected by the variability of cash flows in the hedged item. Gains and losses reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income were previously recorded in Other income. Gains or
losses recognized in earnings on derivatives for the ineffective portion were previously recorded in Net realized capital gains (losses).   

  (b)  Includes
$19 million for the year ended December 2012, representing the reclassification from Accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings following the discontinuation
of cash flow hedges of ILFC debt.   

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments

The following table presents the effect of our derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statements of
Income:   

(a)  Includes
cross currency swaps.   

  (b)  Includes
embedded derivative gains (losses) of $1.2 billion, $(166) million and $(397) million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.   

Global Capital Markets Derivatives

Derivative
transactions between AIG and its subsidiaries and third parties are generally centralized through GCM, specifically AIG Markets. The portfolio of this entity
consists primarily of interest rate and currency derivatives and also includes legacy credit derivatives that have been novated to this entity. Another of GCM's entities, AIGFP, also enters into
derivatives to mitigate market risk in its exposures (interest rates, currencies, credit, commodities and equities) arising from its transactions.   

  GCM
follows a policy of minimizing interest rate, currency, commodity, and equity risks associated with investment securities by entering into offsetting positions, thereby offsetting a significant
portion of the unrealized appreciation and depreciation.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
277  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING    

Super Senior Credit Default Swaps

Credit
default swap transactions were entered into with the intention of earning revenue on credit exposure. In the majority of these transactions, we sold credit protection
on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. Generally, such credit protection was provided on a "second loss" basis, meaning we would incur credit losses only after a shortfall of principal
and/or interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected loans and debt securities, exceeded a specified threshold amount or level of "first losses."   

   The following table presents the net notional amount, fair value of derivative (asset) liability and unrealized market valuation gain (loss) of the super senior credit default
swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions, by asset class:   

(a)  Net
notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches. The decrease in the total net notional amount from December 31, 2012 to
December 31, 2013 was due to amortization of $1.0 billion and terminations and maturities of $69 million, partially offset by increases due to foreign exchange rate movement of
$313 million.   

  (b)  Fair
value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral.   

(c)  Includes
credit valuation adjustment losses of $5 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, representing the effect of
changes in our credit spreads on the valuation of the derivatives liabilities.   

  (d)  During
2013, we paid $143 million to counterparties with respect to multi-sector CDOs, which was previously included in the fair value of the derivative liability as an
unrealized market valuation loss. Multi-sector CDOs also include $2.8 billion and $3.4 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Collateral postings with regards to multi-sector CDOs were $1.1 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2013
and December 31, 2012, respectively.   

  (e)  Corporate
debt/Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLOs) include $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the super senior
tranches of CLOs at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Collateral postings with regards to corporate debt/CLOs were $353 million and $420 million at December 31,
2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.   

The expected weighted average maturity of the super senior credit derivative portfolios as of December 31, 2013 was six years for the multi-sector CDO
arbitrage portfolio and two years for the corporate debt/CLO portfolio.   

  Because
of long-term maturities of the CDSs in the arbitrage portfolio, we are unable to make reasonable estimates of the periods during which any payments would be made. However, the net notional
amount represents the maximum exposure to loss on the super senior credit default swap portfolio.   

Written Single Name Credit Default Swaps

We
have legacy credit default swap contracts referencing single-name exposures written on corporate, index and asset-backed credits with the intention of earning spread
income on credit exposure. Some of these transactions were entered into as part of a long-short strategy to earn the net spread between CDSs written and purchased. At December 31, 2013 and
2012, the net notional amounts of these written CDS contracts were $373 million and $410 million, respectively, including ABS CDS transactions purchased from a liquidated multi-sector
super senior CDS transaction. These exposures were partially hedged by purchasing offsetting CDS contracts of $50 million and   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
278  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING    

$51 million
in net notional amounts at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The net unhedged positions of $323 million and $359 million at December 31, 2013 and
2012, respectively, represent the maximum exposure to loss on these CDS contracts. The average maturity of the written CDS contracts was three years and four years at December 31, 2013 and
2012, respectively. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair values of derivative liabilities (which represents the carrying value) of the portfolio of CDS was $32 million and
$48 million, respectively.   

  Upon
a triggering event (e.g., a default) with respect to the underlying reference obligations, settlement is generally effected through the payment of the notional amount of the contract to
the counterparty in exchange for the related principal amount of securities issued by the underlying credit obligor (physical settlement) or, in some cases, payment of an amount associated with the
value of the notional amount of the reference obligations through a market quotation process (cash settlement).   

  These
CDS contracts were written under ISDA Master Agreements. The majority of these ISDA Master Agreements include credit support annexes (CSAs) that provide for collateral postings at various
ratings and threshold levels. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, net collateral posted by us under these contracts was $38 million and $64 million, respectively, prior to offsets for
other transactions.   

All Other Derivatives

Our
businesses, other than GCM, also use derivatives and other instruments as part of their financial risk management. Interest rate derivatives (such as interest rate
swaps) are used to manage interest rate risk associated with embedded derivatives contained in insurance contract liabilities, fixed maturity securities, outstanding medium- and long-term notes as
well as other interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. Foreign exchange derivatives (principally foreign exchange forwards and options) are used to economically mitigate risk associated with
non-U.S. dollar denominated debt, net capital exposures, and foreign currency transactions. Equity
derivatives are used to mitigate financial risk embedded in certain insurance liabilities. The derivatives are effective economic hedges of the exposures that they are meant to offset.   

  In
addition to hedging activities, we also enter into derivative instruments with respect to investment operations, which include, among other things, credit default swaps and purchasing investments
with embedded derivatives, such as equity-linked notes and convertible bonds.   

Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features

The
aggregate fair value of our derivative instruments that contain credit risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at December 31, 2013
and 2012, was approximately $2.6 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively. The aggregate fair value of assets posted as collateral under these contracts at December 31, 2013 and
2012, was 3.1 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively.   

  We
estimate that at December 31, 2013, based on our outstanding financial derivative transactions, a one-notch downgrade of our long-term senior debt ratings to BBB+ by Standard   Poor's
Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (S P), would permit counterparties to make additional collateral calls and permit certain counterparties to elect
early termination of contracts, resulting in a negligible amount of corresponding collateral postings and termination payments; a one-notch downgrade to Baa2 by Moody's Investors' Service, Inc.
(Moody's) and an additional one-notch downgrade to BBB by S P would result in approximately $65 million in additional collateral postings and termination payments, and a further one-notch
downgrade to Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S P would result in approximately $111 million in additional collateral postings and termination payments.   

  Additional
collateral postings upon downgrade are estimated based on the factors in the individual collateral posting provisions of the CSA with each counterparty and current exposure as of
December 31, 2013. Factors considered in estimating the termination payments upon downgrade include current market conditions, the complexity of the derivative transactions, historical
termination experience and other observable market events such as bankruptcy and downgrade events that have occurred at other companies. Our estimates are also based on the assumption that
counterparties will terminate based on their net exposure to us. The actual termination payments could significantly differ from our estimates given market conditions at the time of downgrade and the
level of uncertainty in estimating
both the number of counterparties who may elect to exercise their right to terminate and the payment that may be triggered in connection with any such exercise.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
279  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 11. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING    

Hybrid Securities with Embedded Credit Derivatives

We
invest in hybrid securities (such as credit-linked notes) with the intent of generating income, and not specifically to acquire exposure to embedded derivative risk. As
is the case with our other investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS, our investments in these hybrid securities are exposed to losses only up to the amount of our initial investment in the hybrid
security. Other than our initial investment in the hybrid securities, we have no further obligation to make payments on the embedded credit derivatives in the related hybrid securities.   

  We
elect to account for our investments in these hybrid securities with embedded written credit derivatives at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in Net investment income and Other
income. Our investments in these hybrid securities are reported as Other bond securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair values of these hybrid securities were $6.4 billion and
$6.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These securities have par amounts of $13.4 billion and $15 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively, and both have remaining stated maturity dates that extend to 2052.   

12. LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE, FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE
CONTRACTS, AND POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT
DEPOSITS

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense

The
liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense represents the accumulation of estimates of unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not
reported and claim adjustments expenses, less applicable discount for future investment income. We continually review and update the methods used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish
the resulting reserves. Any adjustments resulting from this review are reflected currently in pre-tax income. Because these estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates
are common given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred
to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development.   

  Our
gross loss reserves before reinsurance and discount are net of contractual deductible recoverable amounts due from policyholders of approximately $12.0 billion and $11.7 billion at
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These recoverable amounts are related to certain policies with high deductibles (primarily for U.S. commercial casualty business) where we manage and
pay the entire claim on behalf of the insured and are reimbursed by the insured for the deductible portion of the claim. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we held collateral totaling
$9.0 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, for these deductible recoverable amounts, consisting primarily of letters of credit and trust agreements.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
280  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 12. LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE, FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH
INSURANCE CONTRACTS, AND POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS     

The following table presents the reconciliation of activity in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense:   

(a)  For
the 2012 amounts, $847 million was reclassified from "Foreign exchange effect" to "Losses and loss expenses paid (current year)". The impact of this reclassification was a
decrease of $847 million for foreign exchange and loss expenses paid (current year), with no income statement or balance sheet impact.   

  (b)  In
2013, includes $144 million, $269 million, $498 million and $54 million related to excess casualty, environmental and pollution, primary casualty and
healthcare, respectively. In 2012, includes $157 million, $200 million, $531 million and $68 million related to excess casualty, environmental and pollution, primary
casualty and healthcare, respectively. In 2011, includes $(588) million, $385 million, $686 million and $45 million related to excess casualty, environmental and pollution,
primary casualty and healthcare, respectively   

  (c)  Includes
amounts related to dispositions through the date of disposition.   

The net adverse development includes loss-sensitive business, for which we recognized $89 million, $54 million and $172 million
loss-sensitive premium adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Discounting of Reserves

At
December 31, 2013, the liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense reflects a net loss reserve discount of $3.6 billion, including tabular and
non-tabular calculations based upon the following assumptions:  

Certain asbestos business that was written by AIG Property Casualty is discounted, when allowed by the regulator and when
payments are fixed and determinable, based on the investment yields of the companies and the payout pattern for this business.   
           The tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the
1979   81 Decennial Mortality Table.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
281  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 12. LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE, FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH
INSURANCE CONTRACTS, AND POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS    

The non-tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York and
Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations (prescribed or approved) for each state. For New York companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies' own payout
patterns. In 2012, for Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout
pattern. For accident years 2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and investment yields of the companies.   
           Effective for the fourth quarter of 2013, our Pennsylvania regulator approved use of a consistent discount rate (U.S.
Treasury rate plus a liquidity premium) to all of our workers' compensation reserves in our Pennsylvania-domiciled companies, as well as our use of updated payout patterns specific to our primary and
excess workers' compensation portfolios. Prior to this change, workers' compensation reserves held by a Pennsylvania-domiciled insurer were discounted as follows: i) For loss reserves
associated with accident year 2001 and prior accident years, a prescribed discount factor based on a rate of 6 percent and industry payout patterns, were applied, ii) For loss reserves
associated with accident year 2002 and subsequent accident years, a rate of 4.25 percent and our own payout patterns were applied; and iii) For a portion of loss reserves comprising
excess workers' compensation reserves that were assumed into a Pennsylvania-domiciled insurer from New York-domiciled insurers during 2011, we applied New York discounting rules, which include a
prescribed rate of 5 percent on case reserves only (no discounting of IBNR reserves). As a result of these changes, the total net discount increased by $427 million.    

  The
discount consists of the following: $798 million of tabular discount for workers' compensation in the domestic operations of AIG Property Casualty and $2.7 billion of non-tabular
discount for workers' compensation in the domestic operations of AIG Property Casualty; and $33 million   non-tabular discount for asbestos for AIG Property Casualty.   

Future Policy Benefits

Future
policy benefits primarily include reserves for traditional life and annuity payout contracts, which represent an estimate of the present value of future benefits less
the present value of future net premiums. Included in Future policy benefits are liabilities for annuities issued in structured settlement arrangements whereby a claimant has agreed to settle a
general insurance claim in exchange for fixed payments over a fixed determinable period of time with a life contingency feature. Future policy benefits also include certain guaranteed benefits of
variable annuity products that are not considered embedded derivatives, primarily guaranteed minimum death benefits. See Note 13 for additional information on liabilities for guaranteed
benefits included in Future policy benefits.   

  The
liability for long duration future policy benefits has been established on the basis of the following assumptions:  

Interest rates (exclusive of immediate/terminal funding annuities), which vary by year of issuance and products, range
from 3.0 percent to 10.0 percent within the first 20 years. Interest rates on immediate/terminal funding annuities are at a maximum of 13.5 percent and grade to not less
than zero percent.  
           Mortality and surrender rates are generally based on actual experience when the liability is established.    

Policyholder Contract Deposits

The
liability for Policyholder contract deposits is primarily recorded at accumulated value (deposits received and net transfers from separate accounts, plus accrued
interest, less withdrawals and assessed fees). Deposits collected on investment-oriented products are not reflected as revenues, because they are recorded directly to Policyholder contract deposits
upon receipt. Policyholder contract deposits also include our liability for (a) certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value,
(b) annuities issued in a structured settlement arrangement with no life contingency and (c) certain contracts we have elected to account for at fair value. See Note 13 herein for
additional information on guaranteed benefits accounted for as embedded derivatives.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
282  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 12. LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE, FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH
INSURANCE CONTRACTS, AND POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS    

The following table presents Policyholder contract deposits by product type:     

The products for which reserves are included in Policyholder contract deposits at December 31, 2013 had the following
characteristics:  

Interest rates credited on deferred annuities, which vary by year of issuance, range from 1.0 percent to, including
bonuses, 8.4 percent. Current declared interest rates are generally guaranteed to remain in effect for a period of one year though some are guaranteed for longer periods. Withdrawal charges
generally range from zero percent to 15 percent grading to zero over a period of zero to 20 years.   
           Guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) have market value withdrawal provisions for any funds withdrawn other than benefit
responsive payments. Interest rates credited generally range from 0.3 percent to 8.3 percent. The majority of these GICs mature within seven years.    
           Interest rates on corporate life insurance products are guaranteed at 3.0 percent and the weighted average rate
credited in 2013 was 4.4 percent.   
           The universal life products have credited interest rates of 1.0 percent to 8.0 percent and guarantees
ranging from 1.0 percent to 5.5 percent depending on the year of issue. Additionally, universal life funds are subject to surrender charges that amount to 8.7 percent of the
aggregate fund balance grading to zero over a period not longer than 20 years.   
           For variable products and investment contracts, policy values are expressed in terms of investment units. Each unit is
linked to an asset portfolio. The value of a unit increases or decreases based on the value of the linked asset portfolio. The current liability at any time is the sum of the current unit value of all
investment units plus any liabilities for guaranteed minimum death or guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits.    

Other Policyholder Funds

Other
policyholder funds include provisions for future dividends to participating policyholders, accrued in accordance with all applicable regulatory or contractual
provisions. Participating life business represented approximately 2.1 percent of the gross insurance in force at December 31, 2013 and 3.7 percent of gross Premiums and other
considerations in 2013. The amount of annual dividends to be paid is approved locally by the boards of directors of the insurance companies. Provisions for future dividend payments are computed by
jurisdiction, reflecting local regulations. The portions of current and prior net income and of current unrealized appreciation of investments that can inure to our benefit are restricted in some
cases by the insurance contracts and by the local insurance regulations of the jurisdictions in which the policies are in force.   

Certain
products are subject to experience adjustments. These include group life and group medical products, credit life contracts, accident and health insurance contracts/riders attached to life
policies and, to a limited extent, reinsurance agreements with other direct insurers. Ultimate premiums from these contracts are estimated and recognized as revenue, and the unearned portions of the
premiums recorded as liabilities. Experience adjustments vary according to the type of contract and the territory in which the policy is in force and are subject to local regulatory guidance.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
283  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 13. VARIABLE LIFE AND ANNUITY CONTRACTS    

13. VARIABLE LIFE AND ANNUITY CONTRACTS

We
report variable contracts within the separate accounts when investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the
contract holder and the separate account meets additional accounting criteria to qualify for separate account treatment. The assets supporting the variable portion of variable annuity and variable
universal life contracts that qualify for separate account treatment are carried at fair value and reported as separate account assets, with an equivalent summary total reported as separate account
liabilities. Amounts assessed against the contract holders for mortality, administrative, and other services are included in revenue. Net investment income, net investment gains and losses, changes in
fair value of assets, and policyholder account deposits and withdrawals related to separate accounts are excluded from the Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows.   

  Variable
annuity contracts may include certain contractually guaranteed benefits to the contract holder. These guaranteed features include guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) that are payable in
the event of death, and living benefits that are payable in the event of annuitization, or, in other instances, at specified dates during the accumulation period. Living benefits include guaranteed
minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). A variable annuity contract may include more than one type of
guaranteed benefit feature; for example, it may have both a GMDB and a GMWB. However, a policyholder can only receive payout from one guaranteed feature on a contract containing a death benefit and a
living benefit, i.e. the features are mutually exclusive. A policyholder cannot purchase more than one living benefit on one contract. The net amount at risk for each feature is calculated
irrespective of the existence of other features; as a result, the net amount at risk for each feature is not additive to that of other features.   

GMDB and GMIB

Depending
on the contract, the GMDB feature may provide a death benefit of either (a) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum
return (and in rare instances, no minimum return) or (b) the highest contract value attained, typically on any anniversary date minus any subsequent withdrawals following the contract
anniversary. GMIB guarantees a minimum level of periodic income payments upon annuitization. GMDB is our most widely offered benefit; our contracts also include GMIB to a lesser extent.   

  The
liabilities for GMDB and GMIB, which are recorded in Future policyholder benefits, represent the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized
ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments, through Policyholder benefits and claims incurred. The net amount at risk for GMDB represents the amount of benefits in excess
of account value if death claims were filed on all contracts on the balance sheet date.   

   The following table presents details concerning our GMDB exposures, by benefit type:   

The following summarizes GMDB and GMIB liabilities related to variable annuity contracts:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
284  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 13. VARIABLE LIFE AND ANNUITY CONTRACTS    

  We regularly evaluate estimates used to determine the GMDB liability and adjust the additional liability balance, with a related charge or credit to
Policyholder benefits and claims incurred, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.   

The
following assumptions and methodology were used to determine the GMDB liability at December 31, 2013:  

Data used was up to 1,000 stochastically generated investment performance scenarios.    
           Mean investment performance assumptions ranged from three percent to approximately ten percent depending on the block of
business.   
           Volatility assumption was 16 percent.   
           Mortality was assumed to be between 50 percent and 88 percent of the 1994 variable annuity minimum
guaranteed death benefit table for recent experience.   
           Lapse rates vary by contract type and duration and ranged from zero percent to 37 percent.    
           The discount rate ranged from 3.75 percent to 10 percent and is based on the growth rate assumption for the
underlying contracts in effect at the time of policy issuance.    

GMWB and GMAV

Certain
of our variable annuity contracts offer optional GMWB and GMAV benefits. The contract holder can monetize the excess of the guaranteed amount over the account value
of the contract only through a series of withdrawals that do not exceed a specific percentage per year of the guaranteed amount. If, after the series of withdrawals, the account value is exhausted,
the contract holder will receive a series of annuity payments equal to the remaining guaranteed amount, and, for lifetime GMWB products, the annuity payments can continue beyond the guaranteed amount.
The account value can also fluctuate with equity market returns on a daily basis resulting in increases or decreases in the excess of the guaranteed amount over account value.   

  The
liabilities for GMWB and GMAV, which are recorded in Policyholder contract deposits, are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the
liabilities recorded in Other realized capital gains (losses). The fair value of these embedded derivatives was a net asset of $37 million at December 31, 2013 and a net liability of
$997 million at December 31, 2012. See Note 5 herein for discussion of the fair value measurement of guaranteed benefits that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. We had
account values subject to GMWB and GMAV that totaled $28.6 billion and $19.8 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
The net amount at risk for GMWB represents the present value of minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments, in accordance with contract terms, in excess of account value. The net amount at risk for GMAV
represents the present value of minimum guaranteed account value in excess of the current account balance, assuming no lapses. The net amount at risk related to these guarantees was $63 million
and $753 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We use derivative instruments to mitigate a portion of our exposure that arises from GMWB and GMAV benefits.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
285  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 14. DEBT    

14. DEBT

AIG's
long-term debt is denominated in various currencies, with both fixed and variable interest rates. Long-term debt is carried at the principal amount borrowed, including
unamortized discounts, hedge accounting valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, where applicable. The interest rates presented in the following table reflect the range of contractual rates
in effect at year end, including fixed and variable rate issuances.   

   The following table lists our total debt outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012. The interest rates presented in the following table are the range of contractual
rates in effect at year end, including fixed and variable-rates:   

(a)  On
July 11, 2013. AIGLH junior subordinated debentures with the same terms as the trust preferred securities were distributed to holders of the trust preferred securities, and
the trust preferred securities were cancelled.   

  (b)  AIG
Parent guarantees all DIB debt, except for MIP notes payable and Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable, which are direct obligations to AIG Parent.   

  (c)  At
December 31, 2013, includes debt of consolidated investments held through AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp., AIG Credit Corp., AIG Life and Retirement and AIG Property
Casualty U.S. of $1.5 billion, $111 million, $201 million and $58 million, respectively. At December 31, 2012, includes debt of consolidated investments held through
AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp., AIG Credit Corp. and AIG Life and Retirement of $1.5 billion, $176 million and $133 million, respectively.   

  (d)  Excludes
$21.4 billion and $24.3 billion related to ILFC as it is classified as a held-for-sale business at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
286  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 14. DEBT    

   The following table presents maturities of long-term debt (including unamortized original issue discount, hedge accounting valuation
adjustments and fair value adjustments, when applicable), excluding $1.9 billion in borrowings of debt of consolidated investments:   

Uncollateralized and collateralized notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable consisted of the following:   

*     AIG
does not guarantee any of these borrowings.   

Junior Subordinated Debt

During
2007 and 2008, we issued an aggregate of $12.5 billion of junior subordinated debentures denominated in U.S. dollars, British pounds and euros in eight series
of securities. In November 2011, we exchanged certain of our outstanding U.S. dollar, British pound and euro junior subordinated debentures for newly issued senior notes in equivalent currencies
pursuant to an exchange offer. This exchange resulted in a pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $484 million, which is reflected in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the
Consolidated Statements of Income and a deferred gain of $65 million, which is being amortized as a reduction to future interest expense.   

  In
connection with the issuance of the eight series of junior subordinated debentures, we had entered into replacement capital covenants (the Original RCCs) for the benefit of the holders of "covered
debt" (a designated series of our notes). The Original RCCs provided that we would not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date,
unless we issued certain replacement capital securities. In August 2012, we issued an aggregate of $250 million of 2.375% Subordinated Notes due 2015 (the Subordinated Notes), which upon their
issuance became the "covered debt" under the Original RCCs. The holders of the newly issued Subordinated Notes, as the holders of the "covered debt" under the Original RCCs, consented to   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
287  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 14. DEBT    

  amendments
to each of those Original RCCs that deleted all of the covenants that restricted our ability to repay, redeem or purchase the applicable series of the junior subordinated debentures.   

  We
also entered into new replacement capital covenants (the New RCCs) for the initial benefit of the holders of the Subordinated Notes, in connection with our 5.75% Series A-2 Junior
Subordinated Debentures and our 4.875% Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures. We covenanted in each New RCC that, subject to certain exceptions, we would not repay, redeem or
purchase, and that none of our subsidiaries would purchase, the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures prior to the scheduled termination date of that New RCC, unless since the date
360 days prior to the date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, we have received a specified amount of net
cash proceeds from the sale of common stock or certain other qualifying securities that have certain characteristics that are at least as equity-like as the applicable characteristics of the
applicable series of junior subordinated debentures, or we or our subsidiaries have issued a specified amount of common stock in connection with the conversion or exchange of certain convertible or
exchangeable securities. In the first quarter of 2013, our obligations under the new RCCs were effectively terminated because one of the termination provisions set forth in the new RCCs was triggered
when it was determined that neither series of junior subordinated debentures received equity credit any longer for rating agency purposes.   

  In
2013, we redeemed $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 7.70% Series A-5 Junior Subordinated Debentures and $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.45%
Series A-4 Junior Subordinated Debentures, in each case for a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.   

AIGLH Junior Subordinated Debentures (Formerly, Liabilities Connected To Trust Preferred Stock)

In
connection with our acquisition of AIG Life Holdings, Inc. (AIGLH) in 2001, we entered into arrangements with AIGLH with respect to outstanding AIGLH capital
securities. In 1996, AIGLH issued capital securities through a trust to institutional investors and funded the trust with AIGLH junior subordinated debentures issued to the trust with the same terms
as the capital securities. AIG Parent guaranteed the debentures pursuant to a guarantee that is expressly subordinated to certain AIGLH senior debt securities. Under the AIG Parent guarantee, AIG
Parent was not required to make any payments in respect of the debentures if such payment would be prohibited by the subordination provisions of the debentures. As a result, AIG Parent would never be
required to make a payment under its guarantee of the debentures for so long as AIGLH was prohibited from making a payment on the debentures.   

  On
July 11, 2013, the AIGLH junior subordinated debentures were distributed to holders of the capital securities, the capital securities were cancelled and the trusts were dissolved. At
December 31, 2013, the junior subordinated debentures outstanding consisted of $300 million of 8.5 percent junior subordinated debentures due July 2030, $500 million of
8.125 percent junior subordinated debentures due March 2046 and $500 million of 7.57 percent junior subordinated debentures due December 2045, each guaranteed by AIG Parent as
described above.   

Credit Facilities

The
four-year syndicated credit facility that we entered into on October 5, 2012 (the Four-Year Facility) provides for $4.0 billion of unsecured revolving
loans, which includes a $2.0 billion letter of credit sublimit. As of December 31, 2013, a total of approximately $3.9 billion remains available under the Four-Year Facility, of
which approximately $1.9 billion remains available for letters of credit. We expect that we may draw down on the Four-Year Facility from time to time, and may use the proceeds for general
corporate purposes. The Four Year Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit. The Four-Year Facility is summarized in the following table.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
288  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES

In
the normal course of business, various contingent liabilities and commitments are entered into by AIG and our subsidiaries. In addition, AIG Parent guarantees various
obligations of certain subsidiaries.   

  Although
AIG cannot currently quantify its ultimate liability for unresolved litigation and investigation matters, including those referred to below, it is possible that such liability could have a
material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition or its consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows for an individual reporting period.   

Legal Contingencies

Overview.       In the normal course of business, AIG and our subsidiaries are, like others in the insurance and financial services industries in
general, subject to litigation, including claims for punitive damages. In our insurance and mortgage guaranty operations, litigation arising from claims settlement activities is generally considered
in the establishment of our liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. However, the potential for increasing jury awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate
outcome of such litigation. AIG is also subject to derivative, class action and other claims asserted by its shareholders and others alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duties by its
directors and officers and violations of insurance laws and regulations, as well as federal and state securities laws. In the case of any derivative action brought on behalf of AIG, any recovery would
accrue to the benefit of AIG.   

  Various
regulatory and governmental agencies have been reviewing certain transactions and practices of AIG and our subsidiaries in connection with industry-wide and other inquiries into, among other
matters, certain business practices of current and former operating insurance subsidiaries. We have cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing documents and other information in response
to subpoenas and other requests.   

AIG's Subprime Exposure, AIGFP Credit Default Swap Portfolio and Related Matters

AIG,
AIGFP and certain directors and officers of AIG, AIGFP and other AIG subsidiaries have been named in various actions relating to our exposure to the U.S. residential
subprime mortgage market, unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP's super senior credit default swap portfolio, losses and liquidity constraints relating to our securities lending program and
related disclosure and other matters (Subprime Exposure Issues).   

    Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation.       Between May 21, 2008 and January 15, 2009, eight purported securities class action
complaints were filed against AIG and certain directors and officers of AIG and AIGFP, AIG's outside auditors, and the underwriters of various securities offerings in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York (the Southern District of New York), alleging claims under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or claims under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). On March 20, 2009, the Court consolidated all eight of the purported securities class actions as In re American International Group, Inc. 2008
Securities Litigation (the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation).   

  On
May 19, 2009, the lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation filed a consolidated complaint on behalf of purchasers of AIG Common Stock during the alleged class period of
March 16, 2006 through September 16, 2008, and on behalf of purchasers of various AIG securities offered pursuant to AIG's shelf registration statements. The consolidated complaint
alleges that defendants made statements during the class period in press releases, AIG's quarterly and year-end filings, during conference calls, and in various registration statements and
prospectuses in connection with the various offerings that were materially false and misleading and that artificially inflated the price of AIG Common Stock. The alleged false and misleading
statements relate to, among other things, the Subprime Exposure Issues. The consolidated complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Sections 11,
12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act. On August 5, 2009, defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint, and on September 27, 2010, the Court denied the motions to
dismiss.   

  On
April 1, 2011, the lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation filed a motion to certify a class of plaintiffs. On November 2, 2011, the Court terminated the motion
without prejudice to an application for restoration. On March 30, 2012, the lead plaintiff filed a renewed motion to certify a class of plaintiffs.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
289  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  On
April 26, 2013, the Court granted a motion for judgment on the pleadings brought by the defendants. The Court's order dismissed all claims against the outside auditors in their entirety, and
it also reduced the scope of the Securities Act claims against AIG and defendants other than the outside auditors.   

  On
September 23, 2013, at the request of the parties, the Court terminated lead plaintiff's motion for class certification without prejudice to reinstatement.   

On
January 30, 2014, the Court stayed proceedings in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation pending a decision in    Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John
Fund, Inc.   , No. 13-317 (U.S. Nov. 15, 2013), in which the U.S. Supreme Court will consider the validity of, and what is needed to invoke or rebut, the
fraud-on-the-market presumption of reliance necessary for certification of a class of claims under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. We have accrued our current estimate of probable loss with
respect to this litigation.   

    Individual Securities Litigations.       On November 18, 2011, January 20, 2012, June 11, 2012, August 8, 2012 and
May 17, 2013, September 13, 2013, and September 16, 2013, seven separate, though similar, securities actions were filed in the Southern District of New York by the Kuwait
Investment Authority, various Oppenheimer Funds, eight foreign funds and investment entities led by the British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme, Pacific Life Funds and Pacific Select Fund, the
Teachers Retirement System of the State of Illinois, 12 foreign funds and management companies, and GIC Private Limited against AIG and certain directors and officers of AIG and AIGFP (the action by
the British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme also names as defendants AIG's outside auditors and the underwriters of various securities offerings; the action by GIC Private Limited only names AIG as a
defendant). The parties have agreed to stay discovery in these actions until the earlier of (i) the Court deciding the motion for class certification pending in the Consolidated 2008 Securities
Litigation following 30 days' notice from any party in their respective
action, (ii) the preliminary approval of any settlement in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation, (iii) February 27, 2014, or (iv) such earlier or other date as the
Court may order.   

  On
August 6, 2013, two separate, though similar, securities actions were brought by 25 funds (collectively, the Dow 30 SM  plaintiffs) and the Regents of the University of
California, against AIG and certain officers of AIG and AIGFP. The Dow 30 SM  action was filed in the Northern District of Illinois and the action filed by the Regents of the
University of California was filed in the Northern District of California. On February 18, 2014, the parties in each case filed stipulations to transfer the Dow 30 SM  and
the Regents of the University of California actions to the Southern District of New York, which transfers are pending court approval. We have accrued our current estimate of probable loss with respect
to these litigations.   

    ERISA Actions   Southern District of New York.       Between June 25, 2008, and November 25, 2008, AIG, certain
directors and officers of AIG, and members of AIG's Retirement Board and Investment Committee were named as defendants in eight purported class action complaints asserting claims on behalf of
participants in certain pension plans sponsored by AIG or its subsidiaries. The Court subsequently consolidated these eight actions as In re American International Group, Inc. ERISA Litigation
II. On September 4, 2012, lead plaintiffs' counsel filed a second consolidated amended complaint. The action purports to be brought as a class action under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), on behalf of all participants in or beneficiaries of certain benefit plans of AIG and its subsidiaries that offered shares of AIG Common Stock. In the second
consolidated amended complaint, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary responsibilities to plan participants and their beneficiaries under ERISA, by
continuing to offer the AIG Stock Fund as an investment option in the plans after it allegedly became imprudent to do so. The alleged ERISA violations relate to, among other things, the defendants'
purported failure to monitor and/or disclose certain matters, including the Subprime Exposure Issues.   

  On
November 20, 2012, defendants filed motions to dismiss the second consolidated amended complaint. On May 24, 2013, the parties informed the Court of a mediation scheduled for
August 21-22, 2013, and requested that the Court defer consideration of defendants' motions pending the outcome of the mediation. On the same day, the Court granted the parties' request,
terminating defendants' motions without prejudice to reinstatement on request following the August mediation, if necessary. On August 26, 2013, the parties informed the Court that the mediation
did not result in a resolution of the action, and defendants requested that the Court reinstate their motions to dismiss. On September 4, 2013, the Court reinstated defendants' motions to
dismiss.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
290  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  As
of February 20, 2014, discovery is ongoing, and the Court has not determined if a class action is appropriate or the size or scope of any class. As a result, we are unable to reasonably
estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

    Canadian Securities Class Action   Ontario Superior Court of Justice.       On November 12, 2008, an application was filed in
the Ontario Superior Court of Justice for leave to bring a purported class action against AIG, AIGFP, certain directors and officers of AIG and Joseph Cassano, the former Chief Executive Officer of
AIGFP, pursuant to the Ontario Securities Act. If the Court grants the application, a class plaintiff will be permitted to file a statement of claim against defendants. The proposed statement
of claim would assert a class period of March 16, 2006 through September 16, 2008 and would allege that during this period defendants made false and misleading statements and omissions
in quarterly and annual reports and during oral presentations in violation of the Ontario Securities Act.   

  On
April 17, 2009, defendants filed a motion record in support of their motion to stay or dismiss for lack of jurisdiction and forum non conveniens. On July 12, 2010, the Court adjourned
a hearing on the motion pending a decision by the Supreme Court of Canada in a pair of actions captioned Club Resorts Ltd. v. Van Breda 2012 SCC 17 (Van Breda). On April 18, 2012, the
Supreme Court of Canada clarified the standard for determining jurisdiction over foreign and out-of-province defendants, such as AIG, by holding that a defendant must have some form of "actual," as
opposed to a merely "virtual," presence to be deemed to be "doing business" in the jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of Canada also suggested that in future cases, defendants may contest jurisdiction
even when they are found to be doing business in a Canadian jurisdiction if their business activities in the jurisdiction are unrelated to the subject matter of the litigation. The matter has been
stayed pending further developments in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation.   

  In
plaintiff's proposed statement of claim, plaintiff alleged general and special damages of $500 million and punitive damages of $50 million plus prejudgment interest or such other sums
as the Court finds appropriate. As of February 20, 2014, the Court has not determined whether it has jurisdiction or granted plaintiff's application to file a statement of claim, no
merits discovery has occurred and the action has been stayed. As a result, we are unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

Starr International Litigation

On
November 21, 2011, Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO) filed a complaint against the United States in the United States Court of Federal Claims (the
Court of Federal Claims), bringing claims, both individually and on behalf of the classes defined below and derivatively on behalf of AIG (the SICO Treasury Action). The complaint challenges the
government's assistance of AIG, pursuant to which AIG entered into a credit facility with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the FRBNY, and such credit facility, the FRBNY Credit Facility) and the
United States received an approximately 80 percent ownership in AIG. The complaint alleges that the interest rate imposed on AIG and the appropriation of approximately 80 percent of
AIG's equity was discriminatory,
unprecedented, and inconsistent with liquidity assistance offered by the government to other comparable firms at the time and violated the Equal Protection, Due Process, and Takings Clauses of the
U.S. Constitution.   

  On
November 21, 2011, SICO also filed a second complaint in the Southern District of New York against the FRBNY bringing claims, both individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated
and derivatively on behalf of AIG (the SICO New York Action). This complaint also challenges the government's assistance of AIG, pursuant to which AIG entered into the FRBNY Credit Facility and the
United States received an approximately 80 percent ownership in AIG. The complaint alleges that the FRBNY owed fiduciary duties to AIG as our controlling shareholder, and that the FRBNY
breached these fiduciary duties by "divert[ing] the rights and assets of AIG and its shareholders to itself and favored third parties" through transactions involving Maiden
Lane III LLC (ML III), an entity controlled by the FRBNY, and by "participating in, and causing AIG's officers and directors to participate in, the evasion of AIG's existing Common Stock
shareholders' right to approve the massive issuance of the new Common Shares required to complete the government's taking of a nearly 80 percent interest in the Common Stock of AIG." SICO also
alleges that the "FRBNY has asserted that in exercising its control over, and acting on behalf of, AIG it did not act in an official, governmental capacity or at the direction of the Department of
Treasury," but that "[t]o the extent the proof at or prior to trial shows that the FRBNY did in fact act in a governmental capacity, or at the direction of the
Department of Treasury, the improper conduct . . . constitutes the discriminatory takings of the property and property rights of AIG without due process or just compensation."   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
291  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  On
January 31, 2012 and February 1, 2012, amended complaints were filed in the Court of Federal Claims and the Southern District of New York, respectively.   

  In
rulings dated July 2, 2012 and September 17, 2012, the Court of Federal Claims largely denied the United States' motion to dismiss in the SICO Treasury Action. Discovery is
proceeding.   

  On
November 19, 2012, the Southern District of New York granted the FRBNY's motion to dismiss the SICO New York Action. On December 21, 2012, SICO filed a notice of appeal in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On January 29, 2014, the Second Circuit affirmed the Southern District of New York's dismissal of the SICO New York Action.   

  In
both of the actions commenced by SICO, the only claims naming AIG as a party (as a nominal defendant) are derivative claims on behalf of AIG. On September 21, 2012, SICO made a
pre-litigation demand on our Board demanding that we pursue the derivative claims in both actions or allow SICO to pursue the claims on our behalf. On January 9, 2013, our Board unanimously
refused SICO's demand in its entirety and on January 23, 2013, counsel for the Board sent a letter to counsel for SICO describing the process by which our Board considered and refused SICO's
demand and stating the reasons for our Board's determination.   

  On
March 11, 2013, SICO filed a second amended complaint in the SICO Treasury Action alleging that its demand was wrongfully refused. On June 26, 2013, the Court of Federal Claims
granted AIG's and the United States' motions
to dismiss SICO's derivative claims in the SICO Treasury Action and denied the United States' motion to dismiss SICO's direct claims.   

  On
March 11, 2013, the Court of Federal Claims in the SICO Treasury Action granted SICO's motion for class certification of two classes with respect to SICO's non-derivative claims:
(1) persons and entities who held shares of AIG Common Stock on or before September 16, 2008 and who owned those shares on September 22, 2008; and (2) persons and entities
who owned shares of AIG Common Stock on June 30, 2009 and were eligible to vote those shares at AIG's June 30, 2009 annual meeting of shareholders. SICO has provided notice of class
certification to potential members of the classes, who, pursuant to a court order issued on April 25, 2013, had to return opt-in consent forms by September 16, 2013 to participate in
either class. On November 15, 2013, SICO informed the Court that 286,892 holders of AIG Common Stock during the two class periods had opted into the classes.   

  While
no longer a party to these actions, AIG understands that SICO is seeking significant damages.   

  The
United States has alleged, as an affirmative defense in its answer, that AIG is obligated to indemnify the FRBNY and its representatives, including the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and the
United States (as the FRBNY's principal), for any recovery in the SICO Treasury Action, and seeks a contingent offset or recoupment for the value of net operating loss benefits the United States
alleges that we received as a result of the government's assistance. On November 8, 2013, the Court denied a motion by SICO to strike the United States' affirmative defenses of indemnification
and contingent offset or recoupment.   

The
FRBNY has also requested indemnification in connection with the SICO New York Action from AIG under the FRBNY Credit Facility and from ML III under the Master Investment and Credit Agreement and
the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of ML III.   

Employment Litigation against AIG and AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation

On
December 9, 2009, AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation's (AIGGRE) former President, Kevin P. Fitzpatrick, several entities he controls, and various other
single purpose entities (the SPEs) filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County against AIG and AIGGRE (the Defendants). The case was removed to the Southern
District of New York, and an amended complaint was filed
on March 8, 2010. The amended complaint asserted that the Defendants violated fiduciary duties to Fitzpatrick and his controlled entities and breached Fitzpatrick's employment agreement and
agreements of SPEs that purportedly entitled him to carried interest arising out of the sale or disposition of certain real estate. Fitzpatrick has also brought derivative claims on behalf of the
SPEs, purporting to allege that the Defendants breached contractual and fiduciary duties in failing to fund the SPEs with various amounts allegedly due under the SPE agreements. Fitzpatrick also
requested injunctive relief, an accounting, and that a receiver be appointed to manage the affairs of the SPEs. He further alleged that the SPEs were subject to a constructive trust. Fitzpatrick also
alleged a violation of ERISA relating to retirement benefits purportedly due. Fitzpatrick claimed that he was owed damages totaling approximately $274 million (inclusive of   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
292  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  interest
as of September 3, 2013). Fitzpatrick also sought a declaratory judgment that he would be entitled to unspecified profit interests whenever AIG sold eight buildings (one of which AIG
contends it never owned and another of which AIG has already sold). In addition, Fitzpatrick claimed punitive damages for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, and he applied to the Court on
August 15, 2013 for attorneys' fees in light of discovery sanctions that the Court ordered against AIG in May.   

  On
November 21, 2013, the parties executed a definitive and final settlement agreement. The matter was dismissed with prejudice effective December 5, 2013. AIG has made or accrued for
payments required under the settlement agreement.   

False Claims Act Complaint

On
February 25, 2010, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California by two individuals (Relators) seeking to
assert claims on behalf of the United States against AIG and certain other defendants, including Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, under the False Claims Act. Relators filed a first amended complaint
on September 30, 2010, adding certain additional defendants, including Bank of America and Soci t  G n rale. The first amended
complaint alleged that defendants engaged in fraudulent business practices in respect of their activities in the over-the-counter market for collateralized debt obligations, and submitted false claims
to the United States in connection with the FRBNY Credit Facility and Maiden Lane II LLC (ML
II) and ML III entities (the Maiden Lane Interests) through, among other things, misrepresenting AIG's ability and intent to repay amounts drawn on the FRBNY Credit Facility, and
misrepresenting the value of the securities that the Maiden Lane Interests acquired from AIG and certain of its counterparties. The first amended complaint sought unspecified damages pursuant to the
False Claims Act in the amount of three times the damages allegedly sustained by the United States as well as interest, attorneys' fees, costs and expenses. The complaint and the first amended
complaint were initially filed and maintained under seal while the United States considered whether to intervene in the action. On or about April 28, 2011, after the United States declined to
intervene, the District Court lifted the seal, and Relators served the first amended complaint on AIG on July 11, 2011. On April 19, 2013, the Court granted AIG's motion to dismiss,
dismissing the first amended complaint in its entirety, without prejudice, giving the Relators the opportunity to file a second amended complaint. On May 24, 2013, the Relators filed a
second amended complaint, which attempted to plead the same claims as the prior complaints and did not specify an amount of alleged damages. AIG and its co-defendants filed motions to dismiss the
second amended complaint on August 9, 2013. As a result of the absence of a statement of damages and the early stage of this litigation, we are unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss
or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

Litigation Matters Relating to AIG's Insurance Operations

Caremark.       AIG and certain of its subsidiaries have been named defendants in two putative class actions in state court in Alabama that arise out of
the 1999 settlement of class and derivative litigation involving Caremark Rx, Inc. (Caremark). The plaintiffs in the second-filed action intervened in the first-filed action, and the
second-filed action was dismissed. An excess policy issued by a subsidiary of AIG with respect to the 1999 litigation was expressly stated to be without limit of liability. In the current actions,
plaintiffs allege that the judge approving the 1999 settlement was misled as to the extent of available insurance coverage and would not have approved the settlement had he known of the existence
and/or unlimited nature of the excess policy. They further allege that AIG, its subsidiaries, and Caremark are liable for fraud and suppression for misrepresenting and/or concealing the nature and
extent of coverage.   

  The
complaints filed by the plaintiffs and the intervenors request compensatory damages for the 1999 class in the amount of $3.2 billion, plus punitive damages. AIG and its subsidiaries deny
the allegations of fraud and suppression, assert that information concerning the excess policy was publicly disclosed months prior to the approval of the settlement, that the claims are barred by the
statute of limitations, and that the statute cannot be tolled in light of the
public disclosure of the excess coverage. The plaintiffs and intervenors, in turn, have asserted that the disclosure was insufficient to inform them of the nature of the coverage and did not start the
running of the statute of limitations.   

  On
August 15, 2012, the trial court entered an order granting plaintiffs' motion for class certification. AIG and the other defendants have appealed that order to the Alabama Supreme Court, and
the case in the trial court will be   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
293  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  stayed
until that appeal is resolved. General discovery has not commenced and AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

Regulatory and Related Matters     

  Our life insurance companies have received and responded to industry-wide regulatory inquiries, including a multi-state audit and market conduct
examination covering compliance with unclaimed property laws and a directive from the New York Insurance Department regarding claims settlement practices and other related state regulatory inquiries.
The inquiries concern the use of the Social Security Death Master File (SSDMF) to identify potential claims not yet presented to us in the normal course of business. In connection with the resolution
of the multi-state examination relating to these matters in the third quarter of 2012, we paid an $11 million regulatory assessment to the various state insurance departments that are parties
to the regulatory settlement to defray costs of their examinations and monitoring. Although we have enhanced our claims practices to include use of the SSDMF, it is possible that the settlement
remediation requirements, remaining inquiries, other regulatory activity or litigation could result in the payment of additional amounts. AIG has also received a demand letter from a purported AIG
shareholder requesting that the Board of Directors investigate these matters, and bring appropriate legal proceedings against any person identified by the investigation as engaging in misconduct. On
January 8, 2014, the independent members of our Board unanimously refused the demand in its entirety, and on February 19, 2014, counsel for the Board sent a letter to counsel for the
purported AIG shareholder describing the process by which our Board considered and refused its demand. AIG believes it has adequately reserved for such claims, but there can be no assurance that the
ultimate cost will not vary, perhaps materially, from its estimate.   

  In
connection with the previously disclosed multi-state examination of certain accident and health products, including travel products, issued by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh,
Pa. (National Union), Chartis Inc., on behalf of itself, National Union, and certain of Chartis Inc.'s insurance and non-insurance companies (collectively, the Chartis parties) entered
into a Regulatory Settlement Agreement with regulators from 50 U.S. jurisdictions effective November 29, 2012. Under the agreement, and without admitting any liability for the issues raised in
the examination, the Chartis parties (i) paid a civil penalty of $50 million, (ii) entered into a corrective action plan describing agreed-upon specific steps and standards for
evaluating the Chartis parties' ongoing compliance with laws and regulations governing the issues identified in the examination, and (iii) agreed to pay a contingent fine in the event that the
Chartis parties fail to satisfy certain terms of the corrective action plan. National Union and other AIG companies are also currently subject to civil litigation relating to the conduct of their
accident and health business, and may be subject to additional litigation relating to the conduct of such business from time to time in the ordinary course. There
can be no assurance that any regulatory action resulting from the issues identified will not have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations of the business subject to the agreement, or on
similar business written by other AIG carriers.   

  Industry-wide
examinations conducted by the Minnesota Department of Insurance and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on captive reinsurance practices by lenders and mortgage
insurance companies, including UGC, have been ongoing for several years. In 2011, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) assumed responsibility for violations of the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act from HUD, and assumed HUD's aforementioned ongoing investigation. In June 2012, the CFPB issued a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) to UGC and other mortgage insurance companies,
requesting the production of documents and answers to written questions. The CFPB agreed to toll the deadlines associated with the CID pending discussions that could resolve the investigation. UGC and
the CFPB reached a settlement, entered on April 8, 2013 by the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, where UGC consented to discontinue its remaining captive
reinsurance practices and to pay a civil monetary penalty of $4.5 million to the CFPB. The settlement includes a release for all liability related to UGC's captive reinsurance practices and
resolves the CFPB's investigation. UGC has received a proposed consent order from the Minnesota Commissioner of Commerce (the MN Commissioner) which alleges that UGC violated the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and other state and federal laws in connection with its practices with captive reinsurance companies owned by lenders. UGC is engaged in
discussions with the MN Commissioner with respect to the terms of the proposed consent order. UGC cannot predict if or when a consent order may be entered into or, if entered into, what the terms of
the final consent order will be. UGC is also currently subject to civil litigation relating to its placement of reinsurance with captives owned by lenders, and may be subject to additional litigation
relating to the conduct of such business from time to time in the ordinary course.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
294  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  AIG
is responding to requests for information and documents by the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS), the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, and other governmental authorities
relating to AIG's formerly wholly owned subsidiaries, ALICO and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (DelAm), and other related business units, which were sold by AIG to MetLife in November 2010.
The inquiries relate to whether ALICO, DelAm and their representatives conducted insurance business in New York over an extended period of time without a license, and whether certain representations
by ALICO concerning its activities in New York were accurate. See Guarantees   Asset Dispositions   ALICO Sale below.   

Other Contingencies

Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense

Although
we regularly review the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there can be no assurance that our loss reserves will
not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process, particularly for
long-tail casualty lines of business, which include, but are not limited to, general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis
management coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, directors and
officers and products liability. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development
patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording
of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. There is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss
development factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in global economic conditions, changes
in the legal, regulatory,
judicial and social environment, changes in medical cost trends (inflation, intensity and utilization of medical services), underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims handling
practices.   

Commitments

We
occupy leased space in many locations under various long-term leases and have entered into various leases covering the long-term use of data processing equipment.   

The following table presents the future minimum lease payments under operating leases:   

Rent expense was $414 million, $445 million and $482 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
These amounts include $15 million, $16 million and $13 million attributable to businesses held for sale for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The year ended December 31, 2011 includes $24 million for discontinued operations.   

Flight Equipment Related to Business Held for Sale

At
December 31, 2013, ILFC had committed to purchase 335 new aircraft with aggregate estimated total remaining payments of approximately $21.7 billion, which
includes 12 aircraft through sale-leaseback transactions with airlines, deliverable from 2014 through 2022. ILFC had also committed to purchase one used aircraft and nine new spare engines. ILFC will
be required to find lessees for any aircraft acquired and to arrange financing for a substantial   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
295  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

  portion
of the purchase price. These commitments are related to businesses held for sale. See Note 4 for a discussion of the ILFC transaction.   

The following table presents the minimum future rental income on noncancelable operating leases of flight equipment that has been delivered:   

Flight equipment is leased under operating leases with remaining terms ranging from one to thirteen years.   

Other Commitments

In
the normal course of business, we enter into commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equity funds and hedge funds and to purchase and develop real estate
in the U.S. and abroad. These commitments totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 2013.   

Guarantees

Subsidiaries

We
have issued unconditional guarantees with respect to the prompt payment, when due, of all present and future payment obligations and liabilities of AIG Financial Products
Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP) and of AIG Markets, Inc. (AIG Markets) arising from transactions entered into by AIG Markets.   

  In
connection with AIGFP's business activities, AIGFP has issued, in a limited number of transactions, standby letters of credit or similar facilities to equity investors in an amount equal to the
termination value owing to the equity investor by the lessee in the event of a lessee default (the equity termination value). The total amount outstanding at December 31, 2013 was
$240 million. In those transactions, AIGFP has agreed to pay such amount if the lessee fails to pay. The amount payable by AIGFP is, in certain cases, partially offset by amounts payable under
other instruments typically equal to the present value of scheduled payments to be made by AIGFP. In the event that AIGFP is required to make a payment to the equity investor, the lessee is
unconditionally obligated to reimburse AIGFP. To the extent that the equity investor is paid the equity termination value from the standby letter of credit and/or other sources, including payments by
the lessee, AIGFP takes an assignment of the equity investor's rights under the lease of the underlying property. Because the obligations of the lessee under the lease transactions are generally
economically defeased, lessee bankruptcy is the most likely circumstance in which AIGFP would be required to pay without reimbursement.   

Asset Dispositions

General

We
are subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with the completed sales of businesses pursuant to our asset disposition plan. The various
arrangements may be triggered by, among other things, declines in asset values, the occurrence of specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent liabilities, developments in
litigation or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These arrangements are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law,
such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or are not applicable.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
296  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 15. CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES    

We
are unable to develop a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential payout under certain of these arrangements. Overall, we believe that it is unlikely we will have to make any material payments
related to completed sales under these arrangements, and no material liabilities related to these arrangements have been recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 4 herein for
additional information on sales of businesses and asset dispositions.   

ALICO Sale

Pursuant
to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement, we agreed to provide MetLife with certain indemnities. The most significant remaining indemnities include
indemnifications related to specific product, investment, litigation and other matters that are excluded from the general representations and warranties indemnity. These indemnifications provide for
various deductible amounts, which in certain cases are zero, and maximum exposures, which in certain cases are unlimited, and may extend for various periods after the completion of the sale.   

In
connection with the indemnity obligations described above, approximately $19 million of proceeds from the sale of ALICO remained in escrow as of December 31, 2013.   

Other

See Note 10 for commitments and guarantees associated with VIEs.   
           See Note 11 for disclosures about derivatives.   
           See Note 26 for additional disclosures about guarantees of outstanding debt.    

16. EQUITY

Shares Outstanding

The following table presents a rollforward of outstanding shares:     

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
297  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 16. EQUITY    

Preferred Stock and Recapitalization

On
January 14, 2011, we completed the Recapitalization in which the Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share
(the Series C Preferred Stock), Series E Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series E Preferred Stock) and the Series F
Preferred Stock were exchanged for AIG Common Stock and the Series G Cumulative Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series G Preferred Stock) was
issued. In connection with the Recapitalization, we repaid all amounts outstanding under the FRBNY Credit Facility. In connection with the May 2011 AIG Common Stock Offering (described below under AIG
Common Stock Offerings by the Department of the Treasury and AIG Purchases of AIG Common Stock in 2012), the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled.   

The following table presents the principal Consolidated Balance Sheet line items affected by the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, further described in
Note 24 herein:     

(a)  Repayment
and Termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility   Funds held in escrow and included in Other assets from the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale were used to repay
the FRBNY Credit Facility. The adjustments to Other assets and Accumulated deficit reflects the write-off of the unamortized portion of the net prepaid commitment fee asset.   

  (b)  Repurchase
and Exchange of SPV Preferred Interests   We used remaining net cash proceeds from the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale to pay down a portion of the
liquidation preference on the SPV Preferred Interests held by the FRBNY and drew down approximately $20.3 billion under the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F) to repurchase
the FRBNY's remaining SPV Preferred Interests, which we then transferred to the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the Series F Preferred Stock.   

  (c)  Exchange
of our Series C, E and F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock. The adjustments represent the exchange of Series C Preferred Stock, Series E Preferred
Stock, and Series F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock. As a result of the Recapitalization, the Department of the Treasury acquired 1,655,037,962 shares of newly issued AIG Common Stock.   

(d)  In
connection with the May 2011 AIG Common Stock offering and sale, the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
298  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 16. EQUITY    

   The following table presents a rollforward of preferred stock:     

Dividends and Repurchase of AIG Common Stock

Payment
of future dividends to our shareholders and repurchases of AIG Common Stock depends in part on the regulatory framework that we are currently subject to and that
will ultimately be applicable to us, including as a savings and loan holding company, a systemically important financial institution under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(Dodd-Frank) and a global systemically important insurer. In addition, dividends are payable on AIG Common Stock only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors in its discretion, from funds
legally available therefor. In considering whether to pay a dividend or purchase shares of AIG Common Stock, our Board of Directors considers such matters as the performance of our businesses, our
consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, available capital, the existence of investment opportunities, contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of
dividends by our subsidiaries, rating agency considerations, including the potential effect on our debt ratings, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant.   

  AIG
paid a dividend of $0.10 per share on AIG Common Stock on each of September 26, 2013 and December 19, 2013.   

  On
August 1, 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock, with an aggregate purchase price of up to $1.0 billion, from time to time in the open
market, private purchases, through forward, derivative, accelerated repurchase or automatic repurchase transactions or otherwise. The timing of such repurchases will depend on market conditions, our
financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and other factors. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we repurchased approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $597 million pursuant to this authorization.   

Share Issuances and Purchases

AIG Common Stock Offerings by the Department of the Treasury and AIG Purchases of AIG Common Stock in 2012

Through
registered public offerings, the Department of the Treasury has disposed of all of its ownership of AIG Common Stock as of December 31, 2012, from ownership
of approximately 92 percent (1.7 billion shares) prior to the completion of the first registered public offering initiated by the Department of the Treasury as selling shareholder in May
2011. During 2012, the Department of the Treasury, as selling shareholder, completed registered public offerings of AIG Common Stock on March 13 (the March Offering), May 10 (the May
Offering), August 8 (the August Offering), September 14 (the September Offering) and December 14 (the December Offering). We participated as a purchaser in the first four 2012
offerings. Each of these purchases was authorized by our Board of Directors.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
299  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 16. EQUITY    

   The following table presents certain information relating to these offerings:     

*   Shares
purchased by us in each of the 2012 offerings were purchased pursuant to AIG Board of Directors authorization. In connection with the May 2011 Offering, AIG issued
and sold 100 million shares of AIG Common Stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion.   

AIG Common Stock Purchases in 2011

In
November 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of shares of AIG Common Stock, with an aggregate purchase amount of up to $1 billion from time to
time in the open market, through derivative or automatic purchase contracts or otherwise. This authorization replaced all prior AIG Common Stock purchase authorizations. We purchased a total of
3,074,031 shares of AIG Common Stock for approximately $70 million in 2011.   

Equity Units

In
2011, we remarketed the three series of debentures (the Series B-1, B-2 and B-3 junior subordinated debentures) included in the Equity Units. The Equity Units also
included a stock purchase contract obligating the holder of an Equity Unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to sell, a variable number of shares of AIG Common Stock for $25 per share in cash. We
purchased and retired all of the Series B-1, B-2 and B-3 junior subordinated debentures representing $2.2 billion in aggregate principal and as of December 31, 2011, we had issued
approximately 1.8 billion shares of AIG Common Stock in connection with the settlement of the stock purchase contracts underlying the Equity Units.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
300  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 16. EQUITY    

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

The following table presents a rollforward of Accumulated other comprehensive income:   

*     The
adjustment to policyholder benefit reserves assumes that the unrealized appreciation on available for sale securities is actually realized and that the proceeds are reinvested at
lower yields.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
301  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 16. EQUITY    

   The following table presents the other comprehensive income (loss) reclassification adjustments for the years ended December 31,
2013, 2012 and 2011:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
302  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 16. EQUITY    

The following table presents the effect of the reclassification of significant items out of Accumulated other comprehensive income on
the respective line items in the Consolidated Statements of Income:   

Amount Reclassified 
from Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive Income  

(in millions)    

Year Ended 
December 31, 2013   

Affected Line Item in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income   

Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity investments on which other-than-temporary credit impairments were recognized   

Investments  

$   
   91   
     
  Other realized capital gains  

Total  

91   

Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of all other investments   

Investments  

2,452   
     
  Other realized capital gains  

Deferred acquisition costs adjustment  

(28   

)   
  Amortization of deferred acquisition costs  

Future policy benefits  

(1,569   

)   
  Policyholder benefits and claims incurred  

Total  

855   

Change in retirement plan liabilities adjustment   

Prior-service costs  

47   
     
   *   

Actuarial gains/(losses)  

(157   

)   
   *   

Total  

(110   

)   

Deferred tax asset (liability)  

Total reclassifications for the period  

$   
   836   

*     These
Accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
303  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 17. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS    

17. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

The following table presents a rollforward of noncontrolling interests:   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
304  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 17. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS    

Redeemable noncontrolling interest

Nonvoting, callable, junior preferred interests held by the Department of Treasury    represented preferred interests in the AIA
SPV and ALICO SPV. In connection with the execution of our orderly asset disposition plan, as well as the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility, we transferred two of our wholly-owned businesses, AIA
and ALICO, to two newly created SPVs in exchange for all the common and preferred interests (the
SPV Preferred Interests) of those SPVs. On December 1, 2009, AIG transferred the SPV Preferred Interests to the FRBNY in consideration for a $25 billion reduction of the outstanding loan
balance and of the maximum amount of credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility and amended the terms of the FRBNY Credit Facility. As part of the closing of the Recapitalization, the remaining
SPV Preferred Interests, with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $20.3 billion at January 14, 2011, were purchased from the FRBNY by AIG and transferred to the
Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of Series F Preferred Stock.   

  The
common interests, which we retained, entitled us to 100 percent of the voting power of the SPVs. The voting power allowed us to elect the boards of managers of the SPVs, who oversaw the
management and operation of the SPVs. Primarily due to the substantive participation rights of the SPV Preferred Interests, the SPVs were determined to be VIEs. As the primary beneficiary of the SPVs,
we consolidated the SPVs.   

  As
a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the SPV Preferred Interests held by the Department of the Treasury were no longer considered permanent equity on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets, and were classified as redeemable noncontrolling interests. As part of the Recapitalization, we used approximately $6.1 billion of the cash proceeds from the sale
of ALICO to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests. The liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests was further reduced by approximately
$12.4 billion using proceeds from the sale of AIG Star, AIG Edison, Nan Shan, and MetLife securities received in the sale of ALICO. During the first quarter of 2011, the remaining liquidation
preference of the ALICO SPV Preferred Interests was paid in full.   

  The
SPV Preferred Interests were measured at fair value on their issuance date. The SPV Preferred Interests initially had a liquidation preference of $25 billion and had a preferred return of
five percent per year compounded quarterly through September 22, 2013 and nine percent thereafter. The preferred return is reflected in Net income from continuing operations attributable to
noncontrolling interests   Nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The difference between the SPV Preferred Interests'
fair value and the initial liquidation preference was amortized and included in Net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests   Nonvoting, callable,
junior and senior preferred interests.   

  During
the first quarter of 2012, the liquidation preference of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests was paid down in full.   

Non-redeemable noncontrolling interests

Non-redeemable noncontrolling interests    include the equity interests of third-party shareholders in our consolidated
subsidiaries and includes the preferred shareholders' equity in outstanding preferred stock of ILFC, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is held for sale at December 31, 2013 and 2012. The preferred
stock in ILFC consists of 1,000 shares of market auction preferred stock (MAPS) in two series (Series A and B) of 500 shares each. Each of the MAPS shares has a liquidation value of
$100,000 per share and is not convertible. Dividends on the MAPS are accounted for as a reduction of the noncontrolling interest. The dividend rate, other than the initial rate, for each dividend
period for each series is reset approximately every seven weeks (49 days) on the basis of orders placed in an auction, provided such auctions are able to occur. At December 31, 2013,
there is no ability to conduct such auctions; therefore, the MAPS certificate of determination dictates that a maximum applicable rate, as defined in the certificate of determination, be paid on the
MAPS. At December 31, 2013, the dividend rate for each of the Series A and Series B MAPS was 0.50 percent and 0.36 percent respectively.   

For
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Noncontrolling interests balance declined by $56 million and $188 million, respectively, primarily caused by distributions to
noncontrolling interest and, in 2012, an adjustment for the reclassification of noncontrolling interest from permanent to temporary and acquisitions of noncontrolling interests. In 2011, the decline
in noncontrolling interest balance was primarily due to the acquisition of Fuji's noncontrolling interest.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
305  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 18. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)    

18. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)

The
basic EPS computation is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits. The diluted EPS
computation is based on those shares used in the basic EPS computation plus shares that would have been outstanding assuming issuance of common shares for all dilutive potential common shares
outstanding and adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits.   

  In
connection with the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, we applied the two-class method for calculating EPS. The two-class method is an earnings allocation method for computing EPS
when a company's capital structure includes either two or more classes of common stock or common stock and participating securities. This method determines EPS based on dividends declared on common
stock and participating securities (i.e., distributed earnings), as well as participation rights of participating securities in any undistributed earnings. The Series C Preferred Stock
was retired as part of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011. Subsequent to January 14, 2011, we have not had any outstanding participating securities that would subject us to the
two-class method.   

   The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted EPS:   

*     Dilutive
shares are calculated using the treasury stock method and include dilutive shares from share-based employee compensation plans, a weighted average portion of the warrants
issued to AIG shareholders as part of the recapitalization in January 2011 and a weighted average portion of the warrants issued to the Department of the Treasury in 2009 that we repurchased in the
first quarter of 2013. The number of shares excluded from diluted shares outstanding were 38 million, 78 million and 76 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012
and 2011, respectively, because the effect of including those shares in the calculation would have been anti-dilutive.   

Deemed dividends resulted from the Recapitalization and represent the excess of:  

the fair value of the consideration transferred to the Department of the Treasury, which consisted of 1,092,169,866 shares
of AIG Common Stock, $20.2 billion of AIA SPV Preferred Interests and ALICO SPV Preferred Interests, and a liability for a commitment by us to pay the Department of the Treasury's costs to
dispose of all of its shares, over   
           the carrying value of the Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
306  

ITEM 8 / NOTE 19. STATUTORY FINANCIAL DATA AND RESTRICTIONS    

19. STATUTORY FINANCIAL DATA AND RESTRICTIONS

The following table presents statutory capital and surplus and net income for our AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement operations in
accordance with statutory accounting practices:   

(a)  Excludes
discontinued operations and other divested businesses. Statutory capital and surplus and net income with respect to foreign operations are as of November 30.   

  (b)  The
2013 amounts are subject to change based on final statutory filings. The 2012 Property Casualty statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus amounts increased by
$937 million and $2.1 billion, respectively, compared to the amounts previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, due to
finalization of statutory filings.   

  (c)  Property
Casualty includes approximately $8.0 billion and $3.0 billion of recognized statutory gains related to legal entity simplification (restructuring) in 2013 and
2012, respectively. These recognized gains were largely offset by reductions in unrealized gains; therefore, there was no material impact to total surplus.   

Our insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign
insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are that
statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, investment impairments are determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices,
assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are generally valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non-admitted.   

  At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate minimum required statutory capital and surplus of our domestic AIG Property Casualty insurance subsidiaries was approximately $5.4 billion
and $5.8 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate minimum required statutory (or equivalent) capital and surplus of our foreign AIG Property Casualty foreign
insurance subsidiaries was approximately $8.8 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively. Capital and surplus requirements of our foreign subsidiaries differ from those prescribed in the
U.S., and can vary significantly by jurisdiction. At both December 31, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate minimum required statutory capital and surplus of our AIG Life and Retirement insurance
subsidiaries was approximately $4.3 billion. For domestic
insurance subsidiaries, minimum required statutory capital and surplus is based on the greater of the RBC level that would trigger regulatory action or minimum requirements per state insurance
regulation. At both December 31, 2013 and 2012, all domestic and foreign insurance subsidiaries individually exceeded the minimum required statutory capital and surplus requirements and all
domestic insurance subsidiaries individually exceeded RBC minimum required levels.   

  At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, the use of prescribed or permitted statutory accounting practices by our AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries did not result
in reported statutory surplus or risk-based capital that is significantly different from the statutory surplus or risk-based capital that would have been reported had National Association of Insurance
Commissioners' statutory accounting practices or the prescribed regulatory accounting practices of their respective foreign regulatory authority been followed in all respects for domestic and foreign
insurance entities. As described further in Note 12, our domestic Property Casualty insurance subsidiaries domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania discount non tabular workers' compensation
reserves based on the prescribed or approved regulations in each of those states. While these practices differ from applicable National Association of Insurance Commissioners' statutory accounting
practices, such practices do not have a material impact on AIG Property Casualty's statutory surplus and statutory net income or risk based capital.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
307  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 19. STATUTORY FINANCIAL DATA AND RESTRICTIONS    

  The NAIC Model Regulation "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies" (Regulation XXX) requires U.S. life insurers to establish additional statutory reserves
for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). In addition, NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX)
clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to these guarantees, including certain ULSGs.   

  On
September 11, 2013, the NYDFS announced it would no longer implement a modified principles-based reserving approach for certain in-force ULSGs, which had been developed by a Joint Working
Group of the NAIC. As a result, New York-licensed insurers are required to record additional reserves on a statutory basis for ULSG products issued between July 1, 2005 and December 31,
2012. The decision from the NYDFS does not affect reserves for products issued on or after January 1, 2013. AIG Life and Retirement does not currently offer individual level term life insurance
or ULSGs in the state of New York. AIG Life and Retirement recorded approximately $200 million of additional reserves on a statutory basis at December 31, 2013 to fully comply with the
NYDFS decision. Our AIG Life and Retirement insurance subsidiaries, including our New York-domiciled insurance subsidiary, continue to maintain capital well in excess of regulatory minimum required
capital and surplus levels. In 2013, our AIG Life and Retirement New York-domiciled insurance subsidiary paid dividends totaling $404 million, which were ultimately distributed to AIG Parent.   

  AIG
Life and Retirement manages the capital impact on its life insurers of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX through intercompany reinsurance transactions.
The affiliated life insurers providing reinsurance capacity to AIG Life and Retirement are fully licensed insurance companies and are not formed under captive insurance laws. Under one of these
intercompany reinsurance arrangements, certain Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves related to new and in-force business are ceded to an affiliated U.S. life insurer, which is a licensed
life insurer in the state of Missouri and an accredited reinsurer in the state of Texas. As an accredited reinsurer, this affiliated life insurer is not required to post any collateral such as letters
of credit or assets in trust.   

  Under
the other intercompany reinsurance arrangement, certain Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves related to a closed block of in-force business are ceded to an affiliated off-shore life
insurer, which is licensed as a class E insurer under Bermuda law. Bermuda law permits the off-shore life insurer to record an asset that effectively reduces the statutory reserves for the
assumed reinsurance to the level that would be required under U.S. GAAP. Letters of credit are used to support the credit for reinsurance provided by the affiliated off-shore life insurer. The
letters of credit are subject to reimbursement by AIG Parent in the event of a drawdown. See Note 8 for additional information regarding these letters of credit.   

Subsidiary Dividend Restrictions

Payments
of dividends to us by our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to our domestic insurance
subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. For example, unless permitted by the
Superintendent of Financial Services, property casualty companies domiciled in New York generally may not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any 12-month period, exceed the lesser of
10 percent of such company's statutory policyholders' surplus or 100 percent of its "adjusted net investment income," for the previous year, as defined. Generally, less severe
restrictions applicable to both property casualty and life insurance companies exist in most of the other states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an
insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions may restrict the
ability of our foreign insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Various other regulatory restrictions also limit cash loans and advances to us by our subsidiaries.   

Largely
as a result of these restrictions, approximately $47.6 billion of the statutory capital and surplus of our consolidated insurance subsidiaries were restricted from transfer to AIG
Parent without prior approval of state insurance regulators at December 31, 2013.   

  To
our knowledge, no AIG insurance company is currently on any regulatory or similar "watch list" with regard to solvency.   

Parent Company Dividend Restrictions

Our
ability to pay dividends has not been subject to any contractual restrictions since the cancellation of our Series G Preferred Stock in May 2011. See
Note 16 herein for additional information about our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
308  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 20. SHARE-BASED AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS    

20. SHARE-BASED AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS

The following table presents our share-based compensation expense:     

*   For
the year ended December 31, 2013, $315 million of pre-tax compensation expense and substantially all of prior years' compensation expense were attributed
to unsettled liability-classified awards, the values of which are based on our share price at the reporting date. Our share price was $51.05, $35.30 and $23.20 at December 31, 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively, and is the primary driver of the volatility in share-based compensation expense.   

Employee Plans

During
2013, our employees were issued awards under the AIG 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2010 Plan), and the AIG 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan (2013 Plan). The 2013
Plan replaced the 2010 Plan as of May 15, 2013, but does not affect the terms or conditions of any award issued under the 2010 Plan, and is currently the only plan under which share-based
awards can be made.   

  As
of December 31, 2013, the Starr International Company, Inc. Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans (the SICO Plans) are the only legacy plans for which awards remain
unvested.   

  Our
share-settled awards are settled with newly-issued shares of AIG Common Stock. Share awards made by SICO are settled by SICO.   

AIG 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan

The
2013 Plan was adopted at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and provides for the grants of share-based awards to our employees and non-employee directors. The total
number of shares that may be granted under the 2013 Plan (the reserve) is the sum of 1) 45 million shares of AIG Common Stock, plus 2) the number of authorized shares that
remained available for issuance under the 2010 Plan when the 2013 Plan became effective, plus 3) the number of shares of AIG Common Stock relating to outstanding awards under the 2010 Plan at
the time the 2013 Plan became effective that subsequently are forfeited, expired, terminated or otherwise lapse or are settled in cash. Each share-based unit granted under the 2013 Plan reduces the
number of shares available for future grants by one share. However, shares with respect to awards that are forfeited, expired or settled for cash, and shares withheld for taxes on awards (other than
options and stock appreciation rights (SARs) awards) are returned to the reserve. During 2013, performance share units (PSUs) and deferred stock units (DSUs) were granted under the 2013 Plan and
55,618,617 shares are available for future grants as of December 31, 2013. PSUs were issued for off cycle grants, which are made from time to time during the year as sign-on awards to new hires
or as a result of a change in employee status.   

AIG 2010 Stock Incentive Plan

The
2010 Plan was adopted at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The total number of shares of AIG Common Stock that could be granted under the 2010 Plan was
60 million. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we granted PSUs, DSUs, restricted stock units (RSUs), restricted stock and SARs under the 2010 Plan. Each PSU, DSU, RSU, SAR and restricted stock awarded
reduced the number of shares available for future
grants by one share. Subsequent to the adoption of the 2013 Plan in May 2013, no additional grants were made under the 2010 Plan.   

Share-settled Awards     

AIG 2013 Long Term Incentive Plan

The
2013 Long Term Incentive Plan (2013 LTIP), adopted in March 2013, provides for the grant of performance share units to certain employees, including our senior executive
officers and other highly compensated employees. Each recipient of an award is granted a number of PSUs (the target) that provides the opportunity to earn shares of   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
309  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 20. SHARE-BASED AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS    

AIG
Common Stock based on AIG achieving specified performance measures at the end of the three-year performance period. These performance measures are based on AIG's total shareholder return (TSR) and
growth in tangible book value per share (TBVPS) (excluding Accumulated other comprehensive income) relative to a specified peer group, and are weighted at 50 percent each. The actual number of
PSUs earned can vary from zero to 150 percent of the target depending on AIG's performance relative to the peer group. Vesting occurs in three equal installments beginning on January 1
of the year immediately following the end of the performance period and January 1 of each of the next two years, resulting in a graded vesting schedule of up to five years. Dividends do not
accrue on awards until the shares are delivered. Recipients must be employed at each vesting date to be entitled to share delivery, except upon the occurrence of an accelerated vesting event, such as
an involuntary termination without cause, disability, retirement or retirement eligibility during the vesting period. Awards made under the 2013
LTIP prior to May 2013 were issued under the 2010 Plan; awards made subsequently were issued under the 2013 Plan.   

SICO Plans

The
SICO Plans provide that shares of AIG Common Stock currently held by SICO are set aside for the benefit of the participant and distributed upon retirement. The SICO
Board of Directors currently may permit an early payout of shares under certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not entitled to vote, dispose of or receive dividends with respect to
such shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain conditions, including but not limited to the participant's termination of employment with us prior to normal retirement age. A
significant portion of the awards under the SICO Plans vest the year after the participant reaches age 65, provided that the participant remains employed by us through age 65. The portion of the
awards for which early payout is available vests on the applicable payout date.   

  SICO
Plan awards issued in the form of restricted stock were valued based on the closing price of AIG's Common Stock on the grant date. Although none of the costs of the various benefits provided
under the SICO Plans have been paid by us, we have recorded compensation expense for the deferred compensation amounts payable to our employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount credited to
Additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts deemed contributed by SICO.   

Non-Employee Plans     

  Our non-employee directors, who serve on AIG's Board of Directors, receive share-based compensation in the form of deferred stock units (DSUs) with
delivery deferred until retirement from the Board. In 2013, we granted to non-employee directors 25,735 DSUs under the 2013 Plan, and in 2012 and 2011, we granted 19,434 and 21,203 DSUs, respectively,
under the 2010 Plan.   

Performance Share Unit Valuation     

  The fair value of a PSU that will be earned based on AIG's achieving growth in TBVPS relative to a specified peer group was based on the closing
price of AIG Common Stock on the grant date; off cycle grants issued after August 1, 2013 were discounted because PSUs are not entitled to dividends during the vesting periods. The fair value
of a PSU that will be earned based on AIG's TSR relative to a specified peer group was determined on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation.   

   The following table presents the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of PSUs based on AIG's TSR:     

(a)  The
dividend yield is the projected annualized AIG dividend yield estimated by Bloomberg Professional service as of the valuation date.   

  (b)  The
expected volatility is equal to the interpolated value between the implied volatilities of actively traded stock options with maturities that are closest to the PSU term to
maturity.   

  (c)  The
risk-free interest rate is the continuously compounded interest rate for the term between the valuation date and maturity date that is assumed to be constant and equal to the
interpolated value between the closest data points on the U.S. dollar LIBOR-swap curve as of the valuation date.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
310  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 20. SHARE-BASED AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS    

   The following table summarizes outstanding share-settled awards * :     

*   Excludes
DSUs and options, which are discussed under the Non-Employee Plans and Stock Options sections, respectively.   

The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) for the unvested PSUs and unvested restricted stock were $121 million and
$30 million, respectively, and the weighted-average and expected period of years over which those costs are expected to be recognized are 1.38 years and 4 years for the PSUs, and
5.17 years and 26 years for the restricted stock, respectively.   

Stock Options

Options
granted under the AIG 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 1999 Stock Option Plan generally vested over four years (25 percent vesting per year) and expire
10 years from the date of grant. All outstanding options are vested and out of the money at December 31, 2013. There were no stock options granted since 2008 and no shares were issued in
2013 in connection with previous exercises of options with delivery deferred until 2013. The aggregate intrinsic value for all unexercised options is zero.   

The following table provides a roll forward of stock option activity:     

Cash-settled Awards

During
the period we were subject to Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) restrictions (under the purview of the Special Master), we issued various cash-settled share-based
grants, including RSUs, linked to AIG Common Stock, to certain of our most highly compensated employees and executive officers. After the repayment of our TARP obligations in December 2012, we no
longer issue awards under these plans.   

  Share-based
cash-settled awards are recorded as liabilities until the final payout is made or the award is replaced with a stock-settled award. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting
periods, unless the award is fully vested on the grant date in which case the entire award value is immediately recognized as expense.   

  Unlike
stock-settled awards, which generally have a fixed grant-date fair value (unless the award is subsequently modified), the fair value of unsettled or unvested cash-settled awards is remeasured
at the end of each reporting period based on the change in fair value of one share of AIG Common Stock. The liability and corresponding expense are adjusted accordingly until the award is settled.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
311  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 20. SHARE-BASED AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS    

Restricted Stock Units   

Stock Salary Awards

In
2009, we established a program of regular grants of vested stock or units that is generally referred to as "Stock Salary." Stock Salary is determined as a dollar amount
through the date that salary is earned and accrued at the same time or times as the salary would otherwise be paid in cash. Stock Salary was granted to any individual qualifying as a senior executive
officer or one of our next twenty most highly compensated employees (the Top 25). Stock Salary for a Top 25 employee (other than our CEO) is settled in three equal installments on the first, second
and third anniversary of grant. Stock Salary was also granted to individuals qualifying as an executive officer or one of our next 75 most highly compensated employees (Top 26-100), and is generally
settled on either the first or third anniversary of grant in accordance with the terms of an employee's award. Stock Salary grants were generally issued in the form of immediately vested RSUs, and the
number of units awarded was based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the grant date.   

  RSUs
are settled in cash based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the applicable settlement date. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we paid $180 million, $111 million and $35 million,
respectively, to settle awards. For those awards that were vested and unsettled at the end of each year, we recognized charges of $73 million and $173 million in compensation expense for
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, to reflect fluctuations in the value of AIG Common Stock. At December 31, 2013, the number of vested but unsettled RSUs totaled
2,433,501.   

TARP RSUs

TARP
RSUs awarded require the achievement of objective performance metrics as a condition to entitlement. When vested and transferable, an award would be settled in
25 percent installments in proportion to the settlement of our TARP obligations. Prior to December 2011, TARP RSUs granted to the Top 25 (other than our CEO) vested on the third anniversary of
grant, while TARP RSUs granted to the Top 26-100 vested on the second anniversary of grant and are subject to transferability restrictions for an additional year after vesting. TARP RSUs granted
December 2011 and thereafter vest in two 50 percent installments on the second and third anniversary of the date of grant. With the repayment of our TARP obligations in December 2012,
100 percent of outstanding TARP RSUs will vest when the service requirements are satisfied.   

Other RSUs

Fully-vested
performance-based RSUs were issued to certain employees in the Top 26-100 in March 2011. The RSUs will be cash-settled three years after the date of issuance
based on the value of AIG Common Stock on each settlement date. For the vested and unsettled awards at year-end, we recognized charges of $3 million, $2 million, and a reduction of
$2 million in compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, respectively, to reflect fluctuations in the value of AIG Common Stock.   

During
2013 and 2012, cash-settled performance-based RSUs granted and issued in March 2013 and 2012 to certain highly compensated employees will vest in two 50 percent installments on the
second and third anniversary of the date of grant.   

Long Term Incentive Plans

Certain
employees were offered the opportunity to receive additional compensation in the form of cash and cash-settled SARs for the 2009, 2010 and 2011 LTIP or
100 percent cash for the 2012 LTIP if certain performance measures were met. The ultimate value of these awards was contingent on AIG achieving performance measures over a two-year performance
period and such value could range from zero to twice the target amount. Subsequent to the performance period, the earned awards are subject to an additional time-vesting period. This results in a
graded vesting schedule for the cash portion of up to two years, while the SARs portion cliff-vests two years after the performance period ends.   

  The
cash portion of the awards expensed in 2013, 2012 and 2011 totaled approximately $249 million, $189 million, and $199 million, respectively.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
312  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 20. SHARE-BASED AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS    

The following table presents a roll forward of SARs and cash-settled RSUs (excluding stock salary) as well as the related expenses:     

(a)  Represents
additional SARs earned as a result of the completion of the performance period for the 2011 LTIP.   

  (b)  Also
includes SARs for which vesting was accelerated for employees who became retirement eligible or were deceased.   

  (c)  Includes
4,773,976 SARs from the 2010 LTIP that vested on January 1, 2014.   

The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to unvested SARs and cash-settled RSUs (excluding stock
salary) and the weighted-average periods over which those costs are expected to be recognized are as follows:     

Stock Appreciation Rights Valuation

We
use a Monte Carlo simulation approach, which incorporates a range of input parameters that is consistently applied, to determine the fair value of SARs at each reporting
period.   

   The table below presents the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of SARs:     

(a)  The
dividend yield is the projected annualized AIG dividend yield estimated by Bloomberg Professional service as of the valuation date.   

  (b)  The
expected volatilities are the implied volatilities with the nearest maturity and strike price as of the valuation date from actively traded stock options on AIG Common Stock.   

  (c)  The
risk-free interest rate is the continuously compounded interest rate for the term between the valuation date and maturity date that is assumed to be constant and equal to the
interpolated value between the closest data points on the U.S. dollar LIBOR-swap curve as of the valuation date.   

  (d)  The
term to maturity is specified in the agreement for each SAR grant.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
313  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

Pension Plans

We
offer various defined benefit plans to eligible employees.   

  The
U.S. AIG Retirement Plan (the qualified plan) is a noncontributory defined benefit plan, which is subject to the provisions of ERISA. U.S. salaried employees who are employed by a participating
company and who have completed 12 months of continuous service are eligible to participate in the plan. Effective April 1, 2012, the qualified plan was converted to a cash balance
formula comprised of pay credits based on six percent of a plan participant's annual compensation (subject to IRS limitations) and annual interest credits. In addition, employees can take their vested
benefits when they leave AIG as a lump sum or an annuity option after completing at least three years of service. However, employees satisfying certain age and service requirements
(i.e. grandfathered employees) remain
covered under the old plan formula, which is based upon a percentage of final average compensation multiplied by years of credited service, up to 44 years. Grandfathered employees will receive
the higher of the benefits under the cash balance or final average pay formula at retirement. Non-U.S. defined benefit plans are generally either based on the employee's years of credited service and
compensation in the years preceding retirement or on points accumulated based on the employee's job grade and other factors during each year of service.   

  We
also sponsor several non-qualified unfunded defined benefit plans for certain employees, including key executives, designed to supplement pension benefits provided by the qualified plan. These
include the AIG Non-Qualified Retirement Income Plan (AIG NQRIP), which provides a benefit equal to the reduction in benefits under the qualified plan as a result of federal tax limitations on
compensation and benefits payable, and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (Supplemental), which provides additional retirement benefits to designated executives. Under the Supplemental Plan,
an annual benefit accrues at a percentage of final average pay multiplied by each year of credited service, not greater than 60 percent of final average pay, reduced by any benefits from the
current and any predecessor retirement plans (including the AIG NQRIP Plan), Social Security, and any benefits accrued under a Company sponsored foreign deferred compensation plan.   

Postretirement Plans

We
also provide postretirement medical care and life insurance benefits in the U.S. and in certain non-U.S. countries. Eligibility in the various plans is generally based
upon completion of a specified period of eligible service and attaining a specified age. Overseas, benefits vary by geographic location.   

U.S.
postretirement medical and life insurance benefits are based upon the employee attaining the age of 55 and having a minimum of ten years of service. Eligible employees who have medical coverage
can enroll in retiree medical upon termination. Medical benefits are contributory, while the life insurance benefits are generally non-contributory. Retiree medical contributions vary from none for
pre-1989 retirees to actual premium payments reduced by certain subsidies for post-1992 retirees. These contributions are subject to adjustment annually. Other cost sharing features of the medical
plan include deductibles, coinsurance and Medicare coordination. Effective April 1, 2012, the retiree medical employer subsidy for the AIG Postretirement plan was eliminated for employees who
were not grandfathered. Additionally, new employees hired after December 31, 2012 are not eligible for retiree life insurance.   

The following table presents the funded status of the plans reconciled to the amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The measurement date for most of the non-U.S.
defined benefit pension and     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
314  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

    postretirement plans is November 30, consistent with the fiscal year end of the sponsoring companies. For all other plans, measurement occurs as of December 31.   

(a)  We
do not currently fund postretirement benefits.   

  (b)  Includes
non-qualified unfunded plans of which the aggregate projected benefit obligation was $276 million and $238 million for the U.S. and $265 million and
$299 million for the non-U.S. at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
315  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

   The following table presents the accumulated benefit obligations for U.S. and non-U.S. pension benefit plans:   

Defined benefit pension plan obligations in which the projected benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan assets and the
accumulated benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan assets were as follows:   

The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost with respect to pensions and other postretirement
benefits:   

The estimated net loss and prior service credit that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next
fiscal year are $51 million and $36 million, respectively, for our combined defined benefit pension plans. For the defined benefit postretirement plans, the estimated amortization from
Accumulated other comprehensive income for net gain and prior service credit that will be amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year will be less than $11 million in the
aggregate.   

  The
annual pension expense in 2014 for the AIG U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans is expected to be approximately $194 million. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate or
expected long-term rate of return would decrease the 2014 expense by approximately $60 million and $46 million, respectively, with all other items remaining the same. Conversely, a 100
basis point decrease in the discount rate or expected long-term rate of return would increase the 2014 expense by approximately $92 million and $46 million, respectively, with all other
items remaining the same.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
316  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

Assumptions

The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations:   

*     The
non-U.S. plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries providing such benefits.   

The following table summarizes assumed health care cost trend rates for the U.S. plans:     

A one percent point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the following effect on our postretirement benefit
obligations:   

Our postretirement plans provide benefits primarily in the form of defined employer contributions rather than defined employer benefits. Changes in the assumed
healthcare cost trend rate have a minimal impact for U.S. plans because for post-1992 retirees, benefits are fixed dollar amounts based on service at retirement. Our non-U.S. postretirement plans are
not subject to caps.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
317  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit costs:   

*     The
non-U.S. plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of the subsidiaries providing such benefits.   

Discount Rate Methodology

The
projected benefit cash flows under the U.S. AIG Retirement plan were discounted using the spot rates derived from the Mercer Pension Discount Yield Curve at
December 31, 2013 and 2012, which resulted in a single discount rate that would produce the same liability at the respective measurement dates. The discount rates were 4.84 percent at
December 31, 2013 and 3.94 percent at December 31, 2012. The methodology was consistently applied for the respective years in determining the discount rates for the other U.S.
plans.   

  In
general, the discount rates for non-U.S. pension plans were developed based on the duration of liabilities on a plan by plan basis and were selected by reference to high quality corporate bonds in
developed markets or local government bonds where developed markets are not as robust or are nonexistent.   

  The
projected benefit obligation for Japan represents approximately 51 percent and 57 percent of the total projected benefit obligations for our non-U.S. pension plans at
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The weighted average discount rate of 1.39 percent and 1.54 percent at December 31, 2013 and 2012 respectively for Japan was
selected by reference to the AA rated corporate bonds reported by Rating and Investment Information, Inc. based on the duration of the plans' liabilities.   

Plan Assets

The
investment strategy with respect to assets relating to our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is designed to achieve investment returns that will (a) provide for the
benefit obligations of the plans over the long term (b) limit the risk of short-term funding shortfalls and (c) maintain liquidity sufficient to address cash needs. Accordingly, the
asset allocation strategy is designed to maximize the investment rate of return while managing various risk factors, including but not limited to, volatility relative to the benefit obligations,
diversification and concentration, and the risk and rewards profile applicable to each asset class. The assessment of the expected rate of return for all our plans is long-term and thus is not
expected to change annually; however, significant changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change.   

There
were no shares of AIG Common Stock included in the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans assets at December 31, 2013 or 2012.   

U.S. Pension Plan

The
long-term strategic asset allocation is reviewed and revised approximately every three years. The plan's assets are monitored by the investment committee of our
Retirement Board and the
investment managers, which includes allocating the plan's assets among approved asset classes within pre-approved ranges permitted by the strategic allocation.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
318  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

The following table presents the asset allocation percentage by major asset class for the U.S. qualified plan and the target
allocation:   

The expected long-term rate of return for the plan was 7.25 percent for both 2013 and 2012. The expected rate of return is an aggregation of expected
returns within each asset class category and incorporates the current and target asset allocations. The combination of the expected asset return and any contributions made by us are expected to
maintain the plan's ability to meet all required benefit obligations. The expected asset return for each asset class was developed based on an approach that considers key fundamental drivers of the
asset class returns in addition to historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns.   

Non-U.S. Pension Plans

The
assets of the non-U.S. pension plans are held in various trusts in multiple countries and are invested primarily in equities and fixed maturity securities to maximize
the long-term return on assets for a given level of risk.   

   The following table presents the asset allocation percentage by major asset class for Non-U.S. pension plans and the target allocation:   

The assets of AIG's Japan pension plans represent approximately 60 percent and 66 percent of total non-U.S. assets at December 31, 2013 and
2012 respectively. The expected long term rate of return was 1.15 percent and 1.76 percent, for 2013 and 2012, respectively, and is evaluated by the Japanese Pension Investment Committee
on a quarterly and annually basis along with various investment managers, and is revised to achieve the optimal allocation to meet targeted funding levels if necessary. In addition, the funding policy
is revised in accordance with local regulation every five years.   

  The
expected weighted average long-term rate of return for all our non-U.S. pension plans was 2.60 percent and 2.91 percent for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. It is an aggregation of expected returns within each asset class that was generally developed based on the building block approach that considers historical returns, current market
conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
319  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

Assets Measured at Fair Value

The following table presents information about our plan assets and indicates the level of the fair value measurement based on the observability of
the inputs used. The inputs and methodology used in determining the fair value of these assets are consistent with those used to measure our assets as noted in Note 5
herein.   

(a)  Includes
index funds that primarily track several indices including S P 500 and S P Small Cap 600 as well as other actively managed accounts composed of investments in large
cap companies.   

  (b)  Includes
investments in companies in emerging and developed markets.   

  (c)  Represents
investments in U.S. and non-U.S. government issued bonds, U.S. government agency or sponsored agency bonds, and investment grade corporate bonds.   

(d)  Consists
primarily of investments in securities or debt obligations that have a rating below investment grade.   

  (e)  Comprised
primarily of investments in U.S. government agency or U.S. government sponsored agency bonds.   

  (f)   Includes
funds composed of macro, event driven, long/short equity, and controlled risk hedge fund strategies and a separately managed controlled risk strategy.   

  (g)  Includes
funds that are diverse by geography, investment strategy, sector and vintage year.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
320  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

The inputs or methodologies used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in these securities. Based on
our investment strategy, we had no significant concentrations of risks at December 31, 2013.   

  The
U.S. pension plan holds a group annuity contract with U.S. Life, one of our subsidiaries, which totaled $27 million and $29 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.   

Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements

The following table presents changes in our U.S. and non-U.S. Level 3 plan assets measured at fair value:   

Transfers of Level 1 and Level 2 Assets

Our
policy is to record transfers of assets between Level 1 and Level 2 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent with the date
of the determination of fair value. Assets are transferred out of Level 1 when they are no longer transacted with sufficient frequency and volume in an active market. Conversely, assets are
transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 when transaction volume and frequency are indicative of an active market. We had no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2
during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets

We
record transfers of assets into or out of Level 3 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent with the date of the determination of
fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we transferred   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
321  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

  certain
investments in hedge funds into Level 3 as a result of limited market activity due to fund-imposed redemption restrictions. During the year ended December 31, 2012, transfers of
assets into Level 3 included certain other fixed maturity securities. These transfers were due to a decrease in market transparency, downward credit migration and an overall increase in price
disparity.   

Expected Cash Flows

Funding
for the U.S. pension plan ranges from the minimum amount required by ERISA to the maximum amount that would be deductible for U.S. tax purposes. Contributed amounts
in excess of the minimum amounts are deemed voluntary. Amounts in excess of the maximum amount would be subject to an excise tax and may not be deductible under the Internal Revenue Code. There are no
minimum required cash contributions for the AIG Retirement Plan in 2014. Supplemental Plan, or AIG NQRIP, and postretirement plan payments are deductible when paid.   

  Our
annual pension contribution in 2014 is expected to be approximately $177 million for our U.S. and non-U.S. plans. Included in this amount is $100 million in contributions to the AIG
Retirement Plan. These estimates are subject to change, since contribution decisions are affected by various factors including our liquidity, market performance and management's discretion.   

The expected future benefit payments, net of participants' contributions, with respect to the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, are as
follows:   

Defined Contribution Plans

We
sponsor several defined contribution plans for U.S. employees that provide for pre-tax salary reduction contributions by employees. The most significant plan is the AIG
Incentive Savings Plan, for which the Company's matching contribution is 100 percent of the first six percent of a participant's contributions, subject to the IRS-imposed limitations. In 2011,
company contributions of up to seven percent of annual salary were made depending on the employee's years of service subject to certain compensation limits. Our pre-tax expenses associated with these
plans were $155 million, $133 million and $99 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011 respectively.   

22. OWNERSHIP

Through
registered public offerings and AIG repurchase transactions, the Department of the Treasury disposed of all of its ownership of AIG Common Stock during 2012 and
2011. In the first quarter of 2013, we paid approximately $25 million to purchase two series of warrants issued in 2008 and 2009 to the Department of the Treasury. For discussion of the
Recapitalization, see Note 24 herein.   

  A
Schedule 13G/A filed February 14, 2014 reports aggregate ownership of 104,002,195 shares, or approximately 6.9 percent (based on the AIG Common Stock outstanding, as adjusted to
reflect the warrants owned), of AIG Common Stock and warrants (79,752,186 shares plus 24,250,009 warrants) as of December 31, 2013, including securities beneficially owned by The Fairholme Fund
and other funds and investment vehicles managed by Fairholme Capital Management and securities owned by Mr. Bruce Berkowitz personally. A Schedule 13G filed on February 12, 2014
reports aggregate ownership of 84,112,893 shares, or approximately 5.7 percent (based on the AIG Common Stock outstanding) of AIG Common Stock as of December 31, 2013, by various
subsidiaries of Blackrock, Inc. The calculation of ownership interest for purposes of the AIG Tax Asset Protection Plan and Article 13 of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation is
different than beneficial ownership for Schedule 13G.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
322  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 23. INCOME TAXES    

23. INCOME TAXES

The following table presents income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) by U.S. and foreign location in which such
pre-tax income (loss) was earned or incurred.   

The following table presents the income tax expense (benefit) attributable to pre-tax income (loss) from continuing
operations:   

Our actual income tax (benefit) expense differs from the statutory U.S. federal amount computed by applying the federal income tax rate
due to the following:   

For the year ended December 31, 2013, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 3.8 percent. The effective tax rate on
income from continuing operations differs from the statutory tax rate of 35 percent primarily due to tax benefits of $2.8 billion related to a decrease in AIG Life and Retirement's
capital loss carryforward valuation allowance, $396 million related to a decrease in certain other valuation allowances associated with foreign   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
323  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 23. INCOME TAXES    

jurisdictions
and $298 million associated with tax exempt interest income. These items were partially offset by charges of $632 million related to uncertain tax positions.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2012, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was (27.9) percent. The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations differs from
the statutory tax rate of 35 percent primarily due to decreases in AIG Life and Retirement's capital loss carryforward valuation allowance of $1.9 billion related to the actual and
projected gains from AIG Life and Retirement's available-for-sale securities, and tax effects associated with tax exempt interest income of $302 million. These items were partially offset by
changes in uncertain tax positions of $446 million.   

  For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was not meaningful, due to the significant effect of releasing approximately $18.4 billion
of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Other factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory rate included tax benefits of $454 million associated with tax exempt interest
income, $386 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, and $224 million related to our investment in subsidiaries and partnerships.   

   The following table presents the components of the net deferred tax assets (liabilities):   

The following table presents our U.S. consolidated income tax group tax losses and credits carryforwards as of December 31, 2013
on a tax return basis.   

Assessment of Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance

The
evaluation of the recoverability of the deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a
conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
324  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 23. INCOME TAXES    

  which
it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is
not needed.   

  Our
framework for assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires us to consider all available evidence, including:  

the nature, frequency, and amount of cumulative financial reporting income and losses in recent years;    
           the sustainability of recent operating profitability of our subsidiaries;   
           the predictability of future operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;    
           the carryforward periods for the net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards, including the
effect of reversing taxable temporary differences; and,   
           prudent and feasible actions and tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the
loss of the deferred tax asset.    

  As
a result of sales in the ordinary course of business to manage the investment portfolio and the implementation of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies during the year ended
December 31, 2013, certain capital loss carryforwards primarily related to AIG Life and Retirement were realized prior to their expiration. Therefore, for the year ended December 31,
2013, we recognized a decrease of $3.5 billion of capital loss carryforward valuation allowance associated with AIG Life and Retirement, of which $3.3 billion was allocated to income
from continuing operations and $200 million was allocated to other comprehensive income. Included in the $3.3 billion allocated to continuing operations was a decrease in deferred tax
asset valuation allowance of $552 million related to a portion of AIG Life and Retirement's capital loss carryforward that expired in 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we
also recognized a $1.0 billion decrease to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance associated with certain state, local and foreign jurisdictions, primarily attributable to our ability to
demonstrate sustainability of recent operating profitability within those jurisdictions over the relevant carryforward periods as well as routine business operations in the current year. Included in
the $1.0 billion was a decrease in deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $377 million related to tax attributes that expired.   

   The following table presents the net deferred tax assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2013 and 2012 on a U.S. GAAP basis:   

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance of U.S. Consolidated Income Tax Group

At
December 31, 2013, and 2012, our U.S. consolidated income tax group had net deferred tax assets after valuation allowance of $21.3 billion and
$17.3 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, our U.S. consolidated income tax group had valuation allowances of $1.7 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively.   

Deferred Tax Liability   Foreign, State and Local

At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $116 million and $613 million, respectively, related to foreign subsidiaries,
state and local tax jurisdictions, and certain domestic subsidiaries that file separate tax returns.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
325  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 23. INCOME TAXES    

  At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had deferred tax asset valuation allowances of $2.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, related to foreign subsidiaries, state and local tax
jurisdictions, and certain domestic subsidiaries that file separate tax returns. We maintained these valuation allowances following our conclusion that we could not demonstrate that it was more likely
than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. This was primarily due to factors such as cumulative losses in recent years and the inability to demonstrate profits within the specific
jurisdictions over the relevant carryforward periods.   

Tax Examinations and Litigation

We
file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with our eligible U.S. subsidiaries. Several U.S. subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements
previously filed separate U.S. federal income tax returns and were not part of our U.S. consolidated income tax group. Income earned by subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. is taxed, and income tax
expense is recorded, based on applicable U.S. and foreign law.   

  The
statute of limitations for all tax years prior to 2000 has expired for our consolidated federal income tax return. We are currently under examination for the tax years 2000 through 2006.   

  On
March 20, 2008, we received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS for years 1997 to 1999. The Notice asserted that we owe additional taxes and penalties for these years
primarily due to the disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross-border financing transactions. The transactions that are the subject of the Notice extend beyond the period covered by
the Notice, and the IRS is challenging the later periods. It is also possible that the IRS will consider other transactions to be similar to these transactions. We have paid the assessed tax plus
interest and penalties for 1997 to 1999. On February 26, 2009, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a refund of approximately
$306 million in taxes, interest and penalties paid with respect to its 1997 taxable year. We allege that the IRS improperly disallowed foreign tax
credits and that our taxable income should be reduced as a result of the 2005 restatement of our consolidated financial statements.   

  We
also filed an administrative refund claim on September 9, 2010 for our 1998 and 1999 tax years.   

  On
March 29, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, ruled on a motion for partial summary judgment that we filed on July 30, 2010 related to the
disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross-border financing transactions. The court denied our motion with leave to renew following the completion of discovery regarding certain
transactions referred to in our motion, which we believe may be significant to the outcome of the action.   

  On
August 1, 2012, we filed a motion for partial summary judgment related to the disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross border financing transactions. On March 29,
2013, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Southern District of New York) denied our motion. On April 17, 2013, we initiated a process for immediate appeal to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Second Circuit) and on November 5, 2013, the Southern District of New York certified our request. We are presently awaiting a decision from the
Second Circuit on whether to accept our immediate appeal to review the decision of the Southern District of New York.   

  We
will vigorously defend our position and continue to believe that we have adequate reserves for any liability that could result from the IRS actions.   

  We
continue to monitor legal and other developments in this area and evaluate the effect, if any, on our position, including recent decisions adverse to other taxpayers.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
326  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 23. INCOME TAXES    

Accounting For Uncertainty in Income Taxes

The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax
benefits:   

At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, were $4.3 billion, $4.4 billion and
$4.3 billion, respectively. The decrease from December 31, 2012 was primarily due to certain benefits realized due to the partial completion of the IRS examination covering the years
2003-2005 and foreign exchange translation, partially offset by increases related to foreign tax credits associated with cross border financing transactions. At December 31, 2013, 2012 and
2011, our unrecognized tax benefits related to tax positions that, if recognized, would not affect the effective tax rate because they relate to such factors as the timing, rather than the
permissibility, of the deduction were $0.1 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. Accordingly, at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the amounts of
unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate were $4.2 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively.   

  Interest
and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in income tax expense. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had accrued liabilities of $1.1 billion and
$935 million, respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we accrued expense (benefits) of
$142 million, $192 million and $(170) million, respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties.   

  We
regularly evaluate adjustments proposed by taxing authorities. At December 31, 2013, such proposed adjustments would not have resulted in a material change to our consolidated financial
condition, although it is possible that the effect could be material to our consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Although it is reasonably possible that a change in
the balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, based on the information currently available, we do not expect any change to be material to our consolidated
financial condition.   

   Listed below are the tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions:   

24. RECAPITALIZATION

On
January 14, 2011 (the Closing), we completed a series of integrated transactions to recapitalize AIG (the Recapitalization) with the Department of the Treasury, the FRBNY and AIG Credit
Facility Trust (the Trust), including the repayment of all amounts owed under the FRBNY Credit Facility. At the Closing, we recognized a net loss on extinguishment of debt, primarily representing
$3.3 billion in accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
327  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 24. RECAPITALIZATION    

Repayment and Termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility

At
the Closing, we repaid to the FRBNY approximately $21 billion in cash, representing complete repayment of all amounts owed under the FRBNY Credit Facility, and the
FRBNY Credit Facility was terminated. The funds for the repayment came from the net cash proceeds from our sale of 67 percent of the ordinary shares of AIA in its initial public offering and
from our sale of ALICO in 2010.   

Repurchase and Exchange of SPV Preferred Interests

At
the Closing, we drew down approximately $20.3 billion (the Series F Closing Drawdown Amount) under the Department of the Treasury Commitment
(Series F) pursuant to the Series F Securities Purchase Agreement (SPA). The Series F Closing Drawdown Amount was the full amount remaining under the Department of the Treasury
Commitment (Series F), less $2 billion that we designated to be available after the closing for general corporate purposes under a commitment relating to our Series G Preferred
Stock described below (the Series G Drawdown Right). Our right to draw on the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F) (other than the Series G Drawdown Right) was
terminated.   

  We
used the Series F Closing Drawdown Amount to repurchase all of the FRBNY's AIA SPV Preferred Interests and the ALICO SPV Preferred Interests. We transferred the SPV Preferred Interests to
the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the Series F Preferred Stock (described below).   

During
the first quarter of 2011, the liquidation preference of the ALICO SPV Preferred Interests was paid down in full. During the first quarter of 2012, the liquidation preference of the AIA SPV
Preferred Interests was paid down in full.   

Issuance and Cancellation of Our Series G Preferred Stock

At
the Closing, we and the Department of the Treasury amended and restated the Series F SPA to provide for the issuance of 20,000 shares of Series G Preferred
Stock by AIG to the Department of the Treasury. The Series G Preferred Stock was issued with a liquidation preference of zero. Because the net proceeds to us from the completion of the
registered public offering of AIG Common Stock in May 2011 of $2.9 billion exceeded the $2.0 billion Series G Drawdown Right, the Series G Drawdown Right was terminated and
the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled immediately thereafter.   

Exchange of Our Series C, E and F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock and Series G Preferred Stock

At
the Closing:  

the shares of our Series C Preferred Stock held by the Trust were exchanged for 562,868,096 shares of newly issued
AIG Common Stock, which were subsequently transferred by the Trust to the Department of the Treasury;   
           the shares of our Series E Preferred Stock held by the Department of the Treasury were exchanged for 924,546,133
newly issued shares of AIG Common Stock; and   
           the shares of the Series F Preferred Stock held by the Department of the Treasury, were exchanged for
(a) the SPV Preferred Interests, (b) 20,000 shares of the Series G Preferred Stock (subsequently cancelled) and (c) 167,623,733 shares of newly issued AIG Common Stock.    

  For
a discussion of the Department of the Treasury's sale of all of its ownership of AIG Common Stock, see Note 16 herein.   

Issuance of Warrants to Purchase AIG Common Stock

On
January 19, 2011, as part of the Recapitalization, we issued to the holders of record of AIG Common Stock as of January 13, 2011, by means of a dividend,
ten-year warrants to purchase a total of 74,997,778 shares of AIG Common Stock at an exercise price of $45.00 per share. We retained 67,650 of these warrants for tax withholding purposes. No warrants
were issued to the Trust, the Department of the Treasury or the FRBNY.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
328  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 25. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)    

25. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss)

*     Net
income attributable to AIG for the three-month period ended December 31, 2013 includes $327 million of net charges primarily related to income taxes to correct prior
2013 quarters presented. Such amounts are not material to any period presented.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
329  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 25. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)    

   The following tables present amounts previously reported and adjusted amounts presented in the above table. See Note 1 herein for
a description of the changes.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
330  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT

The
following condensed consolidating financial statements reflect the results of AIG Life Holdings, Inc. (AIGLH), a holding company and a wholly owned subsidiary of
AIG. AIG provides a full and unconditional guarantee of all outstanding debt of AIGLH.   

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets

(a)  Includes
intercompany derivative positions, which are reported at fair value before credit valuation adjustment.   

  (b)  Eliminated
in consolidation.   

  (c)  For
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, includes intercompany tax payable of $1.4 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively, and intercompany derivative
liabilities of $249 million and $602 million, respectively, for American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor) and intercompany tax receivables of $98 million and
$120 million, respectively, for AIGLH.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
331  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income (Loss)

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
332  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

*    Eliminated
in consolidation.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
333  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
334  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
335  

Table of Contents     

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

*     Includes
activities related to the Recapitalization. See Note 24 herein.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
336  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 26. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING DEBT    

Supplementary Disclosure of Condensed Consolidating Cash Flow Information

*     Includes
payment of FRBNY Credit Facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion in the first quarter of 2011.   

American International Group, Inc (As Guarantor) supplementary disclosure of non-cash activities:

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
337  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8 / NOTE 27. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS    

27. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

Debt Redemption

In
January 2014, AIG reduced DIB debt by $2.2 billion through a redemption of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of its 4.250% Notes
due 2014 and a repurchase of $1.0 billion of its 8.25% Notes due 2018 using cash and short term investments allocated to the DIB.   

Increase in Dividends Declared and Share Repurchase Authorization

On
February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.125 per share, payable on March 25, 2014 to shareholders of
record on March 11, 2014. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, including the regulatory framework
applicable to us.   

  On
February 13, 2014, our Board of Directors increased the aggregate purchase amount authorized under AIG's August 1, 2013 AIG Common Stock share repurchase authorization by
$1.0 billion, resulting in an aggregate remaining authorization of approximately $1.4 billion.   

See
Note 16 for further discussion.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
338  

Table of Contents    

PART II

ITEM 9 /  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.      

ITEM 9A /  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure
controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, an evaluation was carried out by AIG management, with the participation of AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act), as of December 31, 2013. Based on this evaluation, AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2013.   

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management
of AIG is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. AIG's internal control over financial reporting is a
process, under the supervision of AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of AIG's financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP.   

  Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  AIG
management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 based on the criteria established in the 1992 Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).   

  AIG
management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2013, our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on the criteria articulated in the 1992     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the COSO. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2013 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.   

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We
continue our implementation of new technology solutions, which began in 2010, to mitigate the reliance on manual controls and to improve internal controls relating to the
period-end financial reporting and consolidation process, income taxes and reporting for non-standard transactions. As a result, we have updated our internal controls to accommodate the modifications
to our business processes and accounting procedures. We have evaluated the effect on our internal control over financial reporting of this implementation for the quarter ended December 31,
2013, and determined that this conversion has not materially affected, and is not reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. There have been no other
changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
339  

Table of Contents   

PART III

ITEM 10 /  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Except for the information provided in Part 1, Item 1. Business under the heading "Directors and Executive Officers of AIG", all information required by
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement for AIG's 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the
SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.      

ITEM 11 /  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See Item 10 herein.      

ITEM 12 /  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

See Item 10 herein.      

ITEM 13 /  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

See Item 10 herein.      

ITEM 14 /  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

See Item 10 herein.      

PART IV

ITEM 15 /  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)    Financial
Statements and Schedules. See accompanying Index to Financial Statements.
      (b)    Exhibits.
See accompanying Exhibit Index.    
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
340  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 20th of February, 2014.   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
   /s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

(Robert H. Benmosche, President and 
Chief Executive Officer)  

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Robert H. Benmosche and David L. Herzog, and
each of them severally, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to sign in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do
any and all things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations and
requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and purposes as he or
she might or could do in person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 20th of February, 2014.   

Signature

Title

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

(Robert H. Benmosche)  
     
  President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

(David L. Herzog)  
      
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ DON W. CUMMINGS 

(Don W. Cummings)  
      
   Vice President   Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ W. DON CORNWELL 

(W. Don Cornwell)  
      
   Director  

/s/ JOHN H. FITZPATRICK 

(John H. Fitzpatrick)  
      
   Director  

/s/ WILLIAM G. JURGENSEN 

(William G. Jurgensen)  
      
   Director  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
341  

Table of Contents   

Signature

Title

/s/ CHRISTOPHER S. LYNCH 

(Christopher S. Lynch)  
     
  Director  

/s/ ARTHUR C. MARTINEZ 

(Arthur C. Martinez)  
      
   Director  

/s/ GEORGE L. MILES, JR. 

(George L. Miles, Jr.)  
      
   Director  

/s/ HENRY S. MILLER 

(Henry S. Miller)  
      
   Director  

/s/ ROBERT S. MILLER 

(Robert S. Miller)  
      
   Director  

/s/ SUZANNE NORA JOHNSON 

(Suzanne Nora Johnson)  
      
   Director  

/s/ RONALD A. RITTENMEYER 

(Ronald A. Rittenmeyer)  
      
   Director  

/s/ DOUGLAS M. STEENLAND 

(Douglas M. Steenland)  
      
   Director  

/s/ THERESA M. STONE 

(Theresa M. Stone)  
      
   Director  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
342  

Table of Contents    

EXHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibit 
Number     
     
    Description     
     
    Location     

2  
     
  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession  

(1) Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2010, among AIG, ALICO Holdings LLC, AIA Aurora LLC, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the United States Department of the Treasury and the
AIG Credit Facility Trust  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 8, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

3  
      
   Articles of incorporation and by-laws  

3(i)  
      
   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AIG  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 13, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

3(ii)  
      
   AIG By-laws, amended August 10, 2009  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 14, 2009 (File No. 1-8787).  

4  
      
   Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures  
      
   Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of AIG and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. AIG hereby undertakes to furnish to
the Commission, upon request, copies of any such instruments.  

(1) Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008, between AIG and Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 26, 2008 (File No. 1-8787).  

(2) Warrant Agreement (including Form of Warrant), dated as of January 6, 2011, between AIG and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Warrant Agent  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 7, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(3) Tax Asset Protection Plan, dated as of March 9, 2011, between AIG and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, including as Exhibit A the forms of Rights Certificate and of Election to
Exercise  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 9, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(4) Amendment No. 1, dated as of January 8, 2014, to Tax Asset Protection Plan, between AIG and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Rights Agent.  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 8, 2014 (File No. 1-8787).  

(5) Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of August 23, 2012, between AIG and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 23, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(6) Amendment to the Replacement Capital Covenants, dated as of August 23, 2012, by AIG in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 23, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

9  
      
   Voting Trust Agreement  
      
   None.  

10  
      
   Material contracts  

(1) AIG Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Option Plan*  
      
   Filed as to AIG's Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 4, 2003 (File No. 1-8787) and incorporated herein by reference.  

(2) Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the AIG Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Option Plan*  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 1-8787).  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
343  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
344  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
345  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
346  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 
Number     
     
    Description     
     
    Location     

(52) Amendment Number One to the American General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.73 to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(53) Amendment Number Two to the American General Corporation' Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.74 to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (File No. 1-8787).  

(54) Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2011, by and among American Home Assurance Company, Chartis Casualty Company (f/k/a American International South Insurance Company), Chartis Property
Casualty Company (f/k/a AIG Casualty Company), Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, Granite State Insurance Company, Illinois National Insurance Co., National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance Company,
The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, Chartis Select Insurance Company (f/k/a AIG Excess Liability Insurance Company Ltd.), Chartis Specialty Insurance Company (f/k/a American International Specialty Lines Insurance Company),
Landmark Insurance Company, Lexington Insurance Company, AIU Insurance Company, American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and American Home Assurance Company, National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire
Insurance Company and Chartis Overseas Limited acting as members of the Chartis Overseas Association as respects business written or assumed by or from affiliated companies of Chartis Inc. (collectively, the Reinsureds), Eaglestone Reinsurance
Company and National Indemnity Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(55) Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of February 18, 2014, between American International Group, Inc. and American General Life Insurance Company  
      
   Filed herewith.  

(56) Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of February 18, 2014, between American International Group, Inc. and The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of
New York  
      
   Filed herewith.  

(57) Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of February 18, 2014, among American International Group, Inc., AIG Property Casualty Inc., AIU Insurance Company,
American Home Assurance Company, AIG Assurance Company, AIG Property Casualty Company, AIG Specialty Insurance Company, Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, Granite State Insurance Company, Illinois National Insurance Co., Lexington
Insurance Company, National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance Company and The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania  
      
   Filed herewith.  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
347  

Table of Contents   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
348  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 
Number     
     
    Description     
     
    Location     

(74) Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2013 by and among AIG, AerCap Ireland Capital Limited, AerCap Holdings N.V., AerCap Ireland Limited and certain subsidiaries of AerCap Holdings N.V.,
 as guarantors.  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 16, 2013 (File No. 1-8787).  

11  
      
   Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings  
      
   Included in Note 18 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

12  
      
   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  
      
   Filed herewith.  

21  
      
   Subsidiaries of Registrant  
      
   Filed herewith.  

23  
      
   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
      
   Filed herewith.  

23.1  
      
   Consent of Independent Accountants  
      
   Filed herewith.  

24  
      
   Powers of attorney  
      
   Included on signature page and filed herewith.  

31  
      
   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications  
      
   Filed herewith.  

32  
      
   Section 1350 Certifications**  
      
   Filed herewith.  

99.02  
      
   Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act  
      
   Filed herewith.  

99.1  
      
   AIA Group Limited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended November 30, 2011  
      
   Filed herewith.  

101  
      
   Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of
Income for the three years ended December 31, 2013, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2013, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31,
 2013, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2013 and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
      
   Filed herewith.  

*     This
exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.   

  **   This
information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
349  

Table of Contents    

Summary of Investments   Other than Investments in Related
Parties   

      Schedule I     

*     Original
cost of equity securities and fixed maturities is reduced by other-than-temporary impairment charges, and, as to fixed maturity securities, reduced by repayments and adjusted
for amortization of premiums or accretion of discounts.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
350  

Table of Contents    

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 
Balance Sheets   Parent Company Only   

      Schedule II     

*     Eliminated
in consolidation.   

See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.     
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
351  

Table of Contents   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    (Continued)     Statements of Income   Parent Company
 Only   

    Schedule II     

*     Eliminated
in consolidation.   

See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    (Continued)     Statements of Income   Parent Company
 Only   

    Schedule II     

See accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
352  

Table of Contents    

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    (Continued)     Statements of Cash Flows   Parent Company Only   

    Schedule II     

Supplementary disclosure of cash flow information:   

See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.   

  *     2011
includes payment of the FRBNY credit facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion, before the facility was terminated on January 14, 2011 in connection with
the Recapitalization.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
353  

Table of Contents    

Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

American
International Group, Inc.'s (the Registrant) investments in consolidated subsidiaries are stated at cost plus equity in undistributed income of consolidated
subsidiaries. The accompanying condensed financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of American International
Group, Inc. and subsidiaries included in the Registrant's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 (2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K) filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 20, 2014.   

  The
Registrant includes in its statement of income dividends from its subsidiaries and equity in undistributed income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries, which represents the net income (loss) of
each of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.   

  On
December 1, 2009, the Registrant and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) completed two transactions that reduced the outstanding balance and the maximum amount of credit available
under the FRBNY Credit Facility by $25 billion. In connection with one of those transactions, the Registrant assigned $16 billion of its obligation under the FRBNY Credit Agreement to a
subsidiary. The Registrant subsequently settled its obligation to the subsidiary with a $15.5 billion non-cash dividend from the subsidiary. The difference was recognized over the remaining
term of the FRBNY Credit Agreement as a reduction to interest expense. The remaining difference was derecognized by AIG through earnings due to the repayment in January 2011 of all amounts owed under,
and the termination of, the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

  Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.   

  The
five-year debt maturity schedule is incorporated by reference from Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The
Registrant files a consolidated federal income tax return with certain subsidiaries and acts as an agent for the consolidated tax group when making payments to the Internal Revenue Service.
The Registrant and its subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts
allocated to the subsidiaries under the written agreement are included in Due from affiliates in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.   

  Income
taxes in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets are composed of the Registrant's current and deferred tax assets, the consolidated group's current income tax receivable, deferred taxes
related to tax attribute carryforwards of AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group and a valuation allowance to reduce the consolidated deferred tax asset to an amount more likely than not to be
realized. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

  The
consolidated U.S. deferred tax asset for net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards and valuation allowance are recorded by the Parent Company, which files the consolidated U.S.
Federal income tax return, and are not allocated to its subsidiaries. Generally, as, and if, the consolidated net operating losses and other tax attribute carryforwards are utilized, the intercompany
tax balance will be settled with the subsidiaries.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
354  

Table of Contents    

Supplementary Insurance Information   

      Schedule III     

   At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and for the years then ended   

(a)  Liability
for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense with respect to the General Insurance operations are net of discounts of $3.56 billion, $3.25 billion and
$3.18 billion at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  (b)  Reflected
in insurance balances payable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
355  

Table of Contents   

Reinsurance   

      Schedule IV     

At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and for the years then ended   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
356  

Table of Contents    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

      Schedule V     

   For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011     

*     Includes
recoveries of amounts previously charged off and reclassifications to/from other accounts.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
357  

<EX-10.55>
 2
 a2218248zex-10_55.htm
 EX-10.55

Exhibit 10.55   
     
   Execution Copy   
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  BETWEEN  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  AMERICAN GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY  
     
  This Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made, entered into and effective as of February 18, 2014, by and between American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), and American General Life Insurance Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the Texas (the  Company ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is a life insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of Texas (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AIG;  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining the Company s financial condition; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG and the Company executed that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated March 30, 2011 (as amended, the  2011 CMA ), and the parties have agreed to amend and restate such 2011 CMA as provided in this Agreement:  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.                                           Capital Contributions   .  In the event that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital for each of the Company s first and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on the Company s first and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Company s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s projected Company Action Level RBC (in each case as estimated by the Company as of the end of each such first and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts and circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 3 to make a contribution), AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 3, in accordance with paragraph 4 and in compliance with applicable law, provide to the Company cash, cash equivalents, securities or other  

instruments that qualify (as admitted assets) for purposes of calculating the Company s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital as of the end of each of the Company s second and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to the Company in such amount as is required for the Company s Total Adjusted Capital to equal a percentage of its Company Action Level RBC determined to be appropriate by the Company and AIG.  
     
  2.                                           Defined Terms   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Company Action Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall be equal to the percentage set forth on Schedule 1 attached hereto, which shall be agreed to by AIG and the Company at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of the Company s 2014 Annual Statement with the Domiciliary State s insurance department and following review against the capital adequacy standards and criteria ( Agency Criteria ) of each of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ).  Notwithstanding the obligation of the Company and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise the Specified Minimum Percentage on a more frequent basis, if the parties agree it is appropriate, to take into account (a) any material changes after the date hereof to any Agency Criteria adopted by any of S P, Moody s or A.M. Best, on the one hand, or to the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, which causes the results under the Agency Criteria to diverge from that under the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) the Company completes a material transaction that is treated materially differently by the Agency Criteria, on the one hand, and the NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Company which AIG and the Company agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  3.                                           Timing of Capital Contributions   .  The Company and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s first  
     
  2    

fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Company but prior to the filing by the Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the Domiciliary State.  
     
  4.                                           Funding Mechanics   .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 3, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to the Company s direct parent and cause such direct parent to then contribute such funds, securities or instruments so contributed by AIG to the Company, or (b) make such contribution directly to the Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor.  All contributions contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved and made in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations.  
     
  5.                                           AIG Policies   .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of the Company s senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any insurance regulator, the Company hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  6.                                           No Failure to Claim   .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of the Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  7.                                           Termination   .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 7, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to the Company, which notice shall state the effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the  
     
  3    

corporate structure or ownership of the Company, or (b) AIG sells the Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the Company s then-current rating as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of corporate structure or sale by AIG of the Company, the Company s capitalization is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than the Company s then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate automatically one year after the closing of any sale of the Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 7 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  8.                                           Policyholder Rights   .  Any policyholder holding a policy issued by the Company prior to the termination of this Agreement shall have the right to demand that the Company enforce the Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement, and, if the Company fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce such rights or the Company defaults in any claim or other payment owed to any such policyholder when due, such policyholder may proceed directly against AIG to enforce the Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement; provided, however, that no policyholder of the Company may take any action authorized under this paragraph 8 unless and until (a) such policyholder has given AIG written notice of its intent to enforce the terms of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph 8, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the nature of and basis for the policyholder s complaint and (b) AIG has failed to comply with this Agreement within sixty (60) days after such notice is given; and, provided, further, that upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 7 hereof, the rights of any policyholder as provided for under this paragraph 8 shall terminate effective as of the Termination Date, except with respect to the obligation of AIG (if any) to make capital contributions to the Company pursuant to paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement solely to the extent such obligation arose prior to, and remained unsatisfied as of, the Termination Date (it being understood that upon AIG s satisfaction of all such obligations after the Termination Date, no such policyholder shall have any rights against the Company or AIG, as the case may be, under this paragraph 8).  
     
  4    

9.                                           No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG   .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of the Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of the Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  10.                                    Notices   .  Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  
     
  If to AIG:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  175 Water Street  
  New York, New York 10038  
  Attention:  Secretary  
     
  If to the Company:  
     
  American General Life Insurance Company  
     
  2919 Allen Parkway  
  Houston, Texas 77019  
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  
     
  American General Life Insurance Company  
  c/o AIG Life and Retirement  
  1999 Avenue of the Stars, 27  th   Floor  
  Los Angeles, CA 90067  
  Attention:  General Counsel  
     
  11.                                    Successors   .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and the Company and its successors.  
     
  12.                                    Governing Law   .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  5    

13.                                    Severability   .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  14.                                    Entire Agreement; Amendments   .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  15.                                    Headings   .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  16.                                    Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  [signature page follows]  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN   INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/   Charles S. Shamieh       

Name:       
 
  Charles   S. Shamieh       

Title:       
 
  Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary       

AMERICAN   GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Mary Jane Fortin       

Name:       
 
  Mary   Jane Fortin       

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President   Chief Financial Officer       

SCHEDULE 1  
     
  The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.56>
 3
 a2218248zex-10_56.htm
 EX-10.56

Exhibit 10.56   
     
   Execution Copy   
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  BETWEEN  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  THE UNITED STATES LIFE INSURNANCE COMPANY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK  
     
  This Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made, entered into and effective as of February 18, 2014, by and between American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), and The United States Life Insurance Company of New York, a corporation organized under the laws of the New York (the  Company ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is a life insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of New York (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AIG;  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining the Company s financial condition; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG and the Company executed that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated March 30, 2011 (as amended, the  2011 CMA ), and the parties have agreed to amend and restate such 2011 CMA as provided in this Agreement:  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.                                           Capital Contributions   .  In the event that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital for each of the Company s first and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on the Company s first and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Company s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s projected Company Action Level RBC (in each case as estimated by the Company as of the end of each such first and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts and circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 3 to make a contribution), AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 3, in accordance with paragraph 4 and in compliance with applicable law,  

provide to the Company cash, cash equivalents, securities or other instruments that qualify (as admitted assets) for purposes of calculating the Company s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital as of the end of each of the Company s second and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to the Company in such amount as is required for the Company s Total Adjusted Capital to equal a percentage of its Company Action Level RBC determined to be appropriate by the Company and AIG.  
     
  2.                                           Defined Terms   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Company Action Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall be equal to the percentage set forth on Schedule 1 attached hereto, which shall be agreed to by AIG and the Company at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of the Company s 2014 Annual Statement with the Domiciliary State s insurance department and following review against the capital adequacy standards and criteria ( Agency Criteria ) of each of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ).  Notwithstanding the obligation of the Company and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise the Specified Minimum Percentage on a more frequent basis, if the parties agree it is appropriate, to take into account (a) any material changes after the date hereof to any Agency Criteria adopted by any of S P, Moody s or A.M. Best, on the one hand, or to the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, which causes the results under the Agency Criteria to diverge from that under the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) the Company completes a material transaction that is treated materially differently by the Agency Criteria, on the one hand, and the NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Company which AIG and the Company agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  3.                                           Timing of Capital Contributions   .  The Company and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time  
     
  2    

beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s first fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Company but prior to the filing by the Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the Domiciliary State.  
     
  4.                                           Funding Mechanics   .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 3, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to the Company s direct parent and cause such direct parent to then contribute such funds, securities or instruments so contributed by AIG to the Company, or (b) make such contribution directly to the Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor.  All contributions contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved and made in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations.  
     
  5.                                           AIG Policies   .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of the Company s senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any insurance regulator, the Company hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  6.                                           No Failure to Claim   .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of the Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  7.                                           Termination   .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 7, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to the Company, which notice shall state the effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees  
     
  3    

not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the corporate structure or ownership of the Company, or (b) AIG sells the Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the Company s then-current rating as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of corporate structure or sale by AIG of the Company, the Company s capitalization is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than the Company s then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate automatically one year after the closing of any sale of the Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 7 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  8.                                           Policyholder Rights   .  Any policyholder holding a policy issued by the Company prior to the termination of this Agreement shall have the right to demand that the Company enforce the Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement, and, if the Company fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce such rights or the Company defaults in any claim or other payment owed to any such policyholder when due, such policyholder may proceed directly against AIG to enforce the Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement; provided, however, that no policyholder of the Company may take any action authorized under this paragraph 8 unless and until (a) such policyholder has given AIG written notice of its intent to enforce the terms of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph 8, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the nature of and basis for the policyholder s complaint and (b) AIG has failed to comply with this Agreement within sixty (60) days after such notice is given; and, provided, further, that upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 7 hereof, the rights of any policyholder as provided for under this paragraph 8 shall terminate effective as of the Termination Date, except with respect to the obligation of AIG (if any) to make capital contributions to the Company pursuant to paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement solely to the extent such obligation arose prior to, and remained unsatisfied as of, the Termination Date (it being understood that upon AIG s satisfaction of all such obligations after the Termination Date, no such policyholder shall have  
     
  4    

any rights against the Company or AIG, as the case may be, under this paragraph 8).  
     
  9.                                           No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG   .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of the Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of the Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  10.                                    Notices   .  Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  
     
  If to AIG:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  175 Water Street  
  New York, New York 10038  
  Attention:  Secretary  
     
  If to the Company:  
     
  The United States Life Insurance Company in the  
  City of New York  
  2919 Allen Parkway  
  Houston, Texas 77019  
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  
     
  The United States Life Insurance Company in the  
  City of New York  
  c/o AIG Life and Retirement  
  1999 Avenue of the Stars, 27  th   Floor  
  Los Angeles, CA 90067  
  Attention:  General Counsel  
     
  11.                                    Successors   .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and the Company and its successors.  
     
  5    

12.                                    Governing Law   .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  13.                                    Severability   .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  14.                                    Entire Agreement; Amendments   .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  15.                                    Headings   .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  16.                                    Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  [signature page follows]  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN   INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/   Charles S. Shamieh       

Name:       
 
  Charles   S. Shamieh       

Title:       
 
  Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary       

THE   UNITED STATES LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY       

IN   THE CITY OF NEW YORK       

By:       
 
  /s/   Mary Jane Fortin       

Name:       
 
  Mary   Jane Fortin       

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President   Chief Financial Officer       

SCHEDULE 1  
     
  The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  

</EX-10.56>

<EX-10.57>
 4
 a2218248zex-10_57.htm
 EX-10.57

Exhibit 10.57   
     
   Execution Copy   
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  AMONG  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  AIG PROPERTY CASUALTY INC.  
  AND  
  THE INSURANCE COMPANIES NAMED ON SCHEDULE 1  
     
  This Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made, entered into and effective as of February 18, 2014, by and among American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), AIG Property Casualty Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIGPC ), and each of the insurance companies listed on Schedule 1 hereto (each, a  Company  and collectively, the  Fleet ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, each Company is a property-casualty insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of its applicable jurisdiction of incorporation set forth on Schedule 1 (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, each Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of each of AIG and AIGPC;  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining the Fleet s financial condition (the  Fleet  for purposes of this Agreement shall be treated as one insurance company as if each Company combined its financial attributes into one entity); and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG, AIGPC and each Company executed that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement on February 20, 2013 (the  2013 CMA ) and the parties have agreed to amend and restate such 2013 CMA as provided in this Agreement:  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.              Capital Contributions .  In the event that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital for each of the Fleet s first and third fiscal quarters (as determined based  

on each Company s first and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s projected year-end Authorized Control Level RBC (in each case as estimated by AIGPC as of the end of each such first and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts and circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 3 to make a contribution to AIGPC), AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 3, in accordance with paragraph 4 and in compliance with applicable law, provide to AIGPC cash, cash equivalents, securities or other instruments that qualify (as admitted assets in the appropriate jurisdiction) for purposes of calculating the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital as of the end of each of the Fleet s second and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected at year-end to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to AIGPC in such amount as is required for the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital to equal a percentage of its Authorized Control Level RBC determined to be appropriate by AIGPC and AIG.  
     
  2.              Defined Terms .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Authorized Control Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the applicable Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall be equal to the percentage set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto, which shall be agreed to by AIG and AIGPC at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of each Company s 2014 Annual Statement with the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department and following review against the capital adequacy standards and criteria ( Agency Criteria ) of each of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ).  Notwithstanding the obligation of AIGPC and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise the Specified Minimum Percentage on a more frequent basis, if the parties agree it is appropriate, to take into account (a) any material changes after the date hereof to any Agency Criteria adopted by any of S P, Moody s or A.M. Best, on the one hand, or to the law of any applicable Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, which causes the results under the Agency Criteria to diverge from that under the law of any applicable Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) any Company completes a material transaction that is treated materially differently by the Agency Criteria, on the one hand, and the NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on  
     
  2    

the other hand, or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Fleet or any Company which AIG and AIGPC agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  3.              Timing of Capital Contributions .  AIGPC and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time beginning on the first business day after the last filing of any Company s first fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Fleet s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the last filing of any Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Fleet s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Fleet but prior to the last filing by any Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the applicable Domiciliary State.  
     
  4.              Funding Mechanics .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 3, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to AIGPC and AIGPC shall further contribute such funds, securities or instruments to the applicable subsidiaries in furtherance of the purposes of this Agreement and in the reasonable discretion of the management of AIGPC, or (b) make such contribution directly to any applicable Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor.  All contributions contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved and made in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations.  
     
  5.              AIG Policies .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of any Company s or AIGPC s senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any insurance regulator, each Company and AIGPC hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  6.              No Failure to Claim .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of AIGPC or any Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  3    

7.              Termination .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 7, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to AIGPC and each applicable Company, which notice shall state the effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the corporate structure or ownership of AIGPC or any Company, or (b) AIG sells AIGPC or any Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the then-current rating of AIGPC or such Company, as applicable, being restructured or sold as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of the corporate structure or sale by AIG of AIGPC or such Company, AIGPC s or such Company s capitalization, as applicable, is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than AIGPC s or such Company s, as applicable, then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate automatically, with respect to any particular Company, one year after the closing of any sale of such Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 7 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  8.              Policyholder Rights .  Any policyholder holding a policy issued by any Company prior to the termination of this Agreement shall have the right to demand that such Company enforce such Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement, and, if such Company fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce such rights or such Company defaults in any claim or other payment owed to any such policyholder when due, such policyholder may proceed directly against AIG to enforce such Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement;  provided, however,  that no policyholder of any Company may take any action authorized under this paragraph 8 unless and until (a) such policyholder has given AIG written notice of its intent to enforce the terms of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph 8, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the nature of and basis for the policyholder s complaint and (b) AIG has failed to comply with this Agreement within sixty (60) days after such notice is given; and,  provided, further,  that upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 7 hereof, the rights of any policyholder as provided for under this paragraph 8 shall terminate effective as of the Termination Date, except with respect to the obligation of AIG (if any) to  
     
  4    

make capital contributions to any Company pursuant to paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement solely to the extent such obligation arose prior to, and remained unsatisfied as of, the Termination Date (it being understood that upon AIG s satisfaction of all such obligations after the Termination Date, no such policyholder shall have any rights against AIGPC or any Company or AIG, as the case may be, under this paragraph 8).  
     
  9.              No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of AIGPC or any Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of any Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  10.           Notices .  Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  
     
  If to AIG:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  175 Water Street  
  New York, New York 10038  
  Attention:  Secretary  
     
  If to AIGPC:  
     
  AIG Property Casualty Inc.  
  175 Water Street, 24  th   Floor  
  New York, NY 10038  
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  
     
  AIG Property Casualty U.S. Law Department  
  175 Water Street, 18  th   Floor  
  New York, NY 10038  
  Attention:  AIG Property Casualty U.S. General Counsel  
     
  11.           Fiscal Year .  Each of the Companies represents that its fiscal year is the same as each other Company and covenants that it shall not change its fiscal year without the prior written consent of AIG.  
     
  5    

12.           Successors .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and each of AIGPC and each Company and its successors.  
     
  13.           Governing Law .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  14.           Severability .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  15.           Entire Agreement; Amendments .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties without the need for any action.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  16.           Headings .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  17.           Counterparts .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN   INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/   Charles S. Shamieh       

Name:       
 
  Charles   S. Shamieh       

Title:       
 
  Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary       

AIG   PROPERTY CASUALTY INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/   James Bracken       

Name:       
 
   James Bracken       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Assistant   Secretary       

AIG   ASSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

AIG   PROPERTY CASUALTY COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

AIG   SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

AIU   INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

AMERICAN   HOME ASSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

COMMERCE   AND INDUSTRY INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

GRANITE   STATE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

ILLINOIS   NATIONAL INSURANCE CO.       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

LEXINGTON   INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

NATIONAL   UNION FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH, PA.       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

NEW   HAMPSHIRE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

THE   INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA       

By:       
 
  /s/   Richard Hoskins       

Name:       
 
  Richard   Hoskins       

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President       

By:       
 
  /s/   Denis M. Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis   M. Butkovic       

Title:       
 
  Secretary       

SCHEDULE 1  

Company        

Domiciliary State            

(a)       

AIG   Assurance Company       

PA           

(b)       

AIG   Property Casualty Company       

PA           

(c)       

AIG   Specialty Insurance Company       

IL           

(d)       

AIU   Insurance Company       

NY           

(e)       

American   Home Assurance Company       

NY           

(f)       

Commerce   and Industry Insurance Company       

NY           

(g)       

Granite   State Insurance Company       

PA           

(h)       

Illinois   National Insurance Co.       

IL           

(i)       

Lexington   Insurance Company       

DE           

(j)       

National   Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.       

PA           

(k)       

New   Hampshire Insurance Company       

PA           

(l)       

The   Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania       

PA              

SCHEDULE 2  
     
  The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 300% of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  
     
  1    

</EX-10.57>

<EX-10.58>
 5
 a2218248zex-10_58.htm
 EX-10.58

Exhibit 10.58   
       
   Execution Copy   
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  BETWEEN  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  AGC LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY  
     
  This Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made and entered into as of February 18, 2014, by and between American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), and AGC Life Insurance Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Missouri  (the  Company ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is a life insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of Missouri (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AIG;  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining and enhancing the Company s financial condition; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG and the Company executed that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated March 15, 2011 (the  2011 CMA ) and the parties have agreed to amend and restate such 2011 CMA as provided in this Agreement:  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.                                           Capital Contributions   .  In the event that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital (a) for each of the Company s first, second and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on the Company s first, second and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Company s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s projected Company Action Level RBC (in each case as estimated by the Company as of the end of each such first, second and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts  

and circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 3 to make a contribution) or (b) as of each fiscal year end (as shown in the Company s fiscal year-end filed statutory financial statements, together with any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Company s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s Company Action Level RBC, AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 3, in accordance with paragraph 4 and in compliance with applicable law, provide to the Company cash, cash equivalents, securities or other instruments that qualify (as admitted assets) for purposes of calculating the Company s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital as of the end of each of the Company s second, third and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to the Company in such amount as is required for the Company s Total Adjusted Capital to equal a percentage of its Company Action Level RBC determined to be appropriate by the Company and AIG.  
     
  2.                                           Defined Terms   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Company Action Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) provided that in either case such calculations shall be adjusted by making appropriate extrapolations from the applicable quarterly financial statement to an estimated annual statement. The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall initially be equal to 250% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC, which shall be reviewed and agreed to by AIG and the Company at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of the Company s 2014 Annual Statement with the Domiciliary State s insurance department;  provided, however , that no change to the Specified Minimum Percentage would become effective until following 60 days written notice to the  Domiciliary State s insurance department and the Domiciliary State has not otherwise disapproved. Notwithstanding the obligation of the Company and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise  
     
  2    

the Specified Minimum Percentage taking into account (a) any material changes to the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) any material transaction completed by the Company that is treated materially differently by the NAIC RBC rules or instructions or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Company which AIG and the Company agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  3.                                           Timing of Capital Contributions   .  The Company and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s first fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Company but prior to the filing by the Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the Domiciliary State.  
     
  4.                                           Funding Mechanics   .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 3, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to the Company s direct parent and cause such direct parent to then contribute such funds, securities or instruments so contributed by AIG to the Company, or (b) make such contribution directly to the Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor.  All contributions contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved and made in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations.  
     
  5.                                           AIG Policies   .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of the Company s  
     
  3    

senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any insurance regulator, the Company hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  6.                                           No Failure to Claim   .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of the Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  7.                                           Termination   .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 7, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  Subject to the requirements of paragraph 10, AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to the Company, which notice shall state the effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the corporate structure or ownership of the Company, or (b) AIG sells the Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ), A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ) or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the Company s then-current rating as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of corporate structure or sale by AIG of the Company, the Company s capitalization is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than the Company s then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, and subject to the requirements of paragraph 10, this Agreement will terminate automatically one year after the closing of any sale of the Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 7 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  4    

8.                                           No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG   .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of the Company insofar as concerns any policyholder, creditor or stakeholder of the Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of the Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  9.                                          Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  
     
  If to AIG:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  175 Water Street  
  New York, New York 10038  
  Attention:  Secretary  
     
  If to the Company:  
     
  AGC Life Insurance Company  
  2919 Allen Parkway  
  Houston, TX 77019  
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  
     
  AGC Life Insurance Company  
  c/o AIG Life and Retirement  
  1999 Avenue of the Stars, 27  th   Floor  
  Los Angeles, CA 90067  
  Attention:  General Counsel  
     
  10.                                    Rights of Domiciliary State s Insurance Department   .  The Company and AIG agree that the Domiciliary State s insurance department and its Director are intended to be third party beneficiaries of this Agreement with full rights to enforce its terms as to either the Company or AIG or both.  No termination of this Agreement will become effective unless ninety (90) days prior written notice of  
     
  5    

such termination has been provided to the Domiciliary State s insurance department and its Director.  
     
  11.                                    Successors   .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and the Company and its successors.  
     
  12.                                    Governing Law   .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  13.                                    Severability   .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  14.                                    Entire Agreement; Amendments   .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  15.                                    Headings   .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  16.                                    Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  [signature page follows]  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  

By:       
 
  /s/ Charles S. Shamieh       

Name:   Charles S. Shamieh       

Title:   Senior Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary       

AGC   LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/ Mary Jane Fortin       

Name:   Mary Jane Fortin       

Title:   Executive Vice President   Chief Financial Officer       

By:       
 
  /s/ Steve Anderson       

Name:   Steve Anderson       

Title:   Vice President   Controller       

7    

</EX-10.58>

<EX-10.59>
 6
 a2218248zex-10_59.htm
 EX-10.59

Exhibit 10.59   
       
   Execution Copy   
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  BETWEEN  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  THE VARIABLE ANNUITY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY  
     
  This Amended and Restated Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made, entered into and effective as of February 18, 2014, by and between American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), and The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the Texas (the  Company ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is a life insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of Texas (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, the Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AIG;  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining the Company s financial condition; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG and the Company executed that certain Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated March 30, 2011 (as amended, the  2011 CMA ), and the parties have agreed to amend and restate such 2011 CMA as provided in this Agreement:  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.                                           Capital Contributions   .  In the event that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital for each of the Company s first and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on the Company s first and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Company s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s projected Company Action Level RBC (in each case as estimated by the Company as of the end of each such first and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts and circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 3 to make a contribution), AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 3, in accordance with paragraph 4 and in compliance with applicable law,  

provide to the Company cash, cash equivalents, securities or other instruments that qualify (as admitted assets) for purposes of calculating the Company s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Company s Total Adjusted Capital as of the end of each of the Company s second and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to the Company in such amount as is required for the Company s Total Adjusted Capital to equal a percentage of its Company Action Level RBC determined to be appropriate by the Company and AIG.  
     
  2.                                           Defined Terms   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Company Action Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall be equal to the percentage set forth on Schedule 1 attached hereto, which shall be agreed to by AIG and the Company at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of the Company s 2014 Annual Statement with the Domiciliary State s insurance department and following review against the capital adequacy standards and criteria ( Agency Criteria ) of each of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ).  Notwithstanding the obligation of the Company and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise the Specified Minimum Percentage on a more frequent basis, if the parties agree it is appropriate, to take into account (a) any material changes after the date hereof to any Agency Criteria adopted by any of S P, Moody s or A.M. Best, on the one hand, or to the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, which causes the results under the Agency Criteria to diverge from that under the law of the Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) the Company completes a material transaction that is treated materially differently by the Agency Criteria, on the one hand, and the NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Company which AIG and the Company agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  3.                                           Timing of Capital Contributions   .  The Company and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the  
     
  2    

following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s first fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the filing of the Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Company s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Company but prior to the filing by the Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the Domiciliary State.  
     
  4.                                           Funding Mechanics   .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 3, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to the Company s direct parent and cause such direct parent to then contribute such funds, securities or instruments so contributed by AIG to the Company, or (b) make such contribution directly to the Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor.  All contributions contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved and made in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations.  
     
  5.                                           AIG Policies   .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of the Company s senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any insurance regulator, the Company hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  6.                                           No Failure to Claim   .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of the Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  7.                                           Termination   .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 7, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written  
     
  3    

notice to the Company, which notice shall state the effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the corporate structure or ownership of the Company, or (b) AIG sells the Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the Company s then-current rating as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of corporate structure or sale by AIG of the Company, the Company s capitalization is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than the Company s then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate automatically one year after the closing of any sale of the Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 7 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  8.                                           Policyholder Rights   .  Any policyholder holding a policy issued by the Company prior to the termination of this Agreement shall have the right to demand that the Company enforce the Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement, and, if the Company fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce such rights or the Company defaults in any claim or other payment owed to any such policyholder when due, such policyholder may proceed directly against AIG to enforce the Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement; provided, however, that no policyholder of the Company may take any action authorized under this paragraph 8 unless and until (a) such policyholder has given AIG written notice of its intent to enforce the terms of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph 8, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the nature of and basis for the policyholder s complaint and (b) AIG has failed to comply with this Agreement within sixty (60) days after such notice is given; and, provided, further, that upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 7 hereof, the rights of any policyholder as provided for under this paragraph 8 shall terminate effective as of the Termination Date, except with respect to the obligation of AIG (if any) to make capital contributions to the Company pursuant to paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Agreement solely to the extent such obligation arose prior to, and remained unsatisfied as of, the Termination  
     
  4    

Date (it being understood that upon AIG s satisfaction of all such obligations after the Termination Date, no such policyholder shall have any rights against the Company or AIG, as the case may be, under this paragraph 8).  
     
  9.                                           No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG   .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of the Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of the Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  10.                                    Notices   .  Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  
     
  If to AIG:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  175 Water Street  
  New York, New York 10038  
  Attention:  Secretary  
     
  If to the Company:  
     
  The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
  2919 Allen Parkway  
  Houston, TX 77019  
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer  
     
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  
     
  The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
  c/o AIG Life and Retirement  
  1 SunAmerica Center, 27  th   Floor  
  Los Angeles, CA 90067  
  Attention:  General Counsel  
     
  11.                                    Successors   .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and the Company and its successors.  
     
  5    

12.                                    Governing Law   .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  13.                                    Severability   .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  14.                                    Entire Agreement; Amendments   .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  15.                                    Headings   .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  16.                                    Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  [signature page follows]  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       
 
  /s/   Charles S. Shamieh       

Name:       
 
  Charles   S. Shamieh       

Title:       
 
  Senior   Vice President and Chief Corporate Actuary       

THE VARIABLE ANNUITY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY       

By:       
 
  /s/   Mary Jane Fortin       

Name:       
 
  Mary   Jane Fortin       

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President   Chief Financial Officer       

SCHEDULE 1  
     
  The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 385% of the Company s Company Action Level RBC.  

</EX-10.59>

<EX-10.69>
 7
 a2218248zex-10_69.htm
 EX-10.69

Exhibit 10.69   
     
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   
   2012 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN   
     
  The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the   Compensation Committee  ) of American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), has adopted this American International Group, Inc. 2012 Executive Severance Plan (the   Plan  ), first effective as of December 4, 2012 (the   Effective Date  ) and amended as of December 19, 2013.  Terms not defined herein have the meanings provided in the Glossary of Terms.  
     
   I.                                                Purpose   
     
  The Plan is maintained for the purpose of providing severance payments and benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees covered by the Plan whose employment is terminated under the circumstances set forth in the Plan.  
     
   II.                                           Term   
     
  The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date and continue until terminated by the Compensation Committee with 12 months  notice to Eligible Employees in accordance with  Section VIII  below.  
     
   III.                                      Eligibility   
     
  The employees eligible to participate in the Plan at any time (the   Eligible Employees  ) shall be comprised of each employee who (1) is a full-time employee in grade level 27 or above at the time of the termination of his or her employment or (2) is eligible to participate in the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Severance Plan, first effective as of March 11, 2008 and as amended (the   Old Plan  ) as of the Effective Date (an   Old Plan Participant  ).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an employee has an employment agreement (or other agreement or arrangement) that provides for payment of severance in connection with a  Covered Termination  (as defined in  Section IV  below), the employee will not be an Eligible Employee;  provided  that payment of statutorily-required severance shall not prohibit an employee from being an Eligible Employee.  Receipt of the Plan by an Old Plan Participant shall be deemed to constitute notice, delivered as of the Effective Date, for the purpose of terminating the Old Plan under Section VIII of the Old Plan.  
     
   IV.                                       Severance   
     
  Subject to  Section IV.G  below, an Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in this  Section IV  if he or she experiences a  Covered Termination   provided  that such benefits shall be modified as set forth in the appendices to the Plan to comply with local laws, bylaws, statutes, regulations, codes of practice or applicable guidance issued by a governmental department or regulatory authority (together referred to as  Local Law ) for any employee whose primary worksite is outside of the United States but is not classified as a Mobile Overseas Personnel; and  provided ,  further , that any Eligible Employee who experiences a  Covered Termination  and is entitled to statutorily-required severance shall receive the greater of such statutorily-required severance and the benefits described in this  Section IV  or shall have his or her benefits described in this  
     
  1    

Section IV    reduced by the statutorily-required severance paid to the Eligible Employee, as required by applicable law.  
     
  A   Covered Termination   shall be:  
     
  (1) For all Eligible Employees, a termination of service during the term of the Plan for any reason other than the Eligible Employee s: (a) death; (b) Disability; (c) resignation (including any resignation that an Eligible Employee may assert was a constructive discharge); or (d) termination by the Company or its subsidiaries for Cause (for purposes of this Plan, the term subsidiaries shall be deemed to include both direct and indirect subsidiaries); and  
     
  (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, for any Eligible Employees in grade level 27 or above, such Eligible Employee s termination of service during the term of the Plan as a result of resignation from his or her employment for Good Reason.  
     
  Unless otherwise stated in the Plan, for purposes of an Eligible Employee s employment under the Plan,  termination  of employment or service shall mean the date upon which the Eligible Employee ceases to perform his or her employment duties and responsibilities for the Company and/or each of its subsidiaries and, to the extent consistent with the foregoing, shall be the  last day worked/end work date  that is coded in the payroll system applicable to the Eligible Employee.  
     
   A.                    Accrued Wages and Expense Reimbursements   
     
  If an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee shall receive: (1) accrued wages due through the date of termination in accordance with the Eligible Employee s employer s normal payroll practices; (2) reimbursement for any unreimbursed business expenses properly incurred by the Eligible Employee prior to the date of termination in accordance with Company policy (and for which the Eligible Employee has submitted proper documentation as may be required by the Company, with such documentation and each reimbursement to occur not later than one year after the Eligible Employee s date of termination); and (3) any accrued but unused vacation pay in a lump sum paid within two and one-half months after the end of the calendar year in which the Eligible Employee s date of termination occurs (the   Termination Year  ).  
     
   B.                    Severance, Generally   
     
  Except as provided in  Section IV.C  below, in the event of a Covered Termination, an Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive the following:  
     
  (1)                                With respect to an Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive award ( STI Award ) under the American International Group, Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan or its successor plan (the  STI Plan ), an Eligible Employee shall receive:  
     
  (a)                    The  Prior Year Incentive  as calculated below.   
     
  (i)            If the date of termination is after the end of the applicable STI Plan performance year, but prior to the Threshold/First Payment Date with respect to an STI Award, an amount equal to the Eligible Employee s STI Target for such performance year as adjusted for the actual performance of the Company and/or  
     
  2    

applicable business unit or function, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion.  
     
  (x)  For purposes of this section, Threshold/First Payment Date will mean (i) for Eligible Employees who have an STI Award that is entirely payable in the year following the STI Plan performance year, the date such STI Award is paid, and (ii) for Eligible Employees who have a portion of their STI Award designated as a  Deferred STI Award  such that a portion of such STI Award is to be paid two or more calendar years after the STI Plan performance year, the date the  first  payment of such STI Award is paid.  
     
  (y) For purposes of this section, an Eligible Employee s STI Target will mean the target annual incentive amount assigned to such Eligible Employee for a performance year pursuant to the STI Plan.  
     
  (ii)                                      With respect to Eligible Employees who have a portion of their STI Award designated as a  Deferred STI Award,  if the date of termination is after the end of the STI Plan performance year  and  after the Threshold/First Payment Date for such STI Award, the amount of the Deferred STI Award portion not yet paid.  
     
  (iii)                                   In all events, such amounts will be paid at the same time as they are paid to similarly-situated active employees with similar STI Awards, and will be subject to the same deferral, clawback and repayment terms. For point of clarity, Prior Year Incentive payments to Eligible Employees covered under the AIG Clawback Policy, as may be amended from time to time, are subject to forfeiture and/or repayment to the extent provided for in such policy.  
     
  (b)                    The  Pro Rata Incentive  for the Termination Year as calculated below.   
     
  (i)                                         If the date of termination is on or after April 1 of a performance year through December 31 of such performance year, a Pro Rated portion of an amount equal to the Eligible Employee s STI Target as adjusted for the actual performance of the Company and/or applicable business unit or function, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion.  
     
  (x) For purposes of this section, Pro Rated will mean a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full months in the Termination Year that the Eligible Employee was actively employed or on an approved leave of absence during which the Eligible Employee was receiving salary continuation from a Company payroll (a  Paid Leave of Absence ) and the denominator of which is 12.  
     
  (ii)                                      To the extent an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination prior to April 1 of the Termination Year, no Pro Rata Incentive shall be paid.  
     
  (iii)                                   All Pro Rata Incentive payments will be paid at the same time or times as they are paid to similarly situated active employees with similar STI Awards, and will be subject to the same deferral, clawback and repayment terms. For point of clarity, Pro Rata Incentive payments to Eligible Employees covered  
     
  3    

under the AIG Clawback Policy, as may be amended from time to time, are subject to forfeiture and/or repayment to the extent provided for in such policy.  
     
  (iv)                                  For avoidance of doubt, the terms STI Target and STI Award as used in this Section include any portion of an STI Target and STI Award designated as a Deferred STI Award (described above).  
     
  For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall an Eligible Employee be entitled to a duplication of any amounts payable under this paragraph or paragraph (1) above and under the terms of the American International Group, Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan as a result of his or her Covered Termination.  
     
  (2)                                A lump sum cash payment equal to the product of: (a) a  Multiplier  (as defined below)  times  (b) the sum of (i) the greater of actual base salary earned by the Eligible Employee over the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the date of termination and the Eligible Employee s annualized base salary rate as of the date of termination  plus  (ii) the average of the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus actually paid for the three (3) most recently completed calendar years preceding  the Termination Year for which annual short-term incentive bonuses had generally been paid. Such amount will be paid as soon as practicable following the Covered Termination but in no event later than sixty (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year).  If the Eligible Employee resigns for Good Reason, the amount described in clause (i) shall be the greater of actual base salary earned by the Eligible Employee over the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the event giving rise to Good Reason and the Eligible Employee s annualized base salary rate immediately prior to the event giving rise to Good Reason.  
     
  The   Multiplier   shall be as follows:  
     
  (1)  For an Eligible Employee in grade level 27 or 28: (a) 1 in the event of a termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason; or (b) 1.5 in the event of a termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control (a   Change in Control Termination   and  
     
  (2)  For an Eligible Employee in grade level 29 or above: (a) 1.5 in the event of a termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason; or (b) 2 in the event of Change in Control Termination.  
     
  (3)                                     For purposes of paragraph (1)(b) above, if no STI Target is established for an Eligible Employee for the Termination Year, the Pro Rata Incentive shall be based on the average of the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive bonuses paid with respect to the three (3) most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year for which annual short-term incentive bonuses had generally been paid;  provided  that (A) if the Eligible Employee was not employed for all years that would otherwise be included in the average, the Eligible Employee s target annual short-term incentive bonus with respect to the most recently completed calendar year preceding the Termination Year in which the Eligible Employee was employed shall be used and (B) if the Eligible Employee received no annual short-term incentive bonus for one of the years that would otherwise be included in the average as a result of an approved leave of absence, the Eligible Employee s target annual short-term incentive bonus with respect to the most recently completed calendar year preceding the Termination Year in which such condition did not apply shall be used.  
     
  4    

With respect to paragraph 2 above, (a) if the Eligible Employee was not employed for all years that would otherwise be included in the average, the average shall be computed based on each such year in which Eligible Employee was employed; (b) if the Eligible Employee earns or is awarded no short-term incentive bonus for one of the years that would otherwise be included in the average as a result of an approved leave of absence, the average shall be computed by using the three most recently completed calendar years preceding the calendar year of termination in which such condition did not apply; and (c) if an Eligible Employee was not employed long enough for the Eligible Employee s first short-term incentive bonus to be paid, the Eligible Employee s target short-term incentive bonus shall be used in lieu of the average described above.  
     
  For the avoidance of doubt, with respect to this Section IV.B, (i) for any year in which an Eligible Employee was a  Top 26-100  employee subject to the determinations of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation ( the   Special Master  ), for the purposes of determining what constitutes a short-term annual incentive bonus, (x) Variable Cash granted to the Eligible Employee (  Top 26-100 Variable Cash  ) shall be deemed to be an annual short-term incentive bonus to the extent actual annual short-term incentive bonus paid is used above in this Section, and (y) Variable Cash targets with respect to the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be an annual short-term incentive bonus to the extent target annual short-term incentive bonus is used above in this Section, and (ii) for any year in which an Eligible Employee was a  Top 25  employee subject to the determinations of the Special Master, the Eligible Employee s annual short-term incentive target amount for the Termination Year, shall be deemed to be the annual short-term incentive bonus solely for purposes of this Plan.  
     
   C.                                            Severance for Old Plan Participants   
     
  If an Old Plan Participant experiences a Covered Termination, he or she shall receive (1) the Prior Year Incentive (if applicable) , (2) the Pro Rata Incentive and (3) severance equal to (i) for an Old Plan Participant below grade level 27, the  Old Plan Benefit  (as defined below) or (ii) for an Old Plan Participant in grade level 27 or above, (A) the Old Plan Benefit  plus  (B) the difference, if any, between the amount provided in  Section IV.B.2  and the  Old Plan Benefit  (the   New Plan Payment  ).  The   Old Plan Benefit   shall be the sum of the following, divided by 12, and then multiplied by the number of months in the  Severance Period  (as defined below) applicable to the Old Plan Participant:  
     
  (1)  Annual base salary as of the date of termination;  plus   
     
  (2)  The average of the Old Plan Participant s  Annual Cash Bonuses  (as defined below) awarded and paid with respect to the three most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year (including any year in which the bonus was zero);  provided  that: (a) if the date of termination occurs during a calendar year before the time that Annual Cash Bonuses have generally been paid out to employees for the prior calendar year s performance, the average shall be computed based on the second, third and fourth calendar years prior to the calendar year in which the termination occurs, (b) if the Old Plan Participant was not employed for all years that would otherwise be included in the average, the average shall be computed based on each such year in which the Old Plan Participant was employed and (c) if the Old Plan Participant earns or is awarded no bonus for one of the years that would otherwise be included in the average as a result of an approved leave of absence, the average shall be computed by using the three most recently completed calendar years preceding the Termination Year in  
     
  5    

which such condition did not apply.  Solely for purposes of this Plan,   Annual Cash Bonus   means any performance based, year-end cash bonus or a cash bonus in lieu of a year-end cash bonus, and the amount of any Annual Cash Bonus awarded and paid shall include any amount of such bonus voluntarily deferred by the Old Plan Participant, Top 26-100 Variable Cash and TARP restricted stock units issued to  Top 25  employees in accordance with applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, as applicable.  
     
  The   Severance Period   shall be:  
     
  (a)  For each Old Plan Participant who is a Senior Vice President or higher of the Company as of the Transition Date (or, if earlier, the date of termination), 24 months; and  
     
  (b)  For all other Old Plan Participants, one month per year of service with the Company up to a maximum of 12 months, except that (a) no Old Plan Participant shall have a Severance Period of less than six months regardless of years of service and (b) any Old Plan Participant who was also eligible to receive benefits under the American International Group, Inc. Executive Severance Plan that was terminated as of June 26, 2008 (the   Initial Plan  ) shall be entitled to a Severance Period that is no shorter than what would have been provided to such Old Plan Participant under the terms of the Initial Plan if such Old Plan Participant had been terminated on December 31, 2007.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Severance Period for an Old Plan Participant who is a Senior Vice President solely of a subsidiary of the Company (and not of American International Group, Inc.) shall be determined under this paragraph (2).  
     
  For Covered Terminations prior to January 1, 2014 (the   Transition Date  ), the Old Plan Benefit shall be paid over the number of months in the Severance Period in substantially equal weekly, biweekly, semi-monthly or monthly installments (each, a   Severance Installment  ) in accordance with the Old Plan Participant s employer s normal payroll practices.  Severance Installments paid to Old Plan Participants shall commence on a payroll date of the Old Plan Participant s employer within 60 days following the Old Plan Participant s termination of employment;  provided  that if the last day of such 60-day period ends in a calendar year after the Termination Year, then the Severance Installments shall commence in the second calendar year.  
     
  For Covered Terminations on or after the Transition Date, the Old Plan Benefit will be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Covered Termination but in no event later than sixty (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year).  
     
  Any New Plan Payment will be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Covered Termination but in no event later than (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year);  provided  that any Pro Rata Incentive will be paid when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Termination Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year) and any Prior Year Incentive will be paid when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the Termination Year).  
     
  6    

D.                                            Continued Health and Life Insurance Coverage and Participation in Retiree Health and Retiree Life for Eligible Employees   
     
  Subject to  Section IV.F , if an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to continued health insurance coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (  COBRA  ), if applicable, for a period in accordance with the requirements under COBRA;  provided ,  however , that the Eligible Employee shall be solely responsible for paying the full cost of the monthly premiums for such COBRA coverage; and  provided, further , that such coverage shall not be provided if during such period the Eligible Employee is or becomes ineligible under the provisions of COBRA for continuing coverage.  Any Eligible Employee who experiences a Covered Termination will receive one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining the Eligible Employee s eligibility to participate in any Company retiree health plan and, if eligible, may choose to participate in any such plan as of his or her date of termination at the applicable rate or pay for COBRA coverage, if applicable.  If such an Eligible Employee chooses to pay for COBRA coverage and retains such coverage for the full COBRA period, the Eligible Employee may participate in the applicable Company retiree health plan(s) following the COBRA period.  
     
  If an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee shall also be entitled to an additional lump-sum payment of $40,000 (the   Supplemental Health   Life Payment  ).  The Supplemental Health   Life Payment may, among other things, be payable towards COBRA healthcare and life insurance coverage after the Eligible Employee s date of termination.  
     
   E.                                            Additional Non-qualified Pension Credits for Eligible Employees   
     
  Subject to  Section IV.F , if an Eligible Employee experiences a Covered Termination, the Eligible Employee will receive one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining vesting and eligibility for retirement (including early retirement) under the Company s non-qualified pension plans (plans that are not intended to be qualified under the provisions of Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  )) in which such Eligible Employee was actively participating immediately prior to his or her date of termination (the   Non-Qualified Pension Plans  ).  Eligible Employees shall commence payments under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans at the time specified in the applicable plan, determined as if  Qualified Plan Retirement Income  (as defined in the applicable plan) began to be paid immediately following the Eligible Employee s date of termination.  
     
   F.                                             Transition of Old Plan Participants   
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the Plan, if an Old Plan Participant experiences a Covered Termination before the Transition Date, the Old Plan Participant shall not receive any benefits under  Sections IV.D  or  IV.E  of the Plan, and, instead, the terms of Sections IV.C through F of the Old Plan shall apply.  
     
   G.                                           Limitations on Severance; Reductions of Severance   
     
  The amounts described in  Subsections B  through  F  of this  Section IV  (collectively referred to as   Severance  ) are subject to the Eligible Employee s continued compliance  
     
  7    

with any applicable release and/or restrictive covenant agreement (referred to generically as the   Release  ) that the Company may require under other compensation arrangements, any applicable employment agreement or the release pursuant to  Section VI  below.  Failure to execute or adhere to such a Release, or the revocation of such a Release, by the Eligible Employee shall result in a forfeiture of all Severance under the Plan.  (For the avoidance of doubt, any Severance Installment or other Severance benefit due under the terms of the Plan shall be forfeited to the extent such payment would have otherwise been due but for the Eligible Employee s failure to provide the Company with a duly executed and effective Release.)  Nothing herein shall preclude the Company in its sole discretion from requiring the Eligible Employee to enter into other such releases or agreements as a condition to receiving Severance under the Plan.  
     
   H.                                           Code Section 409A   
     
  Except as provided below, payments under the Plan are intended to satisfy the  short-term deferral exception  under section 409A of the Code ( Code section 409A ).  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Old Plan Benefit payments with respect to Old Plan Participants who experience a Covered Termination prior to the Transition Date are intended to comply with Code section 409A, including any regulatory exceptions (such as the short-term deferral and separation pay exceptions) that may be applicable, and the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered accordingly.  To the extent applicable, each payment described in this paragraph shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Code section 409A and shall be made only in the event of a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code section 409A.  If an Old Plan Participant experiences a Covered Termination on or after the Transition Date due to his or her resignation for Good Reason and the Plan Administrator determines that the circumstances constituting Good Reason occurred prior to the Transition Date (and, in any event, would have constituted Good Reason under Section IV.K of the Old Plan), any Severance benefit that would otherwise be payable or due under  Section IV  of the Plan shall be paid at the time and in the form that severance benefits would have been provided under the Old Plan.  If the Plan Administrator determines that an Old Plan Participant who experiences a Covered Termination prior to the Transition Date is a  specified employee  for purposes of Code section 409A, any Severance benefit that would otherwise be payable or due under  Section IV  of the Plan shall be delayed for six months to the extent that such Severance is determined to constitute  deferred compensation  under Code section 409A.  In such case, the Old Plan Participant shall not receive such Severance benefit that is subject to the six-month delay until the first scheduled payroll date that occurs more than six months following the date of termination (the   First Payment Date  ) and, on the First Payment Date, the Company shall pay the Old Plan Participant an amount equal to the sum of the Severance benefits that would have been payable in respect of the period preceding the First Payment Date but for the delay imposed on account of Code section 409A.  
     
  The Plan Administrator (as defined in  Section VII.A ) will have full authority to give effect to the intent of this  Section VI.H .  
     
   I.                                                Covenants and for  Cause  Terminations   
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, (a) if at any time the Eligible Employee breaches any of the provisions of a Release, or revokes it, or (b) if within one year after the last payment of Severance under the Plan, the Plan Administrator  
     
  8    

determines that grounds existed, on or prior to the date of termination of the Eligible Employee s employment with the Company, including prior to the Effective Date, for the Company to terminate the Eligible Employee s employment for  Cause :  
     
  (1)  No further payments or benefits shall be due under this  Section IV ; and  
     
  (2)  The Eligible Employee shall be obligated to repay to the Company, immediately and in a cash lump sum, the amount of any Severance benefits (other than any amounts received by the Eligible Employee under  Sections IV.D ,  E  or  F ) previously received by the Eligible Employee (which shall, for the avoidance of doubt, be calculated on a pre-tax basis);  
     
   provided    that the Eligible Employee shall in all events be entitled to receive accrued wages, expense reimbursement and accrued but unused vacation pay as set forth in  Section IV.A  above.  
     
   J.                                              No Rights   
     
  Other than as provided in this  Section IV , an Eligible Employee shall have no rights to any compensation or any other benefits under the Plan.  All other benefits, if any, due to the Eligible Employee following the date of termination shall be determined in accordance with the plans, policies and practices of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company in effect on the date of termination. Whether the Eligible Employee s employment has terminated for purposes of any Company plan or arrangement shall be determined on the basis of the applicable terms of the plan or arrangement.  
     
   K.                                           Non U.S. Participants   
     
  To the extent the Local Laws of a country or non-U.S. jurisdiction in which an Eligible Employee works would prohibit any provision, feature or requirement of the Plan, or such Local Laws, an applicable collective bargaining of similar collective agreement, the determination of a court or other adjudicative body or an Eligible Employee s contract of employment would require that the benefits provided under the Plan be duplicative of or in addition to other Company or subsidiary or employer provided or paid  severance benefits or termination-related benefits to which such Eligible Employee is entitled,  the CMRC hereby delegates to the International ESP Committee the responsibility to develop a written appendix to the Plan specific to such country or non-U.S. jurisdiction that addresses the problematic provision, feature or requirement while maintaining as much of the intent and goals of the Plan as possible and also complying with Local Laws.  The International ESP Committee will share such appendix with all Eligible Employees in such country or non-U.S. jurisdiction, and with the Claims Administrator, and will maintain an inventory of all such appendices.  The International ESP Committee shall periodically consult with local counsel in such country or non-U.S. jurisdiction to confirm that such appendices remain permissible, enforceable, and in accordance with Local Law.  The International ESP Committee shall be comprised of the Company s most senior executive whose responsibility it is to oversee both the Corporate Compensation Department and the Corporate Benefits Department (who shall be the Chairman of the International ESP Committee); and the Chairman shall appoint no less than two and no more than four qualified executives from among the Company s human resources executives and human resources attorneys to be members of the International ESP Committee with him.  To the extent the position described in first clause of the sentence immediately above is vacant,  
     
  9    

the Chairman of the International ESP Committee shall be the executive described in the first paragraph of Section IX of the Plan.  
     
   V.                                            No Duplication; No Mitigation   
     
   A.                    No Duplication   
     
  The Plan is not intended to, and shall not result in any duplication of payments or benefits to any Eligible Employee.  The Compensation Committee shall be authorized to interpret the Plan to give effect to the preceding sentence.  
     
   B.                    No Mitigation   
     
  In order for an Eligible Employee to receive the Severance described in the Plan, the Eligible Employee shall be under no obligation to seek other employment or otherwise mitigate the obligations of the Company under the Plan, and there shall be no offset against any amounts due under the Plan on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that the Eligible Employee may obtain.  
     
   VI.                                       Release and Restrictive Covenant Agreement   
     
  Subject to  Sections IV.G  and  H  above, the Company may require and condition payment of the Severance on the Eligible Employee s execution of a Release in the form attached to the Plan as  Exhibit A , as such Release may be modified by the General Counsel of the Company or his or her designee;  provided ,  however , that such Release must be executed within 60 days after the date of termination;  provided ,  further , that if the Local Laws of a country or non-U.S. jurisdiction in which an Eligible Employee works would not permit all or a portion of the Release to be structured or executed in the form attached hereto, the General Counsel of the Company or his or her designee shall have the discretion to create a release that incorporates as much of the Release as possible while also complying with such Local Laws.  
     
   VII.                                  Plan Administration   
     
   A.                    Compensation Committee   
     
  The Plan shall be interpreted, administered and operated by the Compensation Committee, which shall have the complete authority, in its sole discretion, subject to the express provisions of the Plan, to interpret the Plan, adopt any rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan as may be appropriate and decide any and all matters and make any and all determinations arising under or otherwise necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  All interpretations and decisions by the Compensation Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties affected thereby, and shall supersede any decisions or actions by the  Claims Administrator  (as defined below).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee shall have the right to delegate to any individual member of the Compensation Committee or to any executive of the Company any of the Compensation Committee s authority under the Plan;  provided ,  that  no person shall act as Plan Administrator in any matter directly relating to his or her eligibility or amount of Severance under the Plan.  The Compensation Committee and/or the member of the Compensation Committee or the executive of the Company delegated any authority under the Plan shall be referred to in the Plan as the   Plan Administrator .   
     
  10    

B.                    Expenses and Liabilities   
     
  All expenses and liabilities that the Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator incur in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Company.  The Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, appraisers, brokers or other persons in connection with such administration, and the Plan Administrator, the Claims Administrator, the Company and the Company s officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of any such persons.  No member of the Compensation Committee or any executive delegated by the Compensation Committee as Plan Administrator, or the Claims Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and all members of the Compensation Committee and any executive delegated by the Compensation Committee as the Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator shall be fully protected by the Company in respect of any such action, determination or interpretation to the extent permitted by (a) the Company s charter; (b) the Company s bylaws and (c) applicable law.  
     
   VIII.                             Termination and Amendment   
     
   A.                    Termination   
     
  The Compensation Committee may terminate the Plan in accordance with  Section II  of the Plan,  provided  that no termination shall adversely affect the payments or benefits to which any Eligible Employee has become entitled by virtue of a Covered Termination occurring before the time of termination of the Plan.  Any notice of termination shall be in accordance with  Section VIII.C  below.  
     
   B.                    Amendment   
     
  The Compensation Committee may amend the Plan in any manner,  provided  that, in the event an amendment is determined by the Compensation Committee to be, in the aggregate, material and adverse to an Eligible Employee (taking into account any aspects of such amendments that are beneficial to the Eligible Employee), the Compensation Committee shall provide 12 months  notice to such Eligible Employee in accordance with  Section VIII.C  below (and no such change shall be effective before the second anniversary of the Effective Date).  In addition, the Compensation Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any manner it determines in good faith is necessary or appropriate (1) to comply with applicable law or (2) to comply with Code section 409A.  Any notice of amendment shall be in accordance with  Section VIII.C  below.  
     
  For the avoidance of doubt, amendments under the preceding sentence may be material and adverse to Eligible Employees.  In addition, if an employee was not an Eligible Employee because he or she had an employment agreement (or other agreement or arrangement) that contemplated payment of severance with respect to any termination, the Compensation Committee may amend the Plan to exclude such employee without notice to such employee (notwithstanding the expiration of such agreement or arrangement) if it determines that in good faith that such exclusion is necessary to comply with Code section 409A.  
     
  11    

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee s rights and powers to amend the Plan shall be delegated to individuals holding the positions of Executive Vice President Human Resources (or, in the event no individual with such a title is employed by the Company, then the most senior Human Resources overseeing the entire global Human Resource Function of the Company) and Vice President Global Compensation and Benefits (or, in the event no individual with such a title is employed by the Company, then the most senior  executive overseeing the Company s Compensation and Benefits Function), each of which, individually, has the right to amend the Plan with respect to (i) amendments required by relevant law, regulation or ruling, (ii) amendments that are not expected to have a material financial impact on the Company, (iii) amendments that can reasonably be characterized as technical or ministerial in nature, or (iv) amendments that have previously been approved in concept by the Compensation Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing delegation, the positions noted above shall not have the power to make an amendment to the Plan that could reasonably be expected to result in a termination of the Plan or a change in the structure or the powers, duties or responsibilities of the Compensation Committee, unless such amendment is approved or ratified by the Compensation Committee  
     
   C.                    Notice of Termination or Amendment   
     
  The Company shall be deemed to have provided any notice required by this  Section VIII  if the Company makes a reasonable, good faith effort to email or otherwise contact all Eligible Employees.  For the avoidance of doubt, notice shall be deemed to have been validly delivered to every Eligible Employee notwithstanding that certain individual Eligible Employees do not receive actual notice, if the Company makes reasonable, good faith efforts as provided in the preceding sentence.  
     
   IX.                                      Claims and Appeals Procedures   
     
  The following claim review and claim appeal procedures apply to all claims of any nature related to the Plan.  For purposes of the Plan, the  Claims Administrator  is the Company s most senior executive whose responsibility it is to oversee both the Corporate Compensation Department and the Corporate Benefits Department;  provided however , if that aforementioned position is vacant, then the Company s senior most executive whose responsibility it is to oversee all Human Resources matters of the Company on a global basis shall be the Claims Administrator and if both of the immediately aforementioned positions are vacant, then the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall appoint an individual to be the Claims Administrator.  The Claims Administrator, in his or her discretion, may delegate in writing the Claims Administrator responsibilities to a committee comprised of three individuals selected from among the human resources executives and human resources attorneys of the Company, who shall act as Claims Administrator.  
     
   A.                    Initial Claim   
     
  To the extent that an Eligible Employee believes that he or she is entitled to a benefit under the Plan that such Eligible Employee has not received, such Eligible Employee may file a claim for benefits under the Plan, as provided in this  Section IX  of the Plan.  
     
  1.                   Procedure for Filing a Claim   
     
  12    

An Eligible Employee must submit a claim in writing on the appropriate claim form (or in such other manner acceptable to the Claims Administrator), along with any supporting comments, documents, records and other information, to the Claims Administrator in person or by messenger.  
     
  If an Eligible Employee fails to properly file a claim for a benefit under the Plan, the Eligible Employee shall be considered not to have exhausted all administrative remedies under the Plan, and shall not be able to bring any legal action for the benefit.  Claims and appeals of denied claims may be pursued by an Eligible Employee, or if approved by the Claims Administrator, by an Eligible Employee s authorized representative.  
     
  2.                   Initial Claim Review   
     
  The Claims Administrator shall conduct the initial claim review.  The Claims Administrator shall consider the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan and amendments to the Plan, and any information and evidence presented by the Eligible Employee and any other relevant information.  
     
  3.                   Initial Benefit Determination   
     
  (a)              Timing of Notification on Initial Claim   
     
  The Claims Administrator shall notify an Eligible Employee about his or her claim within a reasonable period of time, but, in any event, within 90 days after the Plan Administrator or Claims Administrator, as the case may be, receives the Eligible Employee s claim, unless the Claims Administrator determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim.  If the Claims Administrator determines that an extension is needed, the Eligible Employee shall be notified before the end of the initial 90-day period.  The notification shall say what special circumstances require an extension of time.  The Eligible Employee shall be told the date by which the Claims Administrator expects to render the determination, which in any event shall be within 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period.  
     
  If such an extension is necessary because an Eligible Employee did not submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the time period in which the Plan Administrator is required to make a decision shall be frozen from the date on which the notification is sent to the Eligible Employee until the Eligible Employee responds to the request for additional information.  If the Eligible Employee fails to provide the necessary information in a reasonable period of time, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, decide the Eligible Employee s claim based on the information already provided.  
     
  (b)                                      Manner and Content of Notification of Denied Claim   
     
  In the event the Claims Administrator denies an Eligible Employee s claim for benefits, the Claims Administrator shall provide an Eligible Employee with written or electronic notice of any denial, in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations.  The notification shall include:  
     
  (i)  The specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
     
  (ii)  Reference to the specific provision(s) of the Plan on which the determination is based;  
     
  13    

(iii)  A description of any additional material or information necessary for an Eligible Employee to revise the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and  
     
  (iv)  A description of the Plan s review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures.  
     
  4.                   Claims Processing   
     
  In the event the Claims Administrator approves an Eligible Employee s claim for benefits, the Claims Administrator shall provide the Release that the Eligible Employee must sign pursuant Section VI of the Plan, and shall coordinate with the applicable Company payroll department, the Company benefits department, and any other Company entity or counsel as necessary to implement the terms of  Section IV  of the Plan.  
     
   B.                    Review of Initial Benefit Denial   
     
  1.                   Procedure for Filing an Appeal of a Denial   
     
  Any appeal of a denial must be delivered to the Plan Administrator within 60 days after an Eligible Employee receives notice of denial.  Failure to appeal within the 60-day period shall be considered a failure to exhaust all administrative remedies under the Plan and shall make an Eligible Employee unable to bring a legal action to recover a benefit under the Plan.  An Eligible Employee s appeal must be in writing, using the appropriate form provided by the Plan Administrator (or in such other manner acceptable to the Plan Administrator).  The request for an appeal must be filed with the Plan Administrator in person or by messenger, in either case, evidenced by written receipt or by first-class postage-paid mail and return receipt requested, to the Plan Administrator.  
     
  2.                   Review Procedures for Denials   
     
  The Plan Administrator shall provide a review that takes into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by an Eligible Employee without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  An Eligible Employee shall have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim and shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all relevant documents.  
     
  3.                   Timing of Notification of Benefit Determination on Review   
     
  The Plan Administrator shall notify an Eligible Employee of the Plan Administrator s decision within a reasonable period of time, but in any event within 60 days after the Plan Administrator receives the Eligible Employee s request for review, unless the Plan Administrator determines that special circumstances require more time for processing the review of the adverse benefit determination.  
     
  If the Plan Administrator determines that an extension is required, the Plan Administrator shall tell an Eligible Employee in writing before the end of the initial 60-day period.  The Plan Administrator shall tell the Eligible Employee the special circumstances that require an extension of time, and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to  
     
  14    

render the determination on review, which in any event shall be within 60 days from the end of the initial 60-day period.  
     
  If such an extension is necessary because an Eligible Employee did not submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the time period in which the Plan Administrator is required to make a decision shall be frozen from the date on which the notification is sent to the Eligible Employee until the Eligible Employee responds to the request for additional information.  If the Eligible Employee fails to provide the necessary information in a reasonable period of time, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, decide the Eligible Employee s claim based on the information already provided.  
     
  4.                   Manner and Content of Notification of Benefit Determination on Review   
     
  The Plan Administrator shall provide a notice of the Plan s benefit determination on review, in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Labor regulations.  If an Eligible Employee s appeal is denied, the notification shall include:  
     
  (a)  The specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
     
  (b)  Reference to the specific provision(s) of the Plan on which the determination is based; and  
     
  (c)  A statement that the Eligible Employee is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all relevant documents.  
     
  If an Eligible Employee s appeal is approved, the Plan Administrator shall forward the claim to the Claims Administrator for processing in accordance with  Section IX.A.4  above.  
     
   C.                    Legal Action   
     
  An Eligible Employee cannot bring any action to recover any benefit under the Plan if the Eligible Employee does not file a valid claim for a benefit and seek timely review of a denial of that claim.  
     
   X.                                           Withholding Taxes   
     
  The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan such federal, state, local or other taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.  
     
   XI.                                      Miscellaneous   
     
   A.                    No Effect on Other Benefits   
     
  Any Severance received by an Eligible Employee under the Plan shall not be counted as compensation for purposes of determining benefits under other benefit plans, programs, policies and agreements, except to the extent expressly provided therein or in the Plan.  With respect to any benefit plan, program, policy or agreement that takes into account only base salary as relevant compensation, only the portion of such Severance that is payable on account of annual base salary as of the date of termination as  
     
  15    

calculated in  Section IV.B.1  shall be taken into account for purposes of such benefit plan, program, policy or agreement.  
     
   B.                    Unfunded Obligation   
     
  Any Severance and benefits provided under the Plan shall constitute an unfunded obligation of the Company.  Severance and other benefits paid under the Plan will be made, when due, entirely by the Company from its general assets.  The Plan shall constitute solely an unsecured promise by the Company to provide Severance to Eligible Employees to the extent provided herein.  For the avoidance of doubt, any pension, health or life insurance benefits to which an Eligible Employee may be entitled under the Plan shall be provided under other applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.  The Plan does not provide the substantive benefits under such other employee benefit plans, and nothing in the Plan shall restrict the Company s ability to amend, modify or terminate such other employee benefit plans.  
     
   C.                    Employment Status   
     
  The Plan does not create an employment relationship between any Eligible Employee and the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  The Plan is not a contract of employment, is not part of a contract of employment (unless such contract explicitly incorporates the Plan into such contract), does not guarantee the Eligible Employee employment for any specified period and does not limit the right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate the employment of the Eligible Employee at any time for any reason or no reason or to change the status of any Eligible Employee s employment or to change any employment policies.  
     
   D.                    Section Headings   
     
  The section headings contained in the Plan are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not in any way affect the meaning of any provision of the Plan.  
     
   E.                    Governing Law   
     
  It is intended that the Plan be an  employee welfare benefit plan  within the meaning of Section 3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) maintained for the purpose of providing benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, and the Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with such intent.  The Plan Administrator shall provide any documents relating to the Plan to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor upon request.  The Plan and all rights under the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA, and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, with the laws of the State of New York.  The Plan shall also be subject to all applicable non-U.S. laws as to Eligible Employees located outside of the United States.  
     
  In the event that any provision of the Plan is not permitted by the Local Laws, of a country or jurisdiction in which an Eligible Employee works, such Local Law shall supersede or modify (as applicable) that provision of the Plan with respect to that Eligible Employee.  
     
  16    

F.                     Assignment   
     
  The Plan shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by an Eligible Employee s personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If an Eligible Employee should die while any amount is still payable to the Eligible Employee under the Plan had the Eligible Employee continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan, or as determined by the Compensation Committee, to the Eligible Employee s estate.  An Eligible Employee s rights under the Plan shall not otherwise be transferable or subject to lien or attachment.  
     
  17    

Glossary of Terms   
     
    Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.  
     
    Cause   shall mean (i) the Eligible Employee s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) the Eligible Employee s engagement in any conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) the Eligible Employee s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; or (iv) the Eligible Employee s material violation of the Company s codes or conduct or any other Company policy as in effect from time to time.  The Determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.  The Plan Administrator shall also have the authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences of the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting Cause.  
     
    Change in Control   shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:  
     
  (1)  Individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the   Incumbent Directors  ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board,  provided  that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director;  provided ,  however , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;  
     
  (2)  Any  person  (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), is or becomes a  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (  Company Voting Securities    provided ,  however , that the event described in this paragraph (2) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control by virtue of an acquisition of Company Voting Securities:  (A) by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (B) by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or (C) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities;  
     
  (3)  The consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company (a   Business   
     
  1    

Combination    ) that results in any person (other than the United States Department of Treasury) becoming the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination;  
     
  (4) The consummation of a sale of all of substantially all of the Company s assets (other than to an affiliate of the Company); or  
     
  (5)  The Company s stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding;  provided  that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control shall then occur.  
     
    Disability   shall mean a period of medically determined physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for a period of not less than 12 months during which the Eligible Employee qualifies for income replacement benefits under the Eligible Employee s employer s long-term disability plan for at least 3 months, or, if the Eligible Employee does not participate in such a plan, a period of disability during which the Eligible Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determined physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.  
     
    Exchange Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.  
     
    Good Reason   shall mean, in the absence of written consent of the Eligible Employee, a reduction of more than twenty percent (20%) in the Eligible Employee s annual target direct compensation (including annual base salary, short-term incentive opportunity and long-term incentive opportunity);  provided  that such reduction will not constitute Good Reason if it results from a Board-approved program generally applicable to similarly-situated employees;  provided ,  further , that prior to the Transition Date, for Old Plan Participants, Good Reason shall have the meaning given in  Section IV.K  the Old Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination for Good Reason shall not have occurred unless (a) the Eligible Employee gives written notice to the Company of termination of employment within 30 days after the Eligible Employee first becomes aware of the occurrence of the circumstances constituting Good Reason, specifying in detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and the Company has failed within 30 days after receipt of such notice to cure the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and (b) the Eligible Employee s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Code section 409A) occurs no later than two years following the initial existence of the circumstances giving rise to Good Reason.  
     
  2    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   
   RELEASE AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AGREEMENT   
     
  This Release and Restrictive Covenant Agreement (the   Agreement  ) is entered into by and between                                                    (the   Employee  ) and American International Group, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (the   Company  ).  
     
  Each term defined in the American International Group, Inc. 2012 Executive Severance Plan (the   Plan  ) has the same meaning when used in this Agreement.  
     
  In addition, each term defined in the American International Group, Inc. Executive Severance Plan (the   Old Plan  ) has the same meaning when used in sections of this Agreement discussing the Old Plan.  
     
   I.                                                Termination of Employment   
     
  The Employee s employment with the Company and each of its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates (collectively   AIG  ) shall terminate on                                (the   Termination Date  ) and, as of that date, the Employee shall cease performing the Employee s employment duties and responsibilities for AIG and shall no longer report to work for AIG.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term  controlled affiliates  means an entity of which the Company directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares.  
     
   II.                                           Severance   
     
    [Non Grandfathered (Newly Eligible) Participants]    
     
   [   T  he Employee shall receive a lump sum severance payment in the gross amount of $                              , less applicable tax and benefit withholdings paid out in a lump sum as soon as practicable but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the Termination Date (and in any event by March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year in accordance with  Section IV.B(2)  of the Plan.  The Employee shall also receive a prorated annual short-term incentive bonus for the Termination Year calculated in accordance with  Section IV.B(1)(b)  of the Plan and payable when such incentives are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year).  [ The Employee shall also receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus for the Prior Year if such bonus has not been paid as of the date of termination calculated in accordance with  Section IV.B.(1)(a) of the Plan  and payable when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the Termination Year). ]   
     
    [Grandfathered, Old Plan Participants]    
     
   [ If Terminated After the Transition Date ]    T  he Employee shall receive a lump sum severance payment in the gross amount of $                              , less applicable tax and benefit withholdings paid out in a lump sum as soon as practicable but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the Termination Date (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the year immediately following the Termination Year) in accordance with  Section IV.C  of the Plan.  
     
  A-1    

[If Terminated Prior to the Transition Date]     The Employee shall receive Severance Installments in the gross amount of $                              , less applicable tax and benefit withholdings paid out over                  months (in substantially equal weekly, biweekly, or monthly installments) in accordance with  Section IV.C  of the Plan, and Section IV.B of the Old Plan, and the Company s normal payroll practices.  The Severance Period (as defined in the Old Plan) shall end on                                         , 201     (the   Severance End Date  ).  Solely for purposes of the AIG Retirement Plan and any life insurance benefits provided pursuant to  Section IV.F  of the Plan and Section IV.F. of the Old Plan, only that portion ($                    ) of the Severance Installments that is equal to the Employee s regular salary installments at the time of the Termination Date shall be treated as  salary  (the remainder, $                       shall be treated as non-salary).  
     
    [Regardless of whether Termination occurs before or after Transition Date]    
     
    [ If Participant is Grade 27+: If dollar amount of severance is greater under new ESP formula than under old ESP formula     The Employee shall also receive a New Plan Payment, if any, in accordance with  Section IV.C . of the Plan in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Termination Date but in no event later than (60) days thereafter (and in any event by March 15th of the Termination Year).]  [  If terminated after March 31      st      The Employee shall also receive a prorated annual short-term incentive bonus for the Termination Year calculated in accordance with  Section IV.B(1)(b)  of the Plan and payable when such incentives are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of the Termination Year).] [  If annual short-term bonus for prior year has not been paid as of the date of termination   The Employee shall also receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the Employee s annual short-term incentive bonus for the Prior Year calculated in accordance with Section IV.B. (1)(a) of the Plan and payable when annual short-term incentive bonuses for the Prior Year are regularly paid to similarly-situated active employees (but in no event later than March 15  th   of Termination Year.] ]   
     
  The Employee shall also be paid accrued wages, reimbursed expenses, and                  days of accrued, unused paid time off ( PTO ) as of the Termination Date.  The Employee shall not accrue any PTO after the Termination Date.  
     
   III.                                      Other Benefits   
     
  Nothing in this Agreement modifies or affects any of the terms of any benefit plans or programs (defined as medical, life, pension and 401(k) plans or programs and including, without limitation, the Company s right to alter the terms of such plans or programs).  No further deductions or employer matching contributions shall be made on behalf of the Employee to the Incentive Savings Plan (  ISP  ) as of the last day of the pay period in which the Termination Date occurs.  
     
  The Employee shall no longer participate or be eligible for coverage under the Short-Term and Long-Term Disability programs, and the ISP.  After the Termination Date, the Employee may decide, under the ISP, whether to elect a rollover or distribution of the Employee s account balance or to keep the account balance in the ISP.  [To the extent the Employee has amounts that remain deferred under the Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan (  SISP  ) or the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (  EDCP  ) as of the Termination Date, a distribution because of termination of employment of the Employee s account balance under the SISP and EDCP will be paid after Termination Date pursuant to the terms of the SISP and EDCP. ] The Employee shall not accrue vacation after the Termination Date.  
     
  A-2    

[At all times, for Newly Eligible Non-Grandfathered Participants, and after the Transition Date, for all Participants]    
     
   [   As set forth in  Section IV.D  of the Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to continued health insurance coverage under COBRA for a period in accordance with the requirements under COBRA unless the Employee is or becomes ineligible under the provisions of COBRA for continuing coverage.  The Employee shall be solely responsible for paying the full cost of the monthly premiums for COBRA coverage.  In addition, the Employee shall be entitled to one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining the Employee s eligibility to participate in any Company Retiree Medical program and, if eligible, may choose to participate in such Company Retiree Medical program as of the Termination Date at the applicable rate or pay for COBRA coverage.  If the Employee chooses to pay for COBRA coverage and retains such coverage for the full COBRA period, the Employee may participate in the Company Retiree Medical program following the COBRA period.  The Employee shall also be entitled to a Supplemental Health   Life Payment of $40,000 which may, among other things, be payable towards COBRA and life insurance coverage after the Termination Date.  
     
  As set forth in  Section IV.E  of the Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to one (1) year of additional service credit and credit for additional age solely for purposes of determining vesting and eligibility for retirement (including early retirement) under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans.  Any payments under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans shall commence at the time specified in the applicable plan, determined as if  Qualified Plan Retirement Income  (as defined in the applicable plan) began to be paid immediately following the Termination Date.  
     
  Except as set forth in this Agreement and Sections IV.D and E of the Plan there are no other payments or benefits due to the Employee from the Company.  The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company has made no representations to the Employee as to the applicability of Code section 409A to any of the payments or benefits provided to the Employee pursuant to the Plan or this Agreement.] ]   
     
    [For Grandfathered Participants Prior to the Transition Date]    
     
   [   In accordance with Section IV.F. of the Plan and as set forth in Section IV.C. of the Old Plan, the Employee s Severance Period shall be treated as continued employment for the purpose of outstanding Senior Partners Units (  SPUs  ) that are earned but unvested under the Senior Partners Plan, and options, if any, in each case that would otherwise have vested or become exercisable during the Severance Period had the Employee s employment not terminated.  
     
   [   In accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan, and as set forth in Section IV.D of the Old Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to participate during the Severance Period in the applicable Company-provided health plans for active employees in which the Employee participated prior to termination by paying on an after-tax basis the applicable employee contribution charged to active employees receiving similar coverage.  If the Employee participates in such plan, the actuarial cost of such coverage in excess of the applicable employee contribution paid by the Employee, as determined by the Company, shall be imputed as taxable income to the Employee.  The Employee agrees that the Employee shall provide promptly to the Claims Administrator or his or her designee, as applicable, without request, all information known to the Employee that may be applicable to, and all other  
     
  A-3    

information the Company may reasonably request for purposes of, determining the Employee s eligibility for continuing active employee health coverage.  
     
  In addition, in accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan and as set forth in Section IV.D of the Old Plan, the Severance Period shall be treated as a period of employment service (in connection with both the age and service requirements) for purposes of determining the Employee s eligibility to participate in, and to calculate the amount of the Company contribution towards, any Company retiree health plan.  For these purposes, the Employee s deemed period of employment service shall end as of the last day of the Severance Period.  If the Employee would not have satisfied the eligibility requirements to participate in any Company retiree health plan but for the treatment of the Severance Period as a period of employment service, the actuarial cost of such retiree health coverage in excess of any contribution paid by the Employee, as determined by the Company, shall be imputed as income for all periods in which such retiree health coverage is provided. ]   
     
  In accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan, and as set forth in Section IV.E of the Old Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to additional service credit and credit for additional age, in each case in an amount equal to the length of the Severance Period, for purposes of calculating the Employee s benefit amounts, and determining vesting and eligibility for retirement (including early retirement), under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans.  For the avoidance of doubt, Severance Installments shall not be included in the calculation of any of the Employee s benefits under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans.  Any payments under the Non-Qualified Pension Plans shall commence at the time specified in the applicable plan, determined as if  Qualified Plan Retirement Income  (as defined in the applicable plan) began to be paid immediately following the Termination Date.  
     
  In accordance with  Section IV.F  of the Plan, and as set forth in Section IV.F of the Old Plan, the Employee shall be entitled to participate during the Severance Period in the group life insurance benefits generally available to active employees of the Company.  The Employee shall be required to pay the costs of such coverage on the same basis as prior to the date of termination.  Any portion of the premium paid by the Company shall be imputed as taxable income to the Employee.  
     
  The Employee will continue to participate in and accrue benefits in the AIG Retirement Plan through the Severance End Date.  The AIG Retirement Plan deems an Employee on severance payroll continuation to be a participant in the Plan.  If the Employee is vested and has the age and service to commence a benefit, benefits under the AIG Retirement Plan may commence after the last day on payroll. ]   
     
  Except as set forth in this Agreement and  Sections IV.C  through  F  of the Old Plan, and Section IV.F of the Plan there are no other payments or benefits due to the Employee from the Company.  The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company has made no representations to the Employee as to the applicability of Code section 409A to any of the payments or benefits provided to the Employee pursuant to the Plan or this Agreement.]  
     
   IV.                                       Release of Claims   
     
  In consideration of the payments and benefits described in  Section IV  of the Plan and Section II and II of this Agreement, to which the Employee agrees the Employee is not entitled until and unless the Employee executes this Agreement, the Employee, for and on behalf of the Employee and the Employee s heirs and assigns, subject to the following two  
     
  A-4    

sentences hereof, agrees to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and hereby waives and releases any common law, statutory or other complaints, claims, charges or causes of action of any kind whatsoever, both known and unknown, in law or in equity, which the Employee ever had, now has or may have against AIG and its shareholders (other than C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. and Starr International Company, Inc.), successors, assigns, directors, officers, partners, members, employees, agents or the Plan (collectively, the   Releasees  ), including, without limitation, any complaint, charge or cause of action arising under federal, state or local laws pertaining to employment, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (  ADEA ,  a law which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age), the National Labor Relations Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, all as amended; and all other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations.  By signing this Agreement, the Employee acknowledges that the Employee intends to waive and release any rights known or unknown that the Employee may have against the Releasees under these and any other laws;  provided that  the Employee does not waive or release claims with respect to the right to enforce the Employee s rights under this Agreement or with respect to any rights to indemnification under the Company s Charter and by-laws  [or other document if not an AIG employee or officer]  (the  Unreleased Claims ).  In addition, the Employee waives any claim to reinstatement or re-employment with AIG, the Employee shall not seek or accept employment with AIG after the Termination Date and the Employee agrees not to bring any claim based upon the failure or refusal of AIG to employ the Employee hereafter.  
     
   V.                                            Proceedings   
     
  The Employee acknowledges that the Employee has not filed any complaint, charge, claim or proceeding, except with respect to an Unreleased Claim, if any, against any of the Releasees before any local, state or federal agency, court or other body (each individually a  Proceeding ).  The Employee represents that the Employee is not aware of any basis on which such a Proceeding could reasonably be instituted.  By signing this Agreement the Employee:  
     
  (a)  Acknowledges that the Employee shall not initiate or cause to be initiated on his behalf any Proceeding and shall not participate in any Proceeding, in each case, except as required by law;  
     
  (b)  Waives any right he may have to benefit in any manner from any relief (whether monetary or otherwise) arising out of any Proceeding, including any Proceeding conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ( EEOC  and  
     
  (c)  Acknowledges that the Employee shall be limiting the availability of certain remedies that the Employee may have against AIG and limiting also the Employee s ability to pursue certain claims against the Releasees.  
     
  Notwithstanding the above, nothing in  Section V  of this Agreement shall prevent the Employee from:  
     
  (x)  Initiating or causing to be initiated on his or her behalf any complaint, charge, claim or proceeding against the Company before any local, state or federal agency, court or other body challenging the validity of the waiver of his or her claims under the ADEA contained in  Section IV  of this Agreement (but no other portion of such waiver), or  
     
  A-5    

(y)  Initiating or participating in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the EEOC.  
     
   VI.                                       Time to Consider   
     
  The payments and benefits payable to the Employee under this Agreement include consideration provided to the Employee over and above anything of value to which the Employee already is entitled.  The Employee acknowledges that the Employee has been advised that the Employee has 21 days from the date of the Employee s receipt of this Agreement to consider all the provisions of this Agreement.  
     
  THE EMPLOYEE FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE EMPLOYEE HAS READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY, HAS BEEN ADVISED BY THE COMPANY TO, CONSULT AN ATTORNEY, AND FULLY UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING BELOW THE EMPLOYEE IS GIVING UP CERTAIN RIGHTS WHICH THE EMPLOYEE MAY HAVE TO SUE OR ASSERT A CLAIM AGAINST ANY OF THE RELEASEES, AS DESCRIBED IN SECTION IV OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER PROVISIONS HEREOF. THE EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE EMPLOYEE HAS NOT BEEN FORCED OR PRESSURED IN ANY MANNER WHATSOEVER TO SIGN THIS AGREEMENT, AND THE EMPLOYEE AGREES TO ALL OF ITS TERMS VOLUNTARILY.  
     
   VII.                                  Revocation   
     
  The Employee hereby acknowledges and understands that the Employee shall have seven days from the date of the Employee s execution of this Agreement to revoke this Agreement (including, without limitation, any and all claims arising under the ADEA) by providing written notice of revocation delivered to the General Counsel of the Company no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh day after the Employee has signed the Agreement.  Neither the Company nor any other person is obligated to provide any benefits to the Employee pursuant to  Section IV  of the Plan until eight days have passed since the Employee s signing of this Agreement without the Employee having revoked this Agreement.  If the Employee revokes this Agreement pursuant to this Section, the Employee shall be deemed not to have accepted the terms of this Agreement, and no action shall be required of AIG under any section of this Agreement.  
     
   VIII.                             No Admission   
     
  This Agreement does not constitute an admission of liability or wrongdoing of any kind by the Employee or AIG.  
     
   IX.                                      Restrictive Covenants   
     
   A.                    Non-Solicitation/Non-Competition   
     
  The Employee acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the businesses of AIG and accordingly agrees as follows:  
     
  1.  During the period commencing on the Employee s Termination Date and ending on the one-year anniversary of such date (the   Restricted Period  ), the Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, without AIG s written consent, hire, solicit or encourage to cease to work with AIG or any employee, consultant or agent of AIG.  
     
  A-6    

2.  During the period commencing on the Employee s Termination Date and ending on the six-month anniversary of such date, the Employee shall not, directly or indirectly:  
     
  (a)  Engage in any   Competitive Business   (defined below) for the Employee s own account;  
     
  (b)  Enter the employ of, or render any services to, any person engaged in any Competitive Business;  
     
  (c)  Acquire a financial interest in, or otherwise become actively involved with, any person engaged in any Competitive Business, directly or indirectly, as an individual, partner, shareholder, officer, director, principal, agent, trustee or consultant; or  
     
  (d)  Interfere with business relationships between AIG and customers or suppliers of, or consultants to AIG.  
     
  3. For purposes of this Section IX, a  Competitive Business  means, as of any date, including during the Restricted Period, any person or entity (including any joint venture, partnership, firm, corporation or limited liability company) that engages in or proposes to engage in the following activities in any geographical area in which AIG does such business:  
     
  (a)  The property and casualty insurance business, including commercial insurance, business insurance, personal insurance and specialty insurance;  
     
  (b)  The life and accident and health insurance business;  
     
  (c)  The underwriting, reinsurance, marketing or sale of (y) any form of insurance of any kind that AIG as of such date does, or proposes to, underwrite, reinsure, market or sell (any such form of insurance, an  AIG Insurance Product ), or (z) any other form of insurance that is marketed or sold in competition with any AIG Insurance Product;  
     
  (d)  The investment and financial services business, including retirement services and mutual funds services; or  
     
  (e)  Any other business that as of such date is a direct and material competitor of one of AIG s businesses.  
     
  4.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Employee may directly or indirectly, own, solely as an investment, securities of any person engaged in the business of AIG which are publicly traded on a national or regional stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market if the Employee (a) is not a controlling person of, or a member of a group which controls, such person and (b) does not, directly or indirectly, own one percent or more of any class of securities of such person.  
     
  5.  The Employee understands that the provisions of this  Section IX.A  may limit the Employee s ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of AIG but the Employee nevertheless agrees and hereby acknowledges that:  
     
  (a)  Such provisions do not impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interests of AIG;  
     
  A-7    

(b)  Such provisions contain reasonable limitations as to time and scope of activity to be restrained;  
     
  (c)  Such provisions are not harmful to the general public; and  
     
  (d)  Such provisions are not unduly burdensome to the Employee.  In consideration of the foregoing and in light of the Employee s education, skills and abilities, the Employee agrees that he shall not assert that, and it should not be considered that, any provisions of  Section IX.A  otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable.  
     
  6.  It is expressly understood and agreed that, although the Employee and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this  Section IX.A  to be reasonable, if a judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this  Section IX.A  or elsewhere in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against the Employee, the provisions of the Agreement shall not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.  Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.  
     
   B.                    Nondisparagement   
     
  The Employee agrees (whether during or after the Employee s employment with AIG) not to issue, circulate, publish or utter any false or disparaging statements, remarks or rumors about AIG or the officers, directors or managers of AIG other than to the extent reasonably necessary in order to (a) assert a bona fide claim against AIG arising out of the Employee s employment with AIG, or (b) respond in a truthful and appropriate manner to any legal process or give truthful and appropriate testimony in a legal or regulatory proceeding.  
     
   C.                    Code of Conduct   
     
  The Employee agrees to abide by all of the terms of the Company s Code of Conduct or the Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that continue to apply after termination of employment.  
     
   D.                    Confidentiality/Company Property   
     
  The Employee acknowledges that the disclosure of this Agreement or any of the terms hereof could prejudice AIG and would be detrimental to AIG s continuing relationship with its employees.  Accordingly, the Employee agrees not to discuss or divulge either the existence or contents of this Agreement to anyone other than the Employee s immediate family, attorneys or tax advisors, and further agrees to use the Employee s best efforts to ensure that none of those individuals will reveal its existence or contents to anyone else.  The Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of AIG, use, divulge, disclose or make accessible to any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity, any  Confidential Information  (as defined below), or any  Personal Information  (as defined below);  provided  that the Employee may disclose Confidential Information, Personal Information or information about the existence or  
     
  A-8    

content of this Agreement when required to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction, by any governmental agency having supervisory authority over the business of AIG, as the case may be, or by any administrative body or legislative body (including a committee thereof) with jurisdiction to order the Employee to divulge, disclose or make accessible such information;  provided ,  further ,  that  in the event that the Employee is ordered by a court or other government agency to disclose any Confidential Information or Personal Information, the Employee shall:  
     
  (a) Promptly notify AIG of such order;  
     
  (b)  At the written request of AIG, diligently contest such order at the sole expense of AIG; and  
     
  (c)  At the written request of AIG, seek to obtain, at the sole expense of AIG, such confidential treatment as may be available under applicable laws for any information disclosed under such order.  
     
  Upon the Termination Date the Employee shall return AIG property, including, without limitation, files, records, disks and any media containing Confidential Information or Personal Information. For purposes of this  Section IX.D :  
     
    Confidential Information   shall mean information concerning the financial data, strategic business plans, product development (or other proprietary product data), customer lists, marketing plans and other, proprietary and confidential information relating to the business of AIG or customers, that, in any case, is not otherwise available to the public (other than by the Employee s breach of the terms hereof).  
     
    Personal Information   shall mean any information concerning the personal, social or business activities of the officers or directors of the Company.  
     
   E.                    Developments   
     
  Developments shall be the sole and exclusive property of AIG. The Employee agrees to, and hereby does, assign to AIG, without any further consideration, all of the Employee s right, title and interest throughout the world in and to all Developments. The Employee agrees that all such Developments that are copyrightable may constitute works made for hire under the copyright laws of the United States and, as such, acknowledges that AIG is the author of such Developments and owns all of the rights comprised in the copyright of such Developments.  The Employee hereby assigns to AIG without any further consideration all of the rights comprised in the copyright and other proprietary rights the Employee may have in any such Development to the extent that it might not be considered a work made for hire. The Employee shall make and maintain adequate and current written records of all Developments and shall disclose all Developments promptly, fully and in writing to the Company promptly after development of the same, and at any time upon request.  
     
    Developments   shall mean all discoveries, inventions, ideas, technology, formulas, designs, software, programs, algorithms, products, systems, applications, processes, procedures, methods and improvements and enhancements conceived, developed or otherwise made or created or produced by the Employee alone or with others, and in any way relating to the business or any proposed business of AIG of which the Employee has been made aware, or the products or services of AIG of which the Employee has been  
     
  A-9    

made aware, whether or not subject to patent, copyright or other protection and whether or not reduced to tangible form, at any time during the Employee s employment with AIG.  
     
   F.                     Cooperation   
     
  The Employee agrees (whether during or after the Employee s employment with AIG) to cooperate:  
     
  (a) With AIG in connection with any litigation or regulatory matters in which the Employee may have relevant knowledge or information, and  
     
  (b) With all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding pertaining to AIG.  
     
  This cooperation shall include, without limitation, the following:  
     
  (x) To meet and confer, at a time mutually convenient to the Employee and AIG, with AIG s designated in-house or outside attorneys for trial preparation purposes, including answering questions, explaining factual situations, preparing to testify, or appearing for deposition;  
     
  (y) To appear for trial and give truthful trial testimony without the need to serve a subpoena for such appearance and testimony; and  
     
  (z) To give truthful sworn statements to AIG s attorneys upon their request and, for purposes of any deposition or trial testimony, to adopt AIG s attorneys as the Employee s own ( provided  that there is no conflict of interest that would disqualify the attorneys from representing the Employee), and to accept their record instructions at deposition.  
     
  The Company agrees to reimburse the Employee for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred by the Employee in connection with the cooperation set forth in this paragraph.  
     
   X.                                           Enforcement and Clawback   
     
  If (a) at any time the Employee breaches  Section V  of this Agreement, (b) within one (1) year of the expiration of any restrictive covenant described in  Sections IX.A ,  B  or  D  of this Agreement, AIG determines that the Employee materially breached such restrictive covenant or (c) within one year of the last payment date for any Severance benefit due under the terms of the Plan, AIG determines that grounds existed, on or prior to the Termination Date, including prior to the Effective Date of the Plan, for AIG to terminate the Employee s employment for Cause, then: (x) no further payments or benefits shall be due to the Employee under this Agreement and/or the Plan; and (y) the Employee shall be obligated to repay to AIG, immediately and in a cash lump sum, the amount of any Severance benefits (other than any amounts received by the Employee under  Section IV.D through F  of the Plan) previously received by the Employee under this Agreement and/or the Plan (which shall, for the avoidance of doubt, be calculated on a pre-tax basis);  provided  that the Employee shall in all events be entitled to receive accrued wages and expense reimbursement and accrued but unused vacation pay as set forth in  Section IV.A  of the Plan.  
     
  A-10    

The Employee acknowledges and agrees that AIG s remedies at law for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of  Sections IX.A ,  B ,  D  and  E  of this Agreement would be inadequate, and, in recognition of this fact, the Employee agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any remedies at law, AIG, without posting any bond, shall be entitled to obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction or any other equitable remedy which may then be available.  In addition, AIG shall be entitled to immediately cease paying any amounts remaining due or providing any benefits to the Employee pursuant to  Section IV  of the Plan upon a determination by the  Plan Administrator  (as defined in the Plan) that the Employee has violated any provision of  Section IX  of this Agreement, subject to payment of all such amounts upon a final determination, by a court of competent jurisdiction, that the Employee had not violated  Section IX  of this Agreement.  
     
   XI.                                      General Provisions   
     
   A.                    No Waiver; Severability   
     
  A failure of the Company or any of the Releasees to insist on strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of such provision or any other provision hereof.  If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be so broad as to be unenforceable, such provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable, and in the event that any provision is determined to be entirely unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed severable, such that all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain valid and binding upon the Employee and the Releasees.  
     
   B.                    Governing Law   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE WHOLLY PERFORMED WITHIN THAT STATE, WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS OR THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION WHICH WOULD CAUSE THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THAT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  THE EMPLOYEE CONSENTS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE FEDERAL AND STATE COURTS IN NEW YORK.  
     
   C.                    Entire Agreement/Counterparts   
     
  This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement between the Company and the Employee with regard to all matters herein.  There are no other agreements, conditions, or representations, oral or written, express or implied, with regard thereto.  This Agreement may be amended only in writing, signed by the parties hereto.  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  
     
   D.                    Notice   
     
  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered:  (a) personally; (b) by overnight courier service; (c) by facsimile transmission; or (d) by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed  
     
  A-11    

to the respective addresses, as set forth below, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith;  provided  that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.  Notices shall be deemed given as follows: (x) notices sent by personal delivery or overnight courier shall be deemed given when delivered; (y) notices sent by facsimile transmission shall be deemed given upon the sender s receipt of confirmation of complete transmission; and (z) notices sent by United States registered mail shall be deemed given two days after the date of deposit in the United States mail.  
     
  If to the Employee, to the address as shall most currently appear on the records of the Company.  
     
  If to the Company, to:  
     
  American International Group, Inc.  
  80 Pine Street  
  New York, NY 10005   
  Fax: 212-770-1584  
  Attn: General Counsel  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement.  

EMPLOYEE       

By:       

Name:       
 
  Date:       

Title:       

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.       

By:       

Name:       
 
  Date:       

Title:       

A-12    

</EX-10.69>

<EX-12>
 8
 a2218248zex-12.htm
 EX-12

COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

    Exhibit 12     

(a)  From
continuing operations, excluding undistributed earnings (loss) from equity method investments and capitalized interest.   

  (b)  The
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges excluding interest credited to policy and contract holders removes interest credited to guaranteed investment contract (GIC) policyholders and
guaranteed investment agreement (GIA) contract holders. Such interest expenses are also removed from earnings used in this calculation. GICs and GIAs are entered into by AIG's subsidiaries. The
proceeds from GICs and GIAs are invested in a diversified portfolio of securities, primarily investment grade bonds. The assets acquired yield rates greater than the rates on the related policyholders
obligation or contract, with the intent of earning a profit from the spread.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
358  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 a2218248zex-21.htm
 EX-21

American
International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries   

    Exhibit 21     

Significant Subsidiaries   

As of December 31, 2013    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

American International Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

(2)   

AIA Aurora LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Capital Corporation  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Asset Management (Europe) Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Asset Management (U.S.), LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Securities Lending Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

International Lease Finance Corporation  
     
      California  

100  

Fleet Solutions Holdings Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AeroTurbine, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Federal Savings Bank  
     
      The United States  

100  

AIG Financial Products Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG-FP Matched Funding Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Management France S.A.  
     
      France  

89.999986  
    (3)   

AIG Matched Funding Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Funding, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Services, Inc.  
     
      New Hampshire  

100  

AIG Shared Services Corporation  
     
      New York  

100  

AIG Life Insurance Company (Switzerland) Ltd.  
     
      Switzerland  

100  

AIG Markets, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Trading Group Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG International Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIUH LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Property Casualty Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Claims Services, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Claims, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Health Direct, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG PC Global Services, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG North America, Inc.  
     
      New York  

100  

AIG Property Casualty International, LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG APAC HOLDINGS PTE. LTD.  
     
      Singapore  

100  

AIG Asia Pacific Insurance Pte. Ltd.  
     
      Singapore  

100  

AIG Australia Limited  
     
      Australia  

100  

AIG Insurance Hong Kong Limited  
     
      Hong Kong  

100  

AIG Insurance New Zealand Limited  
     
      New Zealand  

100  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
359  

As of December 31, 2013    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

AIG Malaysia Insurance Berhad  
     
      Malaysia  

100  

AIG Philippines Insurance, Inc.  
     
      Philippines  

100  

AIG Taiwan Insurance Co., Ltd.  
     
      Taiwan  

100  

AIG Vietnam Insurance Company Limited  
     
      Vietnam  

100  

Thai CIT Holding Co., Ltd  
     
      Thailand  

49  

AIG Insurance (Thailand) Public Company Limited  
     
      Thailand  

51  
    (4)   

PT AIG Insurance Indonesia  
     
      Indonesia  

61.21  
    (5)   

AIG Central Europe   CIS Insurance Holdings Corporation  
     
      Delaware  

100  

UBB-AIG Insurance Company AD  
     
      Bulgaria  

40  

AIG Egypt Insurance Company S.A.E.  
     
      Egypt  

95.08  

AIG Europe Holdings Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Europe Financing Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Europe Sub Holdings Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Europe Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Germany Holding GmbH  
     
      Germany  

100  

AIG Israel Insurance Company Limited  
     
      Israel  

100  

Fuji International Insurance Company Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Japan Holdings Kabushiki Kaisha  
     
      Japan  

100  

American Home Assurance Co., Ltd.  
     
      Japan  

100  

AIU Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
      Japan  

100  

JI Accident   Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
      Japan  

50  

The Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance Company, Limited  
     
      Japan  

100  

AIG Fuji Life Insurance Company, Limited  
     
      Japan  

100  

AIG MEA Holdings Limited  
     
      United Arab Emirates  

100  

AIG CIS Investments, LLC  
     
      Russian Federation  

100  

AIG Insurance Company, CJSC  
     
      Russian Federation  

100  

AIG Insurance Limited  
     
      Sri Lanka  

100  

AIG Sigorta A.S.  
     
      Turkey  

100  

AIG PC European Insurance Investments Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Ascot Corporate Name Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIU Insurance Company  
     
      New York  

100  

AIG Insurance Company China Limited  
     
      China  

100  

American International Overseas Limited  
     
      Bermuda  

100  

AIG Chile Compania de Seguros Generales S.A.  
     
      Chile  

100  

AIG Cyprus Limited  
     
      Cyprus  

100  

AIG Insurance (Guernsey) PCC Limited  
     
      Guernsey  

100  

AIG Seguros Colombia S.A.  
     
      Colombia  

96.30  
    (6)   

AIG Seguros, El Salvador, Sociedad Anonima  
     
      El Salvador  

99.99  
    (7)   

AIG Vida, Sociedad Anonima, Seguros de Personas  
     
      El Salvador  

100.00  

AIG Seguros Uruguay S.A.  
     
      Uruguay  

100  

AIG Uganda Limited  
     
      Uganda  

100  

CHARTIS Takaful-Enaya B.S.C. (c)  
     
      Bahrain  

100  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
360  

As of December 31, 2013    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

Chartis Uzbekistan Insurance Company Joint Venture LLC  
     
      Uzbekistan  

51  

C.A. de Seguros American International  
     
      Venezuela  

93.72  

Johannesburg Insurance Holdings (Proprietary) Limited  
     
      South Africa  

100  

AIG Life South Africa Limited  
     
      South Africa  

100  

AIG South Africa Limited  
     
      South Africa  

100  

La Meridional Compania Argentina de Seguros S.A.  
     
      Argentina  

95.43  
    (8)   

Underwriters Adjustment Company, Inc. (Panama)  
     
      Panama  

100  

American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd.  
     
      Bermuda  

100  

AIG Seguros Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
     
      Mexico  

100  

Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Insurance Company-Puerto Rico  
     
      Puerto Rico  

100  

AIG Latin America I.I.  
     
      Puerto Rico  

100  

AIG Brazil Holding I, LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Seguros Brasil S.A.  
     
      Brazil  

99.9999999  
    (9)   

AIG Seguros Guatemala, S.A.  
     
      Guatemala  

100  

American International Underwriters del Ecuador S.A.  
     
      Ecuador  

100  

AIG-Metropolitana Cia de Seguros y Reaseguros S.A.  
     
      Ecuador  

32.06  
    (10)   

Inversiones Segucasai, C.A.  
     
      Venezuela  

100  

Chartis Memsa Holdings, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Lebanon SAL  
     
      Lebanon  

100  

AIG MEA Limited  
     
      United Arab Emirates  

100  

AIG Kenya Insurance Company Limited  
     
      Kenya  

66.67  

CHARTIS Investment Holdings (Private) Limited  
     
      Sri Lanka  

100  

Chartis Kazakhstan Insurance Company Joint Stock Company  
     
      Kazakhstan  

100  

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited  
     
      India  

26  

Private Joint-Stock Company AIG Ukraine Insurance Company  
     
      Ukraine  

94.221  
    (11)   

Travel Guard Worldwide, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Travel Assist, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Travel Guard Americas LLC  
     
      Wisconsin  

100  

Travel Guard Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.  
     
      Singapore  

100  

Travel Guard EMEA Limited  
     
      England  

100  

AIG Travel Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
      Texas  

100  

Livetravel, Inc.  
     
      Wisconsin  

100  

Travel Guard Group Canada, Inc./Groupe Garde Voyage du Canada,
 Inc.  
     
      Canada  

100  

Travel Guard Group, Inc.  
     
      Wisconsin  

100  

WINGS International SAS  
     
      France  

100  

AIG Property Casualty U.S., Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Aerospace Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
      Georgia  

100  

AIG Specialty Insurance Company  
     
      Illinois  

100  

American Home Assurance Company  
     
      New York  

100  

American International Realty Corp.  
     
      Delaware  

31.47  
    (12)   

Pine Street Real Estate Holdings Corp.  
     
      New Hampshire  

31.47  
    (13)   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
361  

As of December 31, 2013    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

Chartis Canada Holdings Inc.  
     
      Canada  

100  

AIG Insurance Company of Canada  
     
      Canada  

100  

AIG Property Casualty Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
      New Jersey  

100  

AIG Property Casualty Company  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

Commerce and Industry Insurance Company  
     
      New York  

100  

Eaglestone Reinsurance Company  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

Lexington Insurance Company  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Chartis Excess Limited  
     
      Ireland  

100  

Morefar Marketing, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

American International Overseas Association  
     
      Bermuda  

78  
    (14)   

Mt. Mansfield Company, Inc.  
     
      Vermont  

100  

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Vermont  
     
      Vermont  

100  

New Hampshire Insurance Company  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

AIG Assurance Company  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

Granite State Insurance Company  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

Illinois National Insurance Co.  
     
      Illinois  

100  

New Hampshire Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
      New Hampshire  

100  

Risk Specialists Companies, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Risk Specialists Companies Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
      Massachusetts  

100  

Agency Management Corporation  
     
      Louisiana  

100  

The Gulf Agency, Inc.  
     
      Alabama  

100  

Design Professionals Association Risk Purchasing Group, Inc.  
     
      Illinois  

100  

The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania  
     
      Pennsylvania  

100  

AM Holdings LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

American Security Life Insurance Company Limited  
     
      Liechtenstein  

100  

Chartis Azerbaijan Insurance Company Open Joint Stock Company  
     
      Azerbaijan  

51  
    (15)   

MG Reinsurance Limited  
     
      Vermont  

100  

SAFG Retirement Services, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

AIG Life Holdings, Inc.  
     
      Texas  

100  

AGC Life Insurance Company  
     
      Missouri  

100  

AIG Life of Bermuda, Ltd.  
     
      Bermuda  

100  

American General Life Insurance Company  
     
      Texas  

100  

AIG Advisor Group, Inc.  
     
      Maryland  

100  

Financial Service Corporation  
     
      Georgia  

100  

FSC Securities Corporation  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Royal Alliance Associates, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

SagePoint Financial, Inc.  
     
      Delaware  

100  

Woodbury Financial Services, Inc.  
     
      Minnesota  

100  

SunAmerica Asset Management, LLC  
     
      Delaware  

100  

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
     
      New York  

100  

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
     
      Texas  

100  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
362  

As of December 31, 2013    
     
   Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or 
Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Immediate 
Parent (1)     

Valic Retirement Services Company  
     
      Texas  

100  

SunAmerica Life Reinsurance Company  
     
      Missouri  

100  

United Guaranty Corporation  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Agenzia di Assicurazione S.R.L.  
     
      Italy  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Insurance (Asia) Limited  
     
      Hong Kong  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Mexico, S.A.  
     
      Mexico  

99.999999  
    (16)   

AIG United Guaranty Re Limited  
     
      Ireland  

100  

United Guaranty Insurance Company  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Partners Insurance Company  
     
      Vermont  

100  

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company  
     
      North Carolina  

75.03  
    (17)   

United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Credit Insurance Company  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Indemnity Company  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Services, Inc.  
     
      North Carolina  

100  

(1)  Percentages
include directors' qualifying shares.   

  (2)  Substantially
all subsidiaries listed are consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. Certain subsidiaries have been omitted from the tabulation. The omitted subsidiaries,
when considered in the aggregate, do not constitute a significant subsidiary.   

  (3)  Also
owned 10 percent by AIG Matched Funding Corp., 0.000005 percent by AIG-FP Capital Preservation Corp., 0.000002 percent by AIG-FP Pinestead
Holdings Corp., and 0.000002 percent by AIG-FP Matched Funding Corp.   

  (4)  Also
owned 48.987 percent by AIG Asia Pacific Insurance Pte. Ltd.   

  (5)  Also
owned 38.79 percent by PT Tiara Citra Cemerlang.   

  (6)  Also
owned 3.70 percent by AIG Insurance Company-Puerto Rico.   

  (7)  Also
owned 0.01 percent by Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC.   

  (8)  Also
owned 4.56 percent by AIG Global Management Company Ltd.   

  (9)  Also
owned 0.0000001 percent by AIG Brazil Holding II, LLC.   

  (10)  Also
owned 19.72 percent by Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC.   

  (11)  Also
owned 5.734 percent by Limited Liability Company with Foreign Investments Steppe Securities, and 0.023 percent by AIG Central Europe   CIS Insurance
Holdings Corporation.   

  (12)  Also
owned 27 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 22.06 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., 5.75 percent by AIU
Insurance Company, 5.05 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, 4.05 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, 1.67 percent by Lexington Insurance
Company, 1.62 percent by AIG Property Casualty Company, 0.73 percent by Illinois National Insurance Co., and 0.6 percent by Granite State Insurance Company.   

(13)  Also
owned 27 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 22.06 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., 5.75 percent by AIU
Insurance Company, 5.05 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, 4.05 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, 1.67 percent by Lexington Insurance
Company, 1.62 percent by AIG Property Casualty Company, 0.73 percent by Illinois National Insurance Co., and 0.6 percent by Granite State Insurance Company.   

  (14)  Also
owned 12 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company and 10 percent by American Home Assurance Company.   

(15)  Also
owned 49 percent by AIG Property Casualty International, LLC.   

  (16)  Also
owned 0.000001 percent by United Guaranty Services, Inc.   

  (17)  Also
owned 24.97 percent by United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina.   

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
363  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 a2218248zex-23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 2-45346, No. 2-75875,
No. 2-78291, No. 2-91945, No. 33-18073, No. 33-57250, No. 333-48639, No. 333-58095, No. 333-70069, No. 333-83813, No. 333-31346,
No. 333-39976, No. 333-45828, No. 333-50198, No. 333-52938, No. 333-68640, No. 333-101640, No. 333-101967, No. 333-108466,
No. 333-111737, No. 333-115911, No. 333-148148, No. 333-168679 and 333-188634) and Form S-3 (No. 333-182469, No. 333-160645, No. 333-74187,
No. 333-106040, No. 333-132561, No. 333-150865 and No. 333-143992) of American International Group, Inc. of our report dated February 20, 2014 relating to the
financial statements, financial statement schedules and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

New
York, New York 
February 20, 2014   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
364  

</EX-23>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 a2218248zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS   

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No.2-45346, No. 2-75875, No. 2-78291,
No. 2-91945, No. 33-18073, No. 33-57250, No. 333-48639, No. 333-58095, No. 333-70069, No. 333-83813, No. 333-31346, No. 333-39976,
No. 333-45828, No. 333-50198, No. 333-52938, No. 333-68640, No. 333-101640, No. 333-101967, No. 333-108466, No. 333-111737,
No. 333-115911, No. 333-148148, No. 333-168679 and No. 333-188634) and Form S-3 (No. 333-182469, No. 333-160645, No. 333-74187,
No. 333-106040, No. 333-132561, No. 333-150865 and No. 333-143992) of American International Group, Inc. of our report dated 24 February 2012 relating to the
consolidated financial statements of AIA Group Limited, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

Hong
Kong 
20 February 2014   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
365  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31>
 12
 a2218248zex-31.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31     

CERTIFICATIONS     

  I, Robert H. Benmosche, certify that:   

  1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc.;   

2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

(a)   Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

  (b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

  (c)   Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)   All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  (b)   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:
February 20, 2014   

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

Robert H. Benmosche 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
366  

CERTIFICATIONS     

  I, David L. Herzog, certify that:   

  1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc.;   

  2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

(a)   Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

  (c)   Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)   All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  (b)   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:
February 20, 2014   

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

David L. Herzog 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
367  

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 13
 a2218248zex-32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32     

CERTIFICATION     

  In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc. (the "Company") for the year
ended December 31, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert H. Benmosche, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:   

  (1)   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

  (2)   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

  Date:
February 20, 2014   

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

Robert H. Benmosche 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate
disclosure document.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
368  

CERTIFICATION     

  In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc. (the "Company") for the year
ended December 31, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, David L. Herzog, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:   

  (1)   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

  (2)   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date:
February 20, 2014   

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

David L. Herzog 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate
disclosure document.   
   
AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
369  

</EX-32>

<EX-99.02>
 14
 a2218248zex-99_02.htm
 EX-99.02

Exhibit 99.02     

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:   

Title of Each Class     
     
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered     

Common Stock, Par Value $2.50 Per Share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

Warrants (expiring January 19, 2021)  
      
   New York Stock Exchange  

5.75% Series A-2 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
      
   New York Stock Exchange  

4.875% Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
      
   New York Stock Exchange  

Stock Purchase Rights  
      
   New York Stock Exchange  

AIG 2013 Form 10-K  
  
370  

</EX-99.02>

<EX-99.1>
 15
 a2218248zex-99_1.htm
 EX-99.1

Exhibit 99.1            

AIA Group Limited     

   Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 30 November 2011     

AIA Group Limited      

Contents   

Independent Auditor's report   
     
   4   

Consolidated Income Statement   

5   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   

6   

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   

7   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   

8   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   

9   

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Policies    

10   

1   
     
       Corporate information   

10   

2   
     
       Significant accounting policies   

10   

3   
     
       Exchange rates   

37   

4   
     
       Operating profit before tax   

38   

5   
     
       Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums   

38   

6   
     
       Segment information   

40   

Supplementary information to the Consolidated Income Statement   

7   
     
       Revenue   

48   

8   
     
       Expenses   

49   

9   
     
       Income tax   

50   

10   
     
       Earnings per share   

53   

11   
     
       Dividends   

54   

Supplementary information to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   

12   
     
       Intangible assets   

55   

13   
     
       Investments in associates   

56   

14   
     
       Property, plant and equipment   

57   

15   
     
       Investment property   

58   

16   
     
       Fair value of investment property and property held for use   

59   

17   
     
       Reinsurance assets   

59   

18   
     
       Deferred acquisition and origination costs   

60   

19   
     
       Financial investments   

60   

20   
     
       Derivative financial instruments   

67   

21   
     
       Fair value of financial instruments   

68   

22   
     
       Other assets   

75   

23   
     
       Cash and cash equivalents   

76   

24   
     
       Insurance contract liabilities   

76   

25   
     
       Investment contract liabilities   

79   

26   
     
       Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates   

79   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
2  

AIA Group Limited   

Contents (continued)   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
3  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AIA GROUP LIMITED     

(incorporated
in Hong Kong with limited liability)   

  In
our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, the
financial position of AIA Group Limited and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in
conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

   PricewaterhouseCoopers    
Certified Public Accountants 
Hong Kong 
24 February 2012   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
4  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Income Statement     

Note       (1)        Based upon shares outstanding at 30 November 2011 that are entitled to a dividend.      

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
5  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
6  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position     

Approved and authorised for issue by the board of directors on 24 February 2012 

) 

) 

) Directors 

) 

)

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
7  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
8  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     

  Cash
flows presented in this statement cover all the Group's activities and include flows from unit-linked contracts, participating funds, and other policyholder and shareholder
activities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
9  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Policies     

1.    Corporate information     

AIA Group Limited (the Company) was established as a company with limited liability incorporated in Hong Kong on 24 August 2009. The address of its registered office is 35/F, AIA Central, 1
Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong.   

  AIA
Group Limited is listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited under the stock code "1299" with American Depositary Receipts (Level 1) being traded on the
over-the-counter market (ticker symbol: AAGIY).   

  AIA
Group Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively 'the AIA Group' or 'the Group') is a life insurance based financial services provider operating in 15 jurisdictions throughout the Asia Pacific
region. The Group's principal activity is the writing of life insurance business, providing life, pensions and accident and health insurance throughout Asia, and distributing related investment and
other financial services products to its customers.      

2.    Significant accounting policies     

2.1    Basis of preparation and statement of compliance     

  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ('IFRS'), Hong Kong Financial
Reporting Standards ('HKFRS') and the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance. HKFRS is substantially consistent with IFRS and the accounting policy selections that the Group has made in preparing these
consolidated financial statements are such that the Group is able to comply with both IFRS and HKFRS. References to IFRS, International Accounting Standards ('IAS') and International Financial
Reporting Interpretation Committee ('IFRIC') in these consolidated financial statements should be read as referring to the equivalent HKFRS, Hong Kong Accounting Standards ('HKAS') and Hong Kong
(IFRIC) Interpretations ('HK (IFRIC)   Int') as the case may be. Accordingly, there are no differences of accounting practice between IFRS and HKFRS affecting these consolidated
financial statements.   

  The
consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2012.   

The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, certain financial assets and
liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments, all of which are carried at fair value.   

  The
accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as described below. In addition, the Group reclassified receivables of US$1,100m to other assets in the
consolidated statement of financial position as of 30 November 2010 to be consistent with current year presentation.   

  During
2011, the Group changed the presentation for certain consolidated unit-linked investment funds to present on a gross basis the investment return and related investment expenses. The
impact of this during 2011, was an increase in investment return, as well as an increase in investment expenses of US$82 million in the consolidated income statement. In addition, in
Note 4, similar impacts are presented including increases in investment income related to unit-linked contracts of US$130 million, investment expenses related to
unit-linked contracts of US$82 million, and investment experience of US$48 million.   

  (a)   The
following new amendments to standards have been adopted by the Group for the financial year ended 30 November 2011:  

Amendments to IAS 17, Leases: Classification of leases of land and buildings. Before the amendments, the Group was
required to classify leasehold land as operating leases and to present leasehold land as prepayments in the consolidated statement of financial position. The amendments to IAS 17 have removed
such a requirement. The amendments require that the classification of leasehold land should be based on the general principles set out in IAS 17, that is, whether or not substantially all the
risks and rewards incidental to ownership of a leased asset have been transferred to the lessee.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
10  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.1    Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
(continued)   

In
accordance with the transitional provisions set out in the amendments to IAS 17, the Group reassessed the classification of unexpired leasehold land as at 30 November 2011 based on
information that existed at the inception of the leases. Leasehold land that qualifies for finance lease classification has been reclassified from prepayments on leasehold land to property, plant and
equipment or investment property on a retrospective basis. This resulted in prepayments on leasehold land with the carrying amounts of US$45m and US$587m as at 30 November 2011
(30 November 2010: US$115m and US$519m) being reclassified to property, plant and equipment and investment property respectively. As the impact is not material, an additional balance sheet for
year ended 30 November 2009 has not been presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. The application of the amendments to IAS 17 has not affected the measurement of
reported net income or equity.   

(b)   The
following new standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 December 2010 and have no material impact for the
Group:  

Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payments, Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions;    
           Amendments to IFRS 8, Operating Segments: Disclosure of information about segment assets;    
           Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows: Classification of expenditure on unrecognised assets;    
           Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets: Unit of accounting for goodwill impairment test;    
           Amendments to IFRS 3, Business Combinations, Transition requirements for contingent consideration from a business
combination that occurred before the effective date of the revised IFRS, Measurement of non-controlling interests, Un-replaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment
awards;   
           Amendments to IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations: Disclosures of
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued operations;   
           Amendments to IAS 18, Revenue, Determining whether an entity is acting as a principal or as an agent;
and  
           Amendments to IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, IAS 28, Investments in associates,
and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, Transition requirements for amendments arising as a result of IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements.    

  (c)   The
following new standards, new interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 November
2011 and 2010 and have not been early adopted (the financial years for which the adoption is planned and required are stated in parenthesis). The Group is yet to assess the full impact of these new
standards on its financial position and results of operations; however, they are not expected to have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Group but may require
additional disclosures:  

IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements (2014);   
           IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (2014);   
           IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, Revised definition of related parties (as revised in 2009) (2012);    
           IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements (as revised in 2011) (2014);   
           IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (as revised in 2011) (2014);    
           Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, Clarification of statement of changes in equity (2012);    
           Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (2013);    
           Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Clarification of disclosures (2012);    
           Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets
(2012);    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
11  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.1    Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
(continued)   

Amendments to IAS 12, Income Taxes, Recovery of underlying assets (2013);    
           Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
(2015);   
           Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
(2014); and  
           Amendment to IFRIC Int   14, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement (2012).    

  (d)   The
following new standards, new interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 November
2011 and 2010 and have not been early adopted (the financial years for which the adoption is planned and required are stated in parenthesis). The Group is yet to assess the full impact of these new
standards on its financial position and results of operations; however, they may have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Group and require additional
disclosures:  

IFRS 9, Financial Instruments (2016);   
           IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements (2014);   
           IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement (2014); and  
           IAS 19, Employee Benefits (as revised in 2011) (2014).    

  Items
included in the consolidated financial statements of each of the Group's entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates (the functional
currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of US Dollars (US$m) unless otherwise stated, which is the Company's functional currency, and the presentation currency of
the Company and the Group.   

  The
significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Group's consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been applied consistently in all periods
presented.   

2.2    Operating profit     

  The long-term nature of much of the Group's operations means that, for management's decision making and internal performance management
purposes, the Group evaluates its results and its operating segments using a financial performance measure referred to as 'operating profit'. The Group defines operating profit before and after tax
respectively as profit excluding the following non-operating items:  

investment experience (which consists of realised gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, impairments and
unrealised gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss);   
           investment income related to unit-linked contracts (consisting of dividends, interest income and rental
income);   
           investment management expenses related to unit-linked contracts;    
           corresponding changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities in respect of unit-linked contracts and
participating funds (see Note 2.3) and changes in third party interests in consolidated investment funds resulting from the above;   
           policyholders' share of tax relating to changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities;
and  
           other significant items that management considers to be non-operating income and expenses.    

  Whilst
these excluded non-operating items are significant components of the Group's profit, the Group considers that the presentation of operating profit enhances the understanding and
comparability of its performance and that of its operating segments. The Group considers that trends can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these non-operating
items, many of which are largely dependent on market factors.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
12  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.2    Operating profit (continued)   

  Operating
profit is provided as additional information to assist in the comparison of business trends in different reporting periods on a consistent basis and enhance overall understanding of
financial performance.   

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates     

Critical accounting policies     

  The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the Group to select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect
items reported in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other primary statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements. The Group considers its
critical accounting policies to be those where a diverse range of accounting treatments is permitted by IFRS and significant judgments and estimates are required.   

Product classification   

  IFRS 4,    Insurance Contracts   , requires contracts written by insurers to be classified either as insurance contracts or
investment contracts, depending on the level of insurance risk. Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, while investment contracts are those contracts without
significant insurance risk. Some insurance and investment contracts, referred to as participating business, have discretionary participation features, or DPF, which may entitle the customer to
receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional non-guaranteed benefits, such as policyholder dividends or bonuses. The Group applies the same accounting policies for the
recognition and measurement of obligations arising from investment contracts with DPF as it does for insurance contracts.   

  Accordingly,
the Group performs a product classification exercise covering its portfolio of contracts to determine the classification of contracts to these categories. Product classification requires
the exercise of significant judgment to determine whether there is a scenario (other than those lacking commercial substance) in which an insured event
would require the Group to pay significant additional benefits to its customers. In the event the Group has to pay significant additional benefits to its customers, the contract is accounted for as an
insurance contract. For investment contracts that do not contain DPF, IAS 39,    Financial Instruments: Measurement and Recognition   , and, if the
contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18,    Revenue Recognition   , are applied. IFRS 4 permits the continued use of previously
applied accounting policies for insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, and this basis has been adopted by the Group in accounting for such contracts.   

  The
judgments exercised in determining the level of insurance risk deemed to be significant in product classification affect the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as
insurance and investment contract liabilities and deferred acquisition and origination costs.   

Insurance contract liabilities (including liabilities in respect of investment contracts with DPF)   

  IFRS 4 permits a wide range of accounting treatments to be adopted for the recognition and measurement of insurance contract liabilities, including liabilities in
respect of insurance and investment contracts with DPF. The Group calculates insurance contract liabilities for traditional life insurance using a net level premium valuation method, whereby the
liability represents the present value of estimated future policy benefits to be paid, less the present value of estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. This method uses best
estimate assumptions adjusted for a provision for the risk of adverse deviation for mortality, morbidity, expected investment yields, policyholder dividends (for other participating business),
surrenders and expenses set at the policy inception date. These assumptions remain locked in thereafter, unless a deficiency arises on liability adequacy testing. Interest rate assumptions can vary by
geographical market, year of issuance and product. Mortality, surrender and expense assumptions are based on actual experience by each geographical market, modified to allow for variations in policy
form. The Group exercises significant judgment in making appropriate assumptions.   

For
contracts with an explicit account balance, such as universal life and unit-linked contracts, insurance contract liabilities represent the accumulation value, which represents premiums
received and investment returns credited to the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
13  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

  policy
less deductions for mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges. Significant judgment is exercised in making appropriate estimates of gross profits, which are also regularly reviewed by
the Group.   

  Participating
business, consisting of contracts with DPF, is distinct from other insurance and investment contracts as the Group has discretion as to either the amount or the timing of the benefits
declared. In some geographical markets, participating business is written in a participating fund which is distinct from the other assets of the operating unit or branch. The allocation of benefits
from the assets held in such participating funds is subject to
minimum policyholder participation mechanisms which are established by applicable regulations. The extent of such policyholder participation may change over time.   

The
Group accounts for insurance contract liabilities for participating business written in participating funds by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits less estimated
future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. In addition, an insurance liability is recorded for the proportion of the net assets of the participating fund that would be allocated to
policyholders assuming all relevant surplus at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position were to be declared as a policyholder dividend based upon applicable regulations.
Establishing these liabilities requires the exercise of significant judgment. In addition, the assumption that all relevant performance is declared as a policyholder dividend may not be borne out in
practice. The Group accounts for other participating business by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits and non-guaranteed participation, less estimated
future net premiums to be collected from policyholders.   

  The
judgments exercised in the valuation of insurance contract liabilities (including contracts with DPF) affect the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as insurance contract
benefits and insurance contract liabilities.   

Deferred policy acquisition and origination costs   

  The costs of acquiring new insurance contracts, including commission, underwriting and other policy issue expenses which vary with and are primarily related to the
production of new business or renewal of existing business, are deferred as an asset. Deferred acquisition costs are assessed for recoverability in the year of policy issue to ensure that these costs
are recoverable out of the estimated future margins to be earned on the policy. Deferred acquisition costs are assessed for recoverability at least annually thereafter. Future investment income is
also taken into account in assessing recoverability. To the extent that acquisition costs are not considered to be recoverable at inception or thereafter, these costs are expensed in the consolidated
income statement.   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for traditional life insurance and annuity policies are amortised over the expected life of the contracts as a constant percentage of expected premiums. Expected premiums
are estimated at the date of policy issue and are applied consistently throughout the life of the contract unless a deficiency occurs when performing liability adequacy testing.   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for universal life and unit-linked contracts are amortised over the expected life of the contracts based on a constant percentage of the present value of
estimated gross profits expected to be realised over the life of the contract or on a straight-line basis. Estimated gross profits include expected amounts for mortality, administration,
investment and surrenders, less benefit claims in excess of policyholder balances, administrative expenses and interest credited. The interest rate used to compute the present value of estimates of
expected gross profits is based on the Group's estimate of the investment performance of the assets held to match these liabilities. Estimates of gross profits are revised regularly. Deviations of
actual results from estimated experience are reflected in earnings. The expensing of acquisition costs is accelerated following adverse investment performance. Likewise, in periods of favourable
investment performance, previously expensed acquisition costs are reversed, not exceeding the amount initially deferred.   

  The
costs of acquiring investment contracts with investment management services, including commissions and other incremental expenses directly related to the issue of each new contract, are deferred
and amortised over the period that investment management service provided. Such deferred origination costs are tested for recoverability at each reporting   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
14  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

  date.
The costs of acquiring investment contracts without investment management services are included as part of the effective interest rate used to calculate the amortised cost of the related
investment contract liabilities.   

  The
judgments exercised in the deferral and amortisation of acquisition and origination costs affect amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as deferred acquisition and origination
costs and insurance and investment contract benefits.   

Liability adequacy testing   

  The Group evaluates the adequacy of its insurance and investment contract liabilities with DPF at least annually. Liability adequacy is assessed by portfolio of contracts in
accordance with the Group's manner of acquiring, servicing and measuring the profitability of its insurance contracts. The Group performs liability adequacy testing separately for each geographical
market in which it operates.   

  For
traditional life insurance contracts, insurance contract liabilities, reduced by deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired on acquired insurance contracts are compared with the
gross premium valuation calculated on a best estimate basis, as of the valuation date. If there is a deficiency, the unamortised balance of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired on
acquired insurance contracts are written down to the extent of the deficiency. If, after writing down deferred acquisition costs for the specific portfolio of contracts to nil, a deficiency still
exists, the net liability is increased by the amount of the remaining deficiency.   

For
universal life and investment contracts with DPF, deferred acquisition costs, net of unearned revenue liabilities, are compared to estimated gross profits. If a deficiency exists, deferred
acquisition costs are written down.   

  Significant
judgment is exercised in determining the level of aggregation at which liability adequacy testing is performed and in selecting best estimate assumptions. The judgments exercised in
liability adequacy testing affect
amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements as commission and other acquisition expenses, deferred acquisition costs and insurance contract benefits and insurance and investment
contract liabilities.   

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss   

  The Group designates financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if this eliminates or reduces an accounting mismatch between the recognition and measurement of
its assets and liabilities, or if the related assets and liabilities are actively managed on a fair value basis. This is the case for:  

financial assets held to back unit-linked contracts and held by participating funds;    
           financial assets managed on a fair value basis; and  
           compound instruments containing an embedded derivative which would otherwise require bifurcation.    

Available for sale financial assets   

  The available for sale category of financial assets is used where the relevant investments are not managed on a fair value basis. These assets principally consist of the
Group's portfolio of debt securities (other than those backing participating fund liabilities and unit-linked contracts). Available for sale financial assets are initially recognised at
fair value plus attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of available for sale securities, except for impairment losses and foreign
exchange gains and losses on monetary items, are recorded in a separate fair value reserve within total equity, until such securities are disposed of.   

  The
classification and designation of financial assets, either as at fair value through profit or loss, or as available for sale, determines whether movements in fair value are reflected in the
consolidated income statement or in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income respectively.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
15  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

Fair values of financial assets  

  The
Group determines the fair values of financial assets traded in active markets using quoted bid prices as of each reporting date. The fair values of financial assets that
are not traded in active markets are typically determined using a variety of other valuation techniques, such as prices observed in recent transactions and values obtained from current bid prices of
comparable investments. More judgment is used in measuring the fair value of financial assets for which market observable prices are not available or are available only infrequently.   

  Changes
in the fair value of financial assets held by the Group's participating funds affect not only the value of financial assets, but are also reflected in corresponding movements in insurance and
investment contract liabilities. This is due to an insurance liability being recorded for the proportion of the net assets of the participating funds that would be allocated to policyholders if all
relevant surplus at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position were to be declared as a policyholder dividend based on current local regulations. Both of the foregoing changes are
reflected in the consolidated income statement.   

  Changes
in the fair value of financial assets held to back the Group's unit-linked contracts result in a corresponding change in insurance and investment contract liabilities. Both of the
foregoing changes are also reflected in the consolidated income statement.   

Impairment of financial assets   

  Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for impairment regularly. This requires the exercise of significant judgment. A
financial investment is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amount and there is objective evidence of impairment to the investment.   

Share-based compensation   

  The Group has adopted a number of share-based compensation plans to retain, motivate and align the interests of eligible employees, directors and officers with those of the
Group. These share-based compensation plans are predominantly accounted for as equity-settled plans under which shares or options to purchase shares are awarded. The Group utilises a binomial lattice
model to calculate the fair value of the share option grants, a Monte-Carlo simulation model and/or discounted cash flow technique to calculate the fair value of the other share awards. These models
require assumption inputs that may differ from actual results due to changes in economic conditions. Further details of share-based compensation are provided in Notes 2.17 and 37.   

Use of estimates     

All estimates are based on management's knowledge of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and predictions of future
events and actions. Actual results can always differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.   

  The
table below sets out those items we consider particularly sensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.   

Item   

Accounting 
policy   

Insurance and investment contract liabilities  

2.5  

Deferred acquisition and origination costs  

2.5  

Liability adequacy testing  

2.5.1  

Impairment of financial instruments classified as available for sale  

2.6.3  

Fair value of financial instruments not traded in active markets  

2.6.2  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
16  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.3    Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates
(continued)   

  Further details of estimation uncertainty in respect of the valuation and impairment of financial instruments are given in Notes 21 and 29 respectively.
Further details of the estimation of amounts for insurance and investment contract liabilities and deferred acquisition and origination costs are given in Notes 24, 25, 26 and 18 respectively.   

2.4    Basis of consolidation     

Subsidiaries     

  Subsidiaries are those entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control over
financial and operating policies in order to gain economic benefits. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from consolidation from
the date at which the Group no longer has control. Intercompany transactions are eliminated.   

  The
Group utilises the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries, unless the acquisition forms part of the Group reorganisation of entities under common control.
Under this method, the cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of consideration payable, shares issued or liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of
acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill (see 2.11 below). Any surplus of the acquirer's interest in the subsidiary's net assets over the
cost of acquisition is credited to the consolidated income statement.   

  The
consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiaries in which AIA Group Limited has a controlling interest, using accounts
drawn up to the balance sheet date.   

Investment funds     

  In several countries, the Group has invested in investment funds, such as mutual funds and unit trusts. These invest mainly in equities, debt
securities and cash and cash equivalents. The Group's percentage ownership in these funds can fluctuate from day to day according to the Group's and third party participation in them. Where the Group
is deemed to control such funds, with control determined based on an analysis of the guidance in IAS 27 and SIC 12, they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than the Group
being classified as liabilities because there is a contractual obligation for the issuer to repurchase or redeem units in such funds for cash. These are presented as 'Third party interests in
consolidated investment funds' within other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. In instances where the Group's ownership of investment funds declines marginally below 50%
and, based on historical analysis and future expectations, the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27. Likewise,
marginal increases in ownership of investment funds above 50% which are expected to be temporary are not consolidated. Where the Group does not control such funds, they are not accounted for as
associates and are, instead, carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

Employee share-based trusts     

  Trusts are set up to acquire shares of the Company for distribution to participants in future periods through the share-based compensation schemes.
The consolidation of these trusts is evaluated in accordance with SIC 12; where the Group is deemed to control the trusts, they are consolidated. Shares acquired by the trusts to the extent not
provided to the participants upon vesting are carried at cost and reported as 'Shares held by employee share-based trusts' in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

Non-controlling interests     

  Non-controlling interests are presented within equity except when they arise through the minority's interest in puttable liabilities such
as the unit holders' interest in consolidated investment funds, when they are recognised as a liability, reflecting the net assets of the consolidated entity.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
17  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)     

2.4    Basis of consolidation     

  Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests, except when they arise through the minority's interest in puttable liabilities,
are treated as transactions between equity holders. As a result, any difference between the acquisition cost or sale price of the non-controlling interest and the carrying value of the
non-controlling interest is recognised as an increase or decrease in equity.   

Associates and joint ventures     

  Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but which it does not control. Generally, it is presumed that the Group has
significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% of
voting rights. Joint ventures are entities whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control arising from a contractual agreement.   

Gains
on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in the associates and joint ventures. Losses are also eliminated,
unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of an asset transferred between entities.   

  Investments
in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under this method, the cost of the investment in an associate, together with the Group's share of that entity's
post-acquisition changes to equity, is included as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position. Cost includes goodwill arising on acquisition. The Group's share of
post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement and its share of post-acquisition movement in equity is recognised in equity. Equity
accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has significant influence over the investment. If the Group's share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking,
additional losses are provided for, and a liability recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. The Group
accounts for investments in joint ventures that are subject to joint control using the proportionate consolidation method.   

The Company's investments     

In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost, unless impaired. The Company's
interests in investment funds such as mutual funds and unit trusts are designated at fair value through profit or loss.   

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts     

  Consistent accounting policies for the measurement and recognition of insurance and investment contracts have been adopted throughout the Group to
substantially all of its business.   

  In
a limited number of cases, the Group measures insurance contract liabilities with reference to statutory requirements in the applicable jurisdiction, without deferral of acquisition costs.   

Product classification     

  Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. These contracts may also transfer financial risk. Significant
insurance risk is defined as the possibility of paying significantly more in a scenario where the insured event occurs than in a scenario in which it does not. Scenarios considered are those with
commercial substance.   

  Investment
contracts are those contracts without significant insurance risk.   

  Once
a contract has been classified as an insurance or investment contract no reclassification is subsequently performed, unless the terms of the agreement are later amended.   

  Certain
contracts with DPF supplement the amount of guaranteed benefits due to policyholders. These contracts are distinct from other insurance and investment contracts as the Group has discretion in
the amount and/or timing of the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
18  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

  benefits
declared, and how such benefits are allocated between groups of policyholders. Customers may be entitled to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional benefits or
bonuses:  

that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;    
           whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the Group; and    
           that are contractually based on:  

the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract;    
           realised and/or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the issuer; or    
           the profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the contract.    

The
Group applies the same accounting policies for the recognition and measurement of obligations and the deferral of acquisition costs arising from investment contracts with DPF as it does to
insurance contracts. The Group refers to such contracts as participating business.   

  In
some jurisdictions participating business is written in a participating fund which is distinct from the other assets of the company or branch. The allocation of benefits from the assets held in
such participating funds is subject to minimum policyholder participation mechanisms which are established by regulation. The extent of such policy
participation may change over time. The current policyholder participation in declared dividends for locations with participating funds is set out below:   

In some jurisdictions participating business is not written in a distinct fund and the Group refers to this as other participating business.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
19  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

  The
Group's products may be divided into the following main categories:   

Policy type    

Description of benefits payable    
     
   Basis of accounting for: 
Insurance contract liabilities    
     
   Investment contract 
liabilities    

Traditional 
participating 
life assurance 
with DPF  
     
  Participating 
funds  
     
  Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends or bonuses, the aggregate amount of which is determined by the
performance of a distinct fund of assets and liabilities       The timing of dividend and bonus declarations is at the discretion of the insurer. Local
regulations generally prescribe a minimum proportion of policyholder participation in declared dividends  
     
  Insurance contract liabilities make provision for the present value of guaranteed benefits less estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. In addition, an insurance liability is recorded for the
proportion of the net assets of the participating fund that would be allocated to policyholders, assuming all performance would be declared as a dividend based upon local regulations  
     
  Not applicable, as IFRS 4 permits contracts with DPF to be accounted for as insurance contracts  

Other 
participating 
business  
      
   Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends or bonuses, the timing or amount of which are at the discretion of
the insurer taking into account factors such as investment experience  
      
   Insurance contract liabilities make provision for the present value of guaranteed benefits and non-guaranteed participation less estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders  
      
   Not applicable, as IFRS 4 permits contracts with DPF to be accounted for as insurance contracts  

Non-participating life assurance, annuities and other protection products  
      
   Benefits payable are not at the discretion of the insurer  
      
   Insurance contract liabilities reflect the present value of future policy benefits to be paid less the present value of estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. In addition, deferred profit
liabilities for limited payment contracts are recognised  
      
   Investment contract liabilities are measured at amortised cost  

Universal life  

Benefits are based on an account balance, credited with interest at a rate set by the insurer, and a death benefit, which may be varied by the customer  
      
   Insurance contract liabilities reflect the accumulation value, representing premiums received and investment return credited, less deductions for front  
      
   Not applicable as such contracts generally contain significant insurance risk  

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
20  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

Policy type    

Description of benefits payable    
     
   Basis of accounting for: 
Insurance contract liabilities    
     
   Investment contract 
liabilities    

end loads, mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges. In addition, liabilities for unearned revenue and additional insurance benefits are recorded  

Unit-linked  

These may be primarily savings products or may combine savings with an element of protection.  
     
  Insurance contract liabilities reflect the accumulation value, representing premiums received and investment return credited, less deductions for front end loads, mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges. In
addition, liabilities for unearned revenue and additional insurance benefits are recorded  
     
  Investment contract liabilities are measured at fair value (determined with reference to the accumulation value)  

In
the notes to the financial statements, unit-linked contracts are presented together with pensions contracts for disclosure purposes.   

  The
basis of accounting for insurance and investment contracts is discussed in Notes 2.5.1 and 2.5.2 below.   

2.5.1    Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF   

Premiums     

  Premiums from life insurance contracts, including participating policies and annuity policies with life contingencies, are recognised
as revenue when due from the policyholder. Benefits and expenses are provided in respect of such revenue so as to recognise profits over the estimated life of the policies. For limited pay contracts,
premiums are recognised in profit or loss when due, with any excess profit deferred and recognised in
income in a constant relationship to the insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected benefit payments.   

Amounts
collected as premiums from insurance contracts with investment features but with sufficient insurance risk to be considered insurance contracts, such as universal life, and certain
unit-linked contracts, are accumulated as deposits. Revenue from these contracts consists of policy fees for the cost of insurance, administration, and surrenders during the period.   

  Upfront
fees are recognised over the estimated life of the contracts to which they relate. Policy benefits and claims that are charged to expenses include benefit claims incurred in the period in
excess of related policyholder contract deposits and interest credited to policyholder deposits.   

Unearned revenue liability     

  Unearned revenue liability arising from insurance contracts representing upfront fees and other non-level charges is
deferred and released to the consolidated income statement over the estimated life of the business.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
21  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

Deferred acquisition costs   

  The costs of acquiring new business, including commissions, underwriting and other policy issue expenses, which vary with and are
primarily related to the production of new business, are deferred. Deferred acquisition costs are subject to the testing of recoverability when issued and at least annually thereafter. Future
investment income is taken into account in assessing recoverability.   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for life insurance and annuity policies are amortised over the expected life of the contracts as a constant percentage of expected premiums. Expected premiums are estimated
at the date of policy issue and are consistently applied throughout the life of the contract unless a deficiency occurs when performing liability adequacy testing (see below).   

  Deferred
acquisition costs for universal life and unit-linked contracts are amortised over the expected life of the contracts based on a constant percentage of the present value of
estimated gross profits expected to be realised over the life of the contract or on a straight-line basis. Estimated gross profits include expected amounts to be assessed for mortality,
administration, investment and surrenders, less benefit claims in excess of policyholder balances, administrative expenses and interest credited. Estimated gross profits are revised regularly. The
interest rate used to compute the present value of revised estimates of expected gross profits is the latest revised rate applied to the remaining benefit period. Deviations of actual results from
estimated experience are reflected in earnings.   

  Unamortised
acquisition costs associated with internally replaced contracts that are, in substance, contract modifications, continue to be deferred and amortised. Any remaining unamortised balance of
deferred acquisition costs associated with internally replaced contracts that are, in substance, new contracts, are expensed.   

Deferred sales inducements     

  Deferred sales inducements, consisting of day one bonuses, persistency bonuses and enhanced crediting rates are deferred and amortised
using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortise acquisition costs when:  

the sales inducements are recognised as part of insurance contract liabilities;    
           they are explicitly identified in the contract on inception;   
           they are incremental to amounts credited on similar contracts without sales inducements; and    
           they are higher than the expected ongoing crediting rates for periods after the inducement.    

Unbundling     

  The deposit component of an insurance contract is unbundled when both of the following conditions are
met:  

the deposit component (including any embedded surrender option) can be measured separately (i.e. without taking into
account the insurance component); and   
           the Group's accounting policies do not otherwise require the recognition of all obligations and rights arising from the
deposit component.    

Bifurcation     

  To the extent that certain of the Group's insurance contracts include embedded derivatives that are not clearly and closely related to
the host contract, these are bifurcated from the insurance contracts and accounted for as derivatives.   

Benefits and claims     

  Insurance contract benefits reflect the cost of all maturities, surrenders, withdrawals and claims arising during the year, as well as
policyholder dividends accrued in anticipation of dividend declarations.   

  Accident
and health claims incurred include all losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related handling costs, a reduction for recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding
from previous years.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
22  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

  Claims
handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims, and are included in operating expenses.   

Insurance contract liabilities (including liabilities in respect of investment contracts with DPF)     

  These represent the estimated future policyholder benefit liability for life insurance policies.   

Future
policy benefits for life insurance policies are calculated using a net level premium valuation method which represents the present value of estimated future policy benefits to be paid, less the
present value of estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders. The method uses best estimate assumptions set at the policy inception date, adjusted for a provision for the risk of
adverse deviation for mortality, morbidity, expected investment yields, dividends (for other participating business), surrenders and expenses, which remain locked in thereafter, unless a deficiency
arises on liability adequacy testing (see below).   

  Interest
rate assumptions can vary by country, year of issuance and product. Mortality assumptions are based on actual experience by geographic area and are modified to allow for variations in policy
form. Surrender assumptions are based on actual experience by geographic area and are modified to allow for variations in policy form.   

  For
contracts with an explicit account balance, such as universal life and unit-linked contracts, insurance contract liabilities are equal to the accumulation value, which represents
premiums received and investment returns credited to the policy less deductions for mortality and morbidity costs and expense charges.   

  Settlement
options are accounted for as an integral component of the underlying insurance or investment contract unless they provide annuitisation benefits, in which case an additional liability is
established to the extent that the present value of expected annuitisation payments at the expected annuitisation date exceeds the expected account balance at that date. Where settlement options have
been issued with guaranteed rates less than market interest rates, the insurance or investment contract liability does not reflect any provision for subsequent declines in market interest rates unless
a deficiency is identified through liability adequacy testing.   

  The
Group accounts for participating policies within participating funds by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits less estimated future net premiums to be collected
from policyholders. In addition, an insurance liability is recorded for the proportion of the net assets of the participating fund that would be allocated to policyholders assuming all performance
were to be declared as a dividend based upon local regulations. The Group accounts for other participating business by establishing a liability for the present value of guaranteed benefits and
non-guaranteed participation, less estimated future net premiums to be collected from policyholders.   

Liability adequacy testing     

  The adequacy of liabilities is assessed by portfolio of contracts, in accordance with the Group's manner of acquiring, servicing and
measuring the profitability of its insurance contracts. Liability adequacy testing is performed for each geographic market.   

For
traditional life insurance contracts, insurance contract liabilities reduced by deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired on acquired insurance contracts, are compared to the gross
premium valuation calculated on a best estimate basis, as of the valuation date. If there is a deficiency, the unamortised balance of deferred acquisition cost and value of business acquired on
acquired insurance contracts are written down to the extent of the deficiency. If, after writing down the unamortised balance for the specific portfolio of contracts to nil, a deficiency still exists,
the net liability is increased by the amount of the remaining deficiency.   

For
universal life and investment contracts, deferred acquisition costs, net of unearned revenue liabilities, are compared to estimated gross profits. If a deficiency exists, deferred acquisition
costs are written down.   

Financial guarantees     

  Financial guarantees are regarded as insurance contracts. Liabilities in respect of such contracts are recognised as incurred.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
23  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

2.5.2    Investment contracts  

  Investment contracts do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be considered insurance contracts and are accounted for as a financial liability, other than
investment contracts with DPF which are excluded from the scope of IAS 39 and are accounted for as insurance contracts.   

  Revenue
from these contracts consists of various charges (policy fees, handling fees, management fees and surrender charges) made against the contract for the cost of insurance, expenses and early
surrender. First year charges are amortised over the life of the contract as the services are provided.   

Investment contract fee revenue   

  Customers are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, surrenders or other contract services. The fees may be
fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholder's account balance. The fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which
they are received unless they relate to services to be provided in future periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.   

Origination
and other 'upfront' fees (fees that are assessed against the account balance as consideration for origination of the contract) are charged on some non-participating investment
and pension contracts. Where the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are amortised and recognised over the expected term of the policy as an adjustment to the effective
yield. Where the investment contract is measured at fair value, the front end fees that relate to the provision of investment management services are amortised and recognised as the services are
provided.   

Deferred origination costs     

  The costs of acquiring investment contracts with investment management services, including commissions and other incremental expenses
directly related to the issue of each new contract, are deferred and amortised over the period that services are provided. Deferred origination costs are tested for recoverability at each reporting
date.   

  The
costs of acquiring new investment contracts without investment management services are included as part of the effective interest rate used to calculate the amortised cost of the related
investment contract liabilities.   

Investment contract liabilities     

  Deposits received in respect of investment contracts are not accounted for through the consolidated income statement, except for the
investment income and fees attributable to those contracts, but are
accounted for directly through the consolidated statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability, which reflects the account balance.   

  The
majority of the Group's contracts classified as investment contracts are unit-linked contracts. These represent investment portfolios maintained to meet specific investment objectives
of policyholders who generally bear the credit and market risks on those investments. The liabilities are carried at fair value determined with reference to the accumulation value (current unit value)
with changes recognised in income. The costs of policy administration, investment management, surrender charges and certain policyholder taxes assessed against customers' account balances are included
in revenue, and accounted for as described under 'Investment contract fee revenue' above.   

  Non
unit-linked investment contract liabilities are carried at amortised cost, being the fair value of consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of
principal payments such as transaction costs and front end fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest rate method of any difference between that initial amount and
the maturity value, and less any write down for surrender payments. The effective interest rate equates the discounted cash payments to the initial amount. At each reporting date, the unearned revenue
liability is determined as the value of the future best estimate cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate. Any adjustment is immediately recognised as income or expense in the consolidated
income statement.   

  The
amortised cost of the financial liability is never recorded at less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the time value of money where applicable, if the investment contract is
subject to a surrender option.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
24  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.5    Insurance and investment contracts (continued)   

2.5.3    Insurance and investment contracts   

Reinsurance     

  The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business, with retentions varying by line of business. The cost of reinsurance is
accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to account for such policies.   

  Premiums
ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position.   

  Reinsurance
assets consist of amounts receivable in respect of ceded insurance liabilities. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the reinsured insurance or
investment contract liabilities or benefits paid and in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.   

  To
the extent that reinsurance contracts principally transfer financial risk (as opposed to insurance risk) they are accounted for directly through the consolidated statement of financial position and
are not included in reinsurance assets or liabilities. A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified premiums or fees to be
retained by the reinsured.   

  If
a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the consolidated income statement. A reinsurance asset is impaired if there
is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract,
and the impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer can be reliably measured.   

Value of business acquired ('VOBA')     

  The value of business acquired ('VOBA') in respect of a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment contracts, either
directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset. If this results from the acquisition of an investment in a joint venture or an associate, the VOBA is held within the
carrying amount of that investment. In all cases, the VOBA is amortised over the estimated life of the contracts in the acquired portfolio on a systematic basis. The rate of amortisation reflects the
profile of the value of in-force business acquired. The carrying value of VOBA is reviewed annually for impairment and any reduction is charged to the consolidated income statement.   

Shadow accounting     

  Shadow accounting is applied to insurance and certain investment contracts where financial assets backing insurance and investment
contracts liabilities are classified as available for sale. Shadow accounting is applied to deferred acquisition costs, VOBA, deferred origination costs and the contract liabilities for investment
contracts with DPF to take into account the effect of unrealised gains or losses on insurance liabilities or assets that are recognised in equity in the same way as for a realised gain or loss
recognised in the consolidated income statement. Such assets or liabilities are adjusted with corresponding charges or credits recognised directly in shareholders' equity as a component of the related
unrealised gains and losses.   

Other assessments and levies     

  The Group is potentially subject to various periodic insurance related assessments or guarantee fund levies. Related provisions are
established where there is a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event. Such amounts are not included in insurance or investment contract liabilities but are included
under 'Provisions' in the consolidated statement of financial position.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
25  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)     

2.6    Financial instruments     

2.6.1    Classification of and designation of financial instruments   

Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss     

Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss comprise two categories:  

financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss; and   
           derivative assets and liabilities.    

  Management
designates financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if this eliminates a measurement inconsistency or if the related assets and liabilities are actively managed on a fair value
basis, including:  

financial assets held to back unit-linked contracts and participating funds;    
           other financial assets managed on a fair value basis; consisting of the Group's equity portfolio and investments held by
the Group's fully consolidated investment funds; and   
           compound instruments containing an embedded derivative, where the embedded derivative would otherwise require bifurcation.    

  Dividend
income from equity instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in investment income in the consolidated income statement, generally when the security becomes
ex-dividend. Interest income is recognised on an accrued basis. For all financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, changes in fair value are recognised in investment
experience.   

  Transaction
costs in respect of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are expensed as they are incurred.   

Available for sale financial assets     

  Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and receivables, are classified as available for sale.   

The
available for sale category is used where the relevant investments backing insurance and investment contract liabilities and shareholders' equity are not managed on a fair value basis. These
principally consist of the Group's debt securities (other than those backing participating funds and unit-linked contracts). Available for sale financial assets are initially recognised at
fair value plus attributable transaction costs. For available for sale debt securities, the difference between their cost and par value is amortised. Available for sale financial assets are
subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income from debt securities classified as available for sale is recognised in investment income in the consolidated income statement using the effective
interest method.   

  Unrealised
gains and losses on securities classified as available for sale are analysed between differences resulting from foreign currency translation, and other fair value changes. Foreign currency
translation differences on monetary available for sale investments, such as debt securities are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the consolidated income
statement as investment experience. For impairments of available for sale financial assets reference is made to the section 'Impairment of financial assets'.   

  Changes
in the fair value of securities classified as available for sale, except for impairment losses and relevant foreign exchange gains and losses, are recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in a separate fair value reserve within equity. Impairment losses and relevant foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.   

Realised gains and losses on financial assets     

  Realised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and amortised cost. Cost
is determined by specific identification.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
26  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.6    Financial instruments (continued)   

Recognition of financial instruments     

  Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the trade date, which is the date at which the Group commits
to purchase or sell the assets.   

Derecognition and offset of financial assets     

  Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset, it derecognises the financial
asset if it no longer has control over the asset. In transfers where control over the asset is retained, the Group continues to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. The
extent of continuing involvement is determined by the extent to which the Group is exposed to changes in the fair value of the asset.   

  Financial
assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.   

Loans and receivables     

  Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less any impairment losses. Interest
income from loans and receivables is recognised in investment income in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method.   

Term deposits     

  Deposits include time deposits with financial institutions which do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents as their maturity at
acquisition exceeds three months. Certain of these balances are subject to regulatory or other restriction as disclosed in Note 19 Loans and Deposits. Deposits are stated at face value.   

Cash and cash equivalents     

  Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with maturities at
acquisition of three months or less, which are held for cash management purposes. Cash and cash equivalents also include cash received as collateral for securities lending as well as cash and cash
equivalents held for the benefit of policyholders in connection with unit-linked products. Cash and cash equivalents are stated at face value.   

2.6.2    Fair values of non-derivative financial assets   

  The
fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date, having regard to the specific characteristics of the asset or liability concerned, assuming that the transfer takes place in the most advantageous market to which the Group has access. The fair
values of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale securities) are based on quoted market prices at the
date of the consolidated statement of financial position. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. The fair values of financial instruments that
are not traded in active markets are determined using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions at the date of each
consolidated statement of financial position. The objective of using a valuation technique is to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the
date of the consolidated statement of financial position.   

  Financial
instruments carried at fair value are measured using a fair value hierarchy described in Note 21.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
27  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.6    Financial instruments (continued)   

  The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors,
including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market
conditions.   

2.6.3    Impairment of financial assets   

General     

  Financial assets are assessed for impairment on a regular basis. A financial asset is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable
amount and there is objective evidence of impairment to the financial asset.   

  The
Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset, or group of financial assets, is
impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a 'loss
event') and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.   

  Objective
evidence that a financial asset, or group of assets, is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following
events:  

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor;   
           a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments;   
           it becomes probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;    
           the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or    
           observable data, including market prices, indicating that there is a potential decrease in the estimated future cash flows
since the initial recognition of those assets, including:  

adverse changes in the payment status of issuers; or   
           national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk.    

For
loans and receivables, the Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for financial assets that are individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective
evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics
and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective
assessment of impairment.   

Available for sale financial instruments     

  When a decline in the fair value of an available for sale asset has been recognised in shareholders' equity and there is objective evidence that the
asset is impaired, the cumulative loss already recognised directly in shareholders' equity is recognised in current period profit or loss. The Group generally considers an
available for sale equity instrument for evidence of impairment if the fair value is significantly below cost or has been below cost for a prolonged period. If such assets are considered to be
impaired, the amount of the cumulative loss that is removed from shareholders' equity and recognised in current period profit or loss is the difference between acquisition cost (net of any principal
repayment and amortisation) and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised.   

  If
the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss
was recognised in income, the impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss on equity instruments classified as available for sale are not
reversed.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
28  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.6    Financial instruments (continued)   

Where,
following the recognition of an impairment loss in respect of an available for sale debt security, the asset suffers further falls in value, such further falls are recognised as an impairment
only in the case when objective evidence exists of a further impairment event to which the losses can be attributed.   

Loans and receivables     

  For loans and receivables, impairment is considered to have taken place if it is probable that the Group will not be able to collect principal and/or
interest due according to the contractual terms of the instrument. When impairment is determined to have occurred, the carrying amount is decreased through a charge to profit or loss. The carrying
amount of mortgage loans or receivables is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of any allowance is recognised as an impairment loss in profit or loss. The allowance is
determined using an analytical method based on knowledge of each loan group or receivable. The method is usually based on historical statistics, adjusted for trends in the group of financial assets or
individual accounts.   

2.6.4    Derivative financial instruments   

  Derivative
financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps that derive their value mainly from underlying foreign exchange rates and interest rates. All derivatives
are initially recognised in the
consolidated statement of financial position at their fair value, which represents their cost excluding transaction costs, which are expensed, giving rise to a day one loss. They are subsequently
remeasured at their fair value, with movements in this value recognised in profit or loss. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation
techniques such as discounted cash flow models or option pricing models. All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.   

Derivative instruments for economic hedging     

  Whilst the Group enters into derivative transactions to provide economic hedges under the Group's risk management framework, it does not currently
apply hedge accounting to these transactions. This is either because the transactions would not meet the specific IFRS rules to be eligible for hedge accounting or the documentation requirements to
meet hedge accounting criteria would be unduly onerous. These transactions are therefore treated as held for trading and fair value movements are recognised immediately in investment experience.   

Embedded derivatives     

  Embedded derivatives are derivatives embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments to create hybrid instruments. Where
the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not
measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.   

2.7    Segment reporting     

  An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activity from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses and, for which,
discrete financial information is available, and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group's chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Executive Committee of the Group
("Exco").   

2.8    Foreign currency translation     

  Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are translated into the Group's presentation currency at average exchange rates for the year as
this approximates to the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date. Their statements of financial position are translated at year or period end exchange rates. Exchange differences arising
from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to the currency translation reserve within equity. On disposal of a   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
29  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.8    Foreign currency translation (continued)   

  foreign
operation such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.   

  Foreign
currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies into functional currency, are recognised in the consolidated income statement.   

  Translation
differences on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss are included in investment experience. For monetary financial assets classified as available for sale,
translation differences are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the consolidated income statement. Foreign exchange movements on non-monetary
equities that are accounted for as available for sale are included in the fair value reserve.   

2.9    Property, plant and equipment     

  Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate cost less any residual value over the
estimated useful life, generally:   

Furniture, fixtures and office equipment  
     
  5 years  

Buildings  
     
  20-40 years  

Other assets  
     
  3-5 years  

Freehold land  
     
  No depreciation  

Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, when it is probable that future economic benefits will
flow to the Group. Repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.   

Residual
values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if applicable, at each reporting date. An asset is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying value is greater than the
estimated recoverable amount.   

  Any
gain and loss arising on disposal of property, plant and equipment is measured as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the relevant asset, and is recognised in
the consolidated income statement.   

  Where
the cost of the Group's leasehold land is known, or can be reliably determined at the inception of the lease, the Group records its interest in leasehold land and land use rights separately as
operating leases or finance leases depending on whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the land are transferred to the Group. These leases are recorded at original
cost and amortised over the term of the lease (see 2.19).   

2.10    Investment property     

  Property held for long-term rental that is not occupied by the Group is classified as investment property, and is carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.   

  Investment
property comprises freehold or leasehold land and buildings. Buildings located on leasehold land are classified as investment property if held for long-term rental and not
occupied by the Group. Where the cost of the land is known, or can be reliably determined at the inception of the lease, the Group records its interest in leasehold land and land use rights separately
as operating leases or finance leases depending on whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the land are transferred to the Group (see 2.19). These leases are
recorded at original cost and amortised over the term of the lease. Buildings that are held as investment properties are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives of
20-40 years.   

  If
an investment property becomes held for use, it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment. Where a property is partly used as an investment property and partly for the use of the Group,
these elements are recorded separately within property, plant and equipment and investment property respectively, where the component used as investment property would be capable of separate sale or
finance lease.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
30  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.10    Investment property (continued)   

  The
fair value of investment properties and property held for use is disclosed under Note 16. It is the Group's policy to perform external property valuation annually except in the case a
discrete event occurs in the interim that has a significant impact on the fair value of the properties.   

2.11    Goodwill and other intangible assets     

Goodwill     

  Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group's share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired
subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 December 2006 (the date of transition to IFRS) is carried at book value (original cost
less cumulative amortisation) on that date, less any impairment subsequently incurred. Goodwill arising on the Group's investment in subsidiaries since that date is shown as a separate asset, whilst
that on associates and joint ventures is included within the carrying value of those investments. With effect from the date of adoption of IFRS 3 (Revised) from 1 December 2009, all
acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.   

Other intangible assets     

  Other intangible assets consist primarily of acquired computer software and contractual relationships, such as access to distribution networks, and
are amortised over their estimated useful lives.   

  Acquired
computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Costs directly associated with the internal production of
identifiable and unique software by the Group that will generate economic benefits exceeding those costs over a period greater than a year, are recognised as intangible assets. All other costs
associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs of acquiring computer software licences and incurred in the internal production
of computer software are amortised using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which does not generally exceed a period of 3-15 years.   

The
amortisation charge for the year is included in the consolidated income statement under 'Operating expenses'.   

2.12    Impairment of non-financial assets     

  Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is
the higher of the asset's net selling price and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into cash generating units at the level of the Group's operating segments,
the lowest level for which separately identifiable cash flows are reported. The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are reviewed at least annually or when
circumstances or events indicate that there may be uncertainty over this value.   

  The
Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any objective evidence that its investments in associates are impaired. Such objective evidence includes whether there has been
any significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the associates operate or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in value below
their cost. If there is an indication that an interest in an associate is impaired, the Group assesses whether the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is recoverable. An
impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss for the amount by which the carrying amount is lower than the higher of the investment's fair value less costs to sell or value in use. Any reversal of
such impairment loss in subsequent periods is reversed through profit or loss.   

  Impairment
testing of the investments in subsidiaries and associates is required upon receiving dividends from these investments if the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the
subsidiaries or associates in the period the dividend is declared or if the carrying amount of the relevant investment in the Company's balance sheet exceeds its carrying amount in the consolidated
financial statements of the investee's net assets including goodwill.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
31  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)     

2.13    Securities lending including repurchase agreements     

  The Group has been party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third parties on a short term basis. The loaned
securities are not derecognised and so they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.   

Assets sold under repurchase agreements (repos)     

  Assets sold under repurchase agreements continue to be recognised and a liability is established for the consideration received. The Group may be
required to provide additional collateral based on the
fair value of the underlying assets, and such collateral assets remain on the consolidated statement of financial position.   

Assets purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos)     

  The Group enters into purchases of assets under agreements to resell (reverse repos). Reverse repos are initially recorded at the cost of the loan or
collateral advanced within the caption 'Other assets' in the consolidated statement of financial position. In the event of failure by the counterparty to repay the loan the Group has the right to the
underlying assets.   

Collateral     

  The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or non-cash assets in respect of securities lending transactions, and repo
and reverse repo transactions, in order to reduce the credit risk of these transactions. The amount and type of collateral depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty. Collateral
received in the form of cash, which is not legally segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the
repayment. Non-cash collateral received is not recognised on the consolidated statement of financial position unless the Group either sells or repledges these assets in the absence of
default, at which point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised as a liability. To further minimise credit risk, the financial condition of counterparties is monitored on a regular
basis.   

  Collateral
pledged in the form of cash which is legally segregated from the Group is derecognised from the consolidated statement of financial position and a corresponding receivable established for
its return. Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised (except in the event of default) and therefore continues to be recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position
within the appropriate financial instrument classification.   

2.14    Borrowings     

  Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less transaction costs incurred. Subsequently, borrowings are stated at amortised cost,
and any difference between net proceeds and redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. All
borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred, except for borrowing costs directly attributable to the development of investment properties and other qualifying assets, which are capitalised as
part of the cost of the asset.   

2.15    Income taxes     

The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, including any adjustments in respect of prior years. Tax is allocated to profit
or loss before taxation and amounts charged or credited to equity as appropriate.   

  Deferred
tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except as described
below.   

  The
principal temporary differences arise from the basis of recognition of insurance and investment contract liabilities, revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative
contracts, deferred acquisition costs and the future taxes arising on the surplus in life funds where the relevant local tax regime is distributions based. The rates
enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position are used to determine deferred tax.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
32  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.15    Income taxes (continued)   

  Deferred
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. In countries where there is a
history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is evidence that future profits will be available.   

  Deferred
taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or from goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or from
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and which affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.   

Deferred
tax related to fair value remeasurement of available for sale investments and other amounts taken directly to equity, is recognised initially within the applicable component of equity. It is
subsequently recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with the gain or loss arising on the underlying item.   

  In
addition to paying tax on shareholders' profits, certain of the Group's life insurance businesses pay tax on policyholders' investment returns ('policyholder tax') at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense and disclosed separately.   

2.16    Revenue     

Investment return     

  Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for the reporting period. Investment experience comprises realised gains and
losses, impairments and unrealised gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss. Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on
the investment. Rental income on investment property is recognised on an accruals basis. Investment return consists of investment income and investment experience.   

  The
realised gain or loss on disposal of an investment is the difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised cost as appropriate. Unrealised
gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase price if purchased during the year, less the reversal
of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.   

Other fee and commission income     

  Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund management fees, income from any incidental non-insurance activities,
distribution fees from mutual funds, commissions on reinsurance ceded and commission revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares. Reinsurance commissions receivable are deferred in the same way as
acquisition costs. All other fee and commission income is recognised as the services are provided.   

2.17    Employee benefits     

Annual leave and long service leave     

  Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the estimated
liability for annual leave and long service leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the reporting date.   

Post-retirement benefit obligations     

  The Group operates a number of funded and unfunded post-retirement employee benefit schemes, whose members receive benefits on either a
defined benefit basis (generally related to salary and length of service) or a defined contribution basis (generally related to the amount invested, investment return and annuity rates), the assets of
which are generally held in separate trustee administered funds. The defined benefit plans provide life and medical benefits for   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
33  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.17    Employee benefits (continued)   

  employees
after retirement and a lump sum benefit on cessation of employment, and the defined contribution plans provide post-retirement pension benefits.   

  For
defined benefit plans, the costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, the cost of providing benefits is charged to the consolidated income statement so as to
spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. The obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash
outflows, using a discount rate based on market yields for high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related liability. The resulting scheme surplus or deficit appears as an asset or liability in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

  For
each plan, AIA Group recognises a portion of its actuarial gains and losses in income or expense if the unrecognised actuarial net gain or loss at the end of the previous reporting period exceeds
the greater of:  

10% of the projected benefit obligations at that date; or  
           10% of the fair value of any plan assets at that date.    

  Any
recognised actuarial net gain or loss exceeding the greater of these two values is generally recognised in the consolidated income statement over the expected average remaining service periods of
the employees participating in the plans.   

  For
defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no further payment
obligations. The Group's contributions are charged to the consolidated income statement in the reporting period to which they relate and are included in staff costs.   

Share-based compensation and cash incentive plans     

  Following the public listing of the Group on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and the divestiture by AIG of more than 50% of the Group on
29 October 2010, the Group launched a number of share-based compensation plans, under which the Group receives services from the employees, directors and officers as consideration for the
shares and/or options of the Company. These share-based compensation plans comprise the Share Option Scheme ('SO Scheme'), the Restricted Share Unit Scheme ('RSU Scheme'), and the Employee Share
Purchase Plan ('ESPP'). Previously, the Group had various share-based compensation plans sponsored by AIG; in connection with AIG's divestiture of more than 50% of the Group on 29 October 2010,
all unvested incentive awards sponsored by AIG were considered to be unvested.   

  The
Group's share compensation plans are predominantly equity-settled plans. Under equity-settled share-based compensation plan, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the
grant of shares and/or options is recognised as an expense in profit or loss over the vesting period with a corresponding amount recorded in equity.   

  The
total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share and/or options granted. Non-market vesting conditions are included in
assumptions about the number of shares and/or options that are expected to be vested. At each period end, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares and/or options that are expected to be
vested. Any impact of the revision to original estimates is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to equity. Where awards of share-based payment arrangements have graded vesting
terms, each tranche is recognised as a separate award, and therefore the fair value of each tranche is recognised over the applicable vesting period.   

  The
Group estimates the fair value of options using a binomial lattice model. This model requires inputs such as share price, implied volatility, risk free interest rate, expected dividend rate and
the expected life of the option.   

  Where
modification or cancellation of an equity-settled share-based compensation plan occurs, the grant date fair value continues to be recognised, together with any incremental value arising on the
date of modification if non-market conditions are met.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
34  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.17    Employee benefits (continued)   

  For
cash-settled share-based compensation plans, the fair value of the employee services in exchange for the grant of cash-settled award is recognised as an expense in profit
or loss, with a corresponding amount recognised in liability. At the end of each reporting period, any unsettled award is remeasured based on the change in fair value of the underlying asset and the
liability and expense are adjusted accordingly.   

2.18    Provisions and contingencies     

  Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of
economic resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example
under an insurance contract held, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.   

The
Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.   

  Contingencies
are disclosed if material and if there is a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, but either a payment
is not probable or the amount cannot be reliably estimated.   

2.19    Leases     

  Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the Group as a lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Assets subject to such leases are included in property, plant and equipment or investment property, and are depreciated to their residual values over their estimated useful lives. Rentals from such
leases are credited to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the relevant lease. Payments made by the Group as lessee under operating leases (net of any
incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the relevant lease. The Group classifies amounts paid to acquire
leasehold land either as an operating lease prepayment or as a component of property, plant and equipment or investment property depending on whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental
to the ownership of the land are transferred to the Group.   

  There
are no freehold land interests in Hong Kong. The Group classifies the amounts paid to acquire leasehold land under operating leases and finance leases as operating lease prepayments and
property, plant and equipment or investment property respectively. Operating lease prepayments are included within 'Other assets'. Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the land on a
straight line basis over the terms of the lease.   

2.20    Share capital     

  Issued capital represents the nominal value of shares issued plus any share premium received from the issue of share capital.   

Share issue costs     

  Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the
issue.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
35  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

2.    Significant accounting policies (continued)    

2.20    Share capital (continued)   

Dividends     

  Interim dividend on ordinary shares are recognised when they have been paid. Final dividend on ordinary shares are recognised when they have been
approved by shareholders.   

2.21    Presentation of the consolidated statement of financial position     

  The Group's insurance and investment contract liabilities and related assets are realised and settled over periods of several years, reflecting the
long-term nature of the Group's products. Accordingly, the Group presents the assets and liabilities in its consolidated statement of financial position in approximate order of liquidity,
rather than distinguishing current and non-current assets and liabilities. The Group regards its intangible assets, investments in associates and joint ventures, property, plant and
equipment, investment property and deferred acquisition and origination costs as non-current assets as these are held for the longer term use of the Group.   

2.22    Earnings per share     

  Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net profit available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the year.   

  Earnings
per share has also been calculated on the operating profit before adjusting items, attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the Directors believe this figure provides a better indication of
operating performance.   

  For
diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share options granted to
employees.   

  Potential
or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.   

2.23    Fiduciary activities     

  Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are excluded from these
consolidated financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights to the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.   

2.24    Consolidated statement of cash flow     

  The consolidated statement of cash flow presents movements in cash and cash equivalents as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

  Purchases
and sales of financial investments are included in operating cash flows as the purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the origination of insurance and investment contracts, net
of payments of related benefits and claims. Purchases and sales of investment property are included within investing cash flows.   

2.25    Related party transactions     

  Transactions with related parties are recorded at amounts mutually agreed and transacted between the parties to the arrangement.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
36  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

3.    Exchange rates     

  The
Group's principal overseas operations during the reporting period were located within the Asia Pacific region. The results and cash flows of these operations have been translated into US Dollars
at the following average rates:   

Assets and liabilities have been translated at the following year end rates:   

Exchange rates are expressed in units of local currency per US$1.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
37  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

4.    Operating profit before tax     

Operating profit before tax may be reconciled to net profit as follows:   

Restructuring costs represent costs related to restructuring programmes and are primarily comprised of redundancy and contract termination costs. Separation
costs are those significant and identifiable costs related to the Group's separation from AIG.      

5.    Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums     

For management decision making and internal performance management purposes, the Group measures business volumes during the year using a performance measure referred to as total weighted premium
income ('TWPI'), while the Group measures new business activity using a performance measure referred to as annualised new premiums ('ANP'). Both measures are reported gross of reinsurance ceded.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
38  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

5.    Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums (continued)    

  TWPI
consists of 100% of renewal premiums, 100% of first year premiums and 10% of single premiums and includes deposits and contributions for contracts that are accounted for as deposits in accordance
with the Group's accounting policies.   

  Management
considers that TWPI provides an indicative volume measure of transactions undertaken in the reporting period that have the potential to generate profits for shareholders. The amounts shown
are not intended to be indicative of premium and fee income recorded in the consolidated income statement.   

ANP
is a key internal measure of new business activities, which consists of 100% of annualised first year premium and 10% of single premium, before reinsurance ceded. ANP excludes renewal premiums and
first year premiums are reported on an annualised basis.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
39  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

5.    Total weighted premium income and annualised new premiums (continued)    

Note:        (1)     ANP excludes new business of our corporate pension business, personal lines and motor insurance.    

6.    Segment information     

The Group's operating segments, based on the reports received by the Exco, are each of the geographical markets in which the Group operates. Each of the reportable segments, other than the 'Corporate
and Other' segment, writes life insurance business, providing life, pensions, and accident and health products to customers in its local market, and distributes related investment and other financial
services products. The reportable segments, as required to be disclosed separately under IFRS 8, are Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, Korea, Malaysia, China, Other Markets and Corporate and
Other. The Group's Hong Kong reportable segment includes Macau. The Group's Singapore reportable segment includes Brunei. Other Markets primarily includes the Group's operations in the Philippines,
Indonesia, Vietnam, India, Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan. The activities of the Corporate and Other segment consist of the AIA Group's corporate functions, shared services and eliminations of
intragroup transactions.   

  Because
each reportable segment other than the Corporate and Other segment focuses on serving the life insurance needs of its local market there are limited transactions between reportable segments.
The key performance indicators reported in respect of each segment are:  

ANP;   
           TWPI;   
           investment income (excluding investment income in respect of unit-linked contracts);    
           operating expenses;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
40  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)    

operating profit before tax (see Note 4);   
           expense ratio, measured as operating expenses divided by TWPI;   
           operating margin, measured as operating profit before tax (see above) expressed as a percentage of TWPI; and    
           operating return on allocated segment equity, measured as operating profit after tax attributable to shareholders of AIA
Group Limited expressed as a simple average of opening and closing allocated segment equity (being the segment assets less segment liabilities in respect of each reportable segment less
non-controlling interests, fair value and foreign currency translation reserves, and adjusted for subordinated intercompany debt).    

  In
presenting net capital in/(out) flows to reportable segments, capital outflows consist of dividends and profit distributions to the Corporate and Other segment and capital inflows consist of
capital injections into reportable segments by the Corporate and Other segment. For the Group, net capital in/(out) flows reflect the net amount received from shareholders by way of capital
contributions less amounts distributed by way of dividends.   

  Business
volumes in respect of the Group's five largest customers are less than 30 per cent of premiums and fee income.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
41  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Note:       (1)      Excludes investment income related to unit-linked contracts.
         Note:       (2)      Excludes corresponding changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities from investment experience for unit-linked
contracts and participating funds and investment income related to unit-linked contracts. It also excludes policyholders' share of tax relating to the change in insurance and investment
contract liabilities.
         Note:       (3)      Excludes investment management expenses related to unit-linked contracts.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
42  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Operating
profit/(loss) before tax may be reconciled to net profit/(loss) as follows:   

Allocated equity may be analysed as follows:   

Note:       (4)      Corporate and Other and Other Markets adjusted for subordinated intercompany debt provided to Other Markets of US$27m.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
43  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

  Segment information may be reconciled to the consolidated income statement as shown below:   

Other non-operating items in 2011 consist of restructuring and other
non-operating costs of US$50m (see Note 4).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
44  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Note:       (1)          Excludes investment income related to unit-linked contracts.
         Note:       (2)          Excludes corresponding changes in insurance and investment contract liabilities from investment
experience for unit-linked
contracts and participating funds and investment income related to unit-linked contracts. It also excludes policyholders' share of tax relating to the change in insurance and investment
contract liabilities.
         Note:       (3)          Excludes investment management expenses related to unit-linked contracts.
         Note:       (4)          Results of a subsidiary have been reclassified from China segment to Corporate and Other segment to
conform to current year presentation. As a
result, operating profit, allocated equity and net capital outflow of China segment have been increased by US$1m,US$(38)m and US$26m, respectively. The reclassification has no impact to the operating
profit, allocation equity and net capital outflow of the Group as of 30 November 2010.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
45  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Operating
profit/(loss) before tax may be reconciled to net profit/(loss) as follows:   

Allocated equity may be analysed as follows:   

Note:       (4)      Results of a subsidiary have been reclassified from China segment to Corporate and Other segment to conform to current year presentation. As a
result, operating profit, allocated equity and net capital outflow of China segment have been increased by US$1m,US$(38)m and US$26m, respectively. The reclassification has no impact to the operating
profit, allocated equity and net capital outflow of the Group as of 30 November 2010.              Note:       (5)
      Corporate and Other and Other Markets adjusted for subordinated intercompany debt provided to Other Markets of US$18m.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
46  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

6.    Segment information (continued)     

Segment
information may be reconciled to the consolidated income statement as shown below:   

Other non-operating items in 2010 consist of restructuring, separation and other non-operating costs of US$42m (see Note 4).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
47  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

7.    Revenue     

Investment return     

Other net realised gains include impairment of intangible assets of US$3m (2010: US$nil).   

Foreign
currency movements resulted in the following losses recognised in the income statement (other than gains and losses arising on items measured at fair value through profit or loss):   

Other operating revenue     

  The balance of other operating revenue largely consists of asset management fees.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
48  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

8.    Expenses     

Other operating expenses include auditors' remuneration of US$11m (2010: US$8m).   

  Investment
management expenses may be analysed as:   

Finance costs may be analysed as:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
49  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

8.    Expenses (continued)     

  Interest
expense includes US$4m (2010: US$5m) on bank loans, overdrafts and related party loans wholly repayable within five years.   

  Employee
benefit expenses consist of:   

9.    Income tax     

The tax benefit or expense attributable to Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia and New Zealand life insurance policyholder returns is included in the tax
charge or credit and is analysed separately in the consolidated income statement in order to permit comparison of the underlying effective rate of tax attributable to shareholders from year to year.
The tax attributable to policyholders' returns included above is US$47m charge (2010: US$135m charge).   

  The
provision for Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5%. Taxation for overseas subsidiaries and branches is charged at the appropriate current rates of taxation ruling in the relevant
jurisdictions of which the most significant jurisdictions are outlined below.   

The table above reflects the principal rate of corporate income taxes, as at the end of each year. The rate changes reflect changes to the enacted or
substantively enacted corporate tax rates throughout the period in each jurisdiction. The table above does not include prospective rate changes in corporate tax rates for Thailand and Korea which were
enacted after   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
50  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

9.    Income tax (continued)    

  30 November
2011. For Thailand, the corporate income tax rate will reduce to 23% for assessment year 2012 and 20% for assessment year 2013 and 2014 and will return to 30% for assessment year
2015 and onwards. For Korea, the corporate income tax rate was previously reduced to 22% for the assessment years beginning April 2012. Due to
changes in the tax law, the corporate income tax rate on the portion of assessable profits exceeding 20 billion Korean won will increase from 22% to 24.2% for the assessment years beginning
April 2012.   

Note:        (1)     Life insurance tax refers to the permanent differences which arise where the tax regime specific to the life insurance business does not adopt net
income as the basis for calculating taxable profit, for example Hong Kong, where life business taxable profit is derived from life premiums.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
51  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

9.    Income tax (continued)    

  The movement in net deferred tax liabilities in the period may be analysed as set out below:   

Note       (1)        Life surplus relates to the temporary difference which arises where the taxable profits are based on actual distributions from the
long-term fund. This primarily relates to Singapore and Malaysia.   
       (2)      Of the fair value reserve deferred tax charge/(credit) of US$66m (2010: US$286m) for 2011, US$69m (2010: US$290m)
relates to fair value gains and losses on available for sale financial assets and US$(3)m (2010: US$(4)m) relates to fair value gains and losses on available for sale financial assets transferred to
income on disposal and impairment.   
       (3)      The amount of US$(26)m includes a US$35m one-time adjustment in respect of deferred tax liability
attributable to policyholders' return.    

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
52  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

9.    Income tax (continued)    

  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that sufficient future taxable profits will be available for realisation. The Group has not recognised deferred
tax assets on tax losses and the temporary difference on insurance and investment contract liabilities arising from different accounting and statutory/tax reserving methodology for certain branches
and subsidiaries on the basis that they have histories of tax losses and there is insufficient evidence that future profits will be available.   

  Temporary
differences not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are:   

The Group has not provided deferred tax liabilities of US$53m (2010: US$48m) in respect of unremitted earnings of operations in one jurisdiction from which a
withholding tax charge would be incurred upon distribution as the Group does not consider it probable that this portion of accumulated earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future.   

  The
Group has unused income tax losses carried forward in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand. The tax losses of Hong Kong and Malaysia can be carried forward indefinitely.
The tax losses of the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand are due to expire within the periods ending 2014 (the Philippines), 2015 (Indonesia) and 2016 (Thailand).      

10.    Earnings per share     

Basic     

  Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to shareholders of AIA Group Limited by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares in issue during the year. The shares held by employee share-based trusts are not considered to be outstanding from the date of the purchase for purposes of computing basic and diluted
earnings per share.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
53  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

10.    Earnings per share (continued)     

Diluted     

  Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares. As of 30 November 2011, the Group has potentially dilutive instruments which are the share options, restricted share units and restricted share purchase units granted
to eligible employees, directors and officers under share-based compensation plans as described in Note 37. As of 30 November 2010, the Group had no potential dilutive instruments in
issue.   

At 30 November 2011, 20,426,519 share options were excluded from the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation as their effect would
have been anti-dilutive.   

Operating profit after tax per share     

  Operating profit after tax (see Note 4) per share is calculated by dividing the operating profit after tax attributable to shareholders of AIA
Group Limited by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. As of 30 November 2011, the Group has potentially dilutive instruments which are the share options,
restricted share units and restricted share purchase units to eligible employees, directors and officers under share-based compensation plans as described in Note 37. As of 30 November
2010, the Group had no potential dilutive instruments in issue.   

11.    Dividends     

Dividends to shareholders of the Company attributable to the year:   

Note       (1)        Based upon shares outstanding at 30 November 2011 that are entitled to a dividend.      

The above final dividend was proposed by the board on 24 February 2012 subject to shareholders approval at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2012. The
proposed final dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
54  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

12.    Intangible assets     

Of the above, US$250m (2010: US$241m) is expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.   

  Goodwill
arises primarily in respect of the Group's insurance businesses. Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the present value of expected future cash
flows plus a multiple of the present value of the new business generated.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
55  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

13.    Investments in associates     

The Group's interest in its principal associates is as follows:   

All associates are unlisted.   

Aggregated financial information of associates     

Investments in associates are held for their long-term contribution to the Group's performance and so all amounts are expected to be realised more
than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
56  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

14.    Property, plant and equipment     

The Group holds freehold land outside Hong Kong and leasehold land under finance lease in the form of property, plant and equipment. An analysis of the carrying
value of the Group's interest in those land and land use rights is set out in Note 22.   

The
Group holds property, plant and equipment for its long-term use and, accordingly, the annual depreciation charge approximates to the amount expected to be recovered through consumption
within 12 months after the end of the reporting period.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
57  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

15.    Investment property     

The Group holds investment property for the long-term, and so the annual amortisation charge approximates to the amount expected to be recovered
within 12 months after the reporting period.   

  The
Group leases out its investment property under operating leases. The leases typically run for an initial period of two to twelve years, with an option to renew the lease based on future
negotiations. Lease payments are usually negotiated every two years to reflect market rentals. None of the leases include contingent rentals. Rental income generated from investment properties
amounted to US$76m (2010: US$62m). Direct operating expenses (including repair and maintenance) on investment property that generates rental income amounted to US$9m (2010: US$10m).   

  The
Group owns investment property in the form of freehold land outside Hong Kong and leasehold land under finance lease. The Group does not hold freehold land in Hong Kong. An analysis of the
carrying value of the Group's interest in those land and land use right is set out in Note 22.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
58  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

15.    Investment property (continued)    

  The
future minimum operating lease rental income under non-cancellable operating leases that the Group expects to receive in future periods may be analysed as follows:   

16.    Fair value of investment property and property held for use     

Note       (1)        Carrying and fair values are presented before non-controlling interests and, for assets held in participating funds, before
allocation to policyholders.

17.    Reinsurance assets     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
59  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

18.    Deferred acquisition and origination costs     

Deferred acquisition and origination costs are expected to be recoverable over the mean term of the Group's insurance and investment contracts, and liability
adequacy testing is performed at least annually to confirm their recoverability. Accordingly, the annual amortisation charge, which varies with investment performance for certain universal life and
unit-linked products, approximates to the amount which is expected to be realised within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.      

19.    Financial investments     

  The
following tables analyse the AIA Group's financial investments by type and nature. The AIA Group manages its financial investments in two distinct categories:
Unit-linked Investments and Policyholder and Shareholder Investments. The investment risk in respect of Unit-linked Investments is generally wholly borne by our customers, and
does not directly affect the profit for the year before tax. Furthermore, unit-linked contract holders are responsible for allocation of their policy values amongst investment options
offered by the Group. Although profit for the year before tax is not affected by Unit-linked Investments, the investment return from such financial investments is included in the AIA
Group's profit for the year before tax, as the AIA Group has elected the fair value option for all Unit-linked Investments with corresponding change in insurance and investment contract
liabilities for unit-linked contracts. Policyholder and Shareholder Investments include all financial investments other than Unit-linked Investments. The investment risk in
respect of Policyholder and Shareholder Investments is partially or wholly borne by the Group.   

  Policyholder
and Shareholder Investments are further categorised as Participating Funds and Other Policyholder and Shareholder. The Group has elected to separately analyse financial investments held
by Participating Funds within Policyholder and Shareholder Investments as they are subject to local regulations that generally prescribe a minimum proportion of policyholder participation in declared
dividends. The Group has elected the fair value option for debt and equity securities of Participating Funds. The Group's accounting policy is to record an insurance liability for the proportion of
net assets of the Participating Fund that would be allocated to policyholders assuming all performance would be declared as a dividend based upon local regulations as at the date of the statement of
financial position. As a result the Group's net profit for the year before tax is impacted by the proportion of investment return that would be allocated to shareholders as described in the previous
sentence.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
60  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

  Other
Policyholder and Shareholder Investments are distinct from Unit-linked Investments and Participating Funds as there is no direct contractual or regulatory requirement governing the
amount, if any, for allocation to policyholders. The Group has elected to apply the fair value option for equity securities in this category and the available for sale classification in respect of the
majority of debt securities in this category. The investment risk from investments in this category directly impacts the Group's financial statements. Although a proportion of investment return may be
allocated to policyholders through policyholder dividends, the Group's accounting policy for insurance and certain investment contract liabilities utilises a net level premium methodology that
includes best estimates as at the date of issue for non-guaranteed participation. To the extent investment return from these investments either is not allocated to participating contracts
or varies from the best estimates, it will impact the Group's profit before tax.   

  In
the following tables, "FVTPL" indicates financial investments designated at fair value through profit or loss and "AFS" indicates financial investments classified as available for
sale.   

Debt securities     

  In compiling the tables, external ratings have been used where available. Where external ratings are not readily available an internal rating
methodology has been adopted. The following conventions have been adopted to conform the various ratings.   

External ratings   

Internal ratings    
     
   Reported as    

Standard and Poor's    
     
   Moody's    

AAA   
     
    Aaa   

1   

AAA   

AA+ to AA-   
     
    Aa1 to Aa3   

2+ to 2-   

AA   

A+ to A-   
     
    A1 to A3   

3+ to 3-   

A   

BBB+ to BBB-   
     
    Baa1 to Baa3   

4+ to 4-   

BBB   

BB+ and below   
     
    Ba1 and below   

5+ and below   

Below investment grade   
    (1)    

Note:        (1)     Unless otherwise identified individually.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
61  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

  Debt securities by type comprise the following:   

Note:        (1)     Of the total government bonds listed as 'Other' at 30 November 2011, 88% is rated as investment grade and a further 8% is rated BB-
and above. The balance is rated below BB- or unrated.   
       Note:       (2)     Government agency bonds comprise bonds issued by government sponsored institutions such as provincial and municipal authorities
and supranational financial institutions, such as the Asian Development Bank.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
62  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Note:        (3)     Structured securities include collateralised debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed
securities.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
63  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Note:        (1)     Of the total government bonds listed as 'Other' at 30 November 2010, 89% is rated as investment grade and a further 10% is rated
BB- and above. The balance is rated below BB- or unrated.   
       Note:       (2)     Government agency bonds comprise bonds issued by government sponsored institutions such as provincial and municipal authorities
and supranational financial institutions, such as the Asian Development Bank.    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
64  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Note:        (3)     Structured securities include collateralised debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities.    

Equity securities     

  Equity securities by type comprise the following:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
65  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

19.    Financial investments (continued)    

Debt and equity securities     

Loans and deposits     

Certain term deposits with financial institutions are restricted due to local regulatory requirements or other pledge restrictions. The restricted balance held
within the term deposits classification is US$130m (2010: US$113m).   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
66  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

20.    Derivative financial instruments     

The Group's non-hedge derivative exposure was as follows:   

For swap transactions, both pay and receive legs of the transaction have been disclosed in the column 'notional amount'.   

  Of
the total derivatives, US$1m (2010: US$3m) are listed in exchange or dealer markets and the rest are over the counter ('OTC') derivatives. OTC derivative contracts are individually negotiated
between contracting parties and include forwards and swaps. Derivatives are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial
instruments.   

  Derivative
assets and derivative liabilities are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial
liabilities respectively. The Group's derivative risk management policies are outlined in Note 35. The Group does not employ hedge accounting, although most of its derivative holdings may have
the effect of an economic hedge of other exposures. The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities in the consolidated
statement of financial position as they do not represent the fair value of these transactions. The notional amounts in the previous table reflect the aggregate of individual derivative positions on a
gross basis and so give an indication of the overall scale of derivative transactions.   

Foreign exchange contracts     

  Forward exchange contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed price and
settlement date. Currency options are agreements that give the buyer the right to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at agreed prices and settlement dates.
Currency swaps are contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
67  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

20.    Derivative financial instruments (continued)    

Exposure
to gain and loss on the foreign exchange contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, implied
volatilities of the underlying indices, and the timing of payments.   

Interest rate swaps     

  Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two parties to exchange periodic payments in the same currency, each of which is computed on a
different interest rate basis, on a specified notional
amount. Most interest rate swaps involve the net exchange of payments calculated as the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest payments.   

Other derivatives     

  Warrants and call options are option agreements that give the owner the right to buy shares at an agreed price and settlement date. Credit default
swaps ("CDS") represent agreements that allow the transfer of third party credit risk from the protection buyer to the seller. The Group purchased the CDS as a protection on the specific corporate
debt portfolio by making a series of payments to the seller of the CDS. The Group will be compensated if the reference corporate debt defaults during the CDS contract period.

21.    Fair value of financial instruments     

The Group classifies all financial assets as either at fair value through profit or loss, or as available for sale, which are carried at fair value, or as loans and receivables, which are carried at
amortised cost. Financial liabilities are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, except for investment contracts with DPF which are accounted for under
IFRS 4.   

  The
following tables present the fair values of the Group's financial assets and financial liabilities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
68  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

Note:        (1)     Excludes third party interests in consolidated investment funds      

Note:        (1)     Excludes third party interests in consolidated investment funds      

  The carrying amount of assets included in the above tables represents the maximum credit exposure.   

Foreign
currency exposure, including the net notional amount of foreign currency derivative positions, is shown in Note 35 for the Group's key foreign exchange exposures.   

  The
fair value of investment contract liabilities measured at amortised cost is not considered to be materially different from the amortised cost carrying value.   

  The
carrying value of financial instruments expected to be settled within 12 months (after taking into account valuation allowances, where applicable) is not considered to be materially
different from the fair value.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
69  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

Fair value measurements on a recurring basis     

  The Group measures at fair value financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss, available for sale securities portfolios,
derivative assets and liabilities, investments held by investment funds which are consolidated, investments in non-consolidated investment funds and certain investment contract liabilities
on a recurring basis. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received on sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date.   

  The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active
markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in other than active markets or that do not have quoted
prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the asset
or liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.   

  An
other than active market is one in which there are few transactions, the prices are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which little
information is released publicly for the asset or liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial
instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market conditions.   

The
following methods and assumptions were used by the Group to estimate the fair value of financial instruments.   

Financial assets and liabilities     

Loans and receivables     

  For loans and advances that are repriced frequently and have had no significant changes in credit risk, carrying amounts represent a reasonable
estimate of fair values. The fair values of other loans are
estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using interest rates offered for similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings.   

  The
fair values of mortgage loans are estimated by discounting future cash flows using interest rates currently being offered in respect of similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings. The
fair values of fixed rate policy loans are estimated by discounting cash flows at the interest rates charged on policy loans of similar policies currently being issued. Loans with similar
characteristics are aggregated for purposes of the calculations. The carrying values of policy loans with variable rates approximate to their fair value.   

Debt securities and equity securities     

  The fair values of equity securities are based on quoted market prices or, if unquoted, on estimated market values generally based on quoted prices
for similar securities. Fair values for fixed interest securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. For those securities not actively traded, fair values are estimated using values
obtained from private pricing services or by discounting expected future cash flows using a current market rate applicable to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment. For holdings in
hedge funds and limited partnerships, fair values are determined based on the net asset values provided by the general partner or manager of each investment, the accounts of which are generally
audited on an annual basis. The transaction price is used as the best estimate of fair value at inception.   

Derivative financial instruments     

  The Group values its derivative financial assets and liabilities using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including
market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models
are used, the selection of a particular model to value a derivative depends on the contract terms of, and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing information
in the market. The Group generally uses similar models to   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
70  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

  value
similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and
correlations of such inputs. For derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be verified and model selection does not involve
significant management judgment. Examples of inputs that are generally observable include foreign exchange spot and forward rates, benchmark interest rate curves and volatilities for commonly traded
option products. Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatilities for less commonly traded option products and correlations between market factors.   

Cash and cash equivalents     

The carrying amount of cash approximates its fair value.   

Reinsurance receivables     

  The carrying amount of amounts receivable from reinsurers is not considered materially different to their fair value.   

Fair value of securities sold under repurchase agreement and the associated payables     

  The contract values of payables under repurchase agreements approximate fair value as these obligations are short term in nature.   

Other assets     

  The carrying amount of other assets is not materially different to their fair value. The fair values of deposits with banks are generally based on
quoted market prices or, if unquoted, on estimates based on discounting future cash flows using available market interest rates offered for receivables with similar characteristics.   

Investment contract liabilities     

  For investment contract liabilities the fair values have been estimated using a discounted cash flow approach based on interest rates currently being
offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued. For investment contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policyholder the fair
value generally approximates to the fair value of the underlying assets.   

  Investment
contracts with DPF enable the contract holder to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits. These are referred to as participating business and are measured and
classified according to the Group practice for insurance contract liabilities and hence are disclosed within Note 24. These are not measured at fair value as there is currently no agreed
definition of fair value for investment and insurance contracts with DPF under IFRS. In the absence of any agreed methodology it is not possible to provide a range of estimates within which fair value
is likely to fall. The IASB is expecting to address this issue in Phase II of its insurance contracts project.   

Borrowings     

  The fair values of borrowings with stated maturities have been estimated based on discounting future cash flows using the interest rates currently
applicable to deposits of similar maturities.   

Other liabilities     

  The fair values of other unquoted liabilities is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using current market rates applicable to their
yield, credit quality and maturity, except for those with no stated maturity, where the carrying value approximates to fair value.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
71  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)     

Fair value hierarchy     

  Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position are measured and classified in a hierarchy for
disclosure purposes consisting of three 'levels' based on the observability of inputs available in the market place used to measure their fair values as discussed below:   

Level 1:     Fair
value measurements that are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group has the ability to access as of the measurement date. Market price data is
generally obtained from exchange or dealer markets. The Group does not adjust the quoted price for such instruments. Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 1
are actively traded listed equities. The Group considers that government debt securities issued by G7 countries (United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom) and traded in
a dealer market to be Level 1, until they no longer trade with sufficient frequency and volume to be considered actively traded.     
            Level 2:     Fair
value measurements based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active and inputs
other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset and liability, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Assets and liabilities measured at
fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2 generally include government securities issued by non-G7 countries, most investment grade corporate bonds, hedge fund
investments and derivative contracts.     
            Level 3:     Fair
value measurements based on valuation techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are only used to measure fair value to the extent that relevant observable
inputs are not available, allowing for circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
and classified as Level 3 include certain classes of structured securities, certain derivative contracts, private equity and real estate fund investments, and direct private equity investments.    

  In
certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value
measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Group's assessment of the significance of a
particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, the Group considers factors specific to the asset or liability.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
72  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

  A
summary of investments carried at fair value according to fair value hierarchy is given below:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
73  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)    

The tables below set out a summary of changes in the Group's Level 3 financial assets and liabilities for the year ended 30 November 2010 and 2011.
The tables reflect gains and losses, including gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities categorised as Level 3 as at 30 November 2010 and 2011.   

Level 3 financial assets and liabilities     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
74  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

21.    Fair value of financial instruments (continued)     

Realised gains and losses arising from the disposal of the Group's Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are presented in the consolidated income
statement.   

  Movements
in investment contract liabilities at fair value are offset by movements in the underlying portfolio of matching assets. Details of the movement in investment contract liabilities are
provided in Note 25.   

  There
are no differences between the fair values on initial recognition and the amounts determined using valuation techniques since the models adopted are calibrated using initial transaction prices.

22.    Other assets     

All amounts other than prepayments in respect of operating leases of leasehold land are expected to be recovered within 12 months after the end of the
reporting period. Prepayments in respect of operating leases of land are expected to be recovered over the period of the leases shown below.   

  Receivables
include receivables from reverse repurchase agreements under which the Group does not take physical possession of securities purchased under the agreements. Sales or transfers of
securities are not permitted by the respective clearing house on which they are registered while the loan is outstanding. In the event of default by the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
75  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

22.    Other assets (continued)    

  counterparty
to repay the loan, the Group has the right to the underlying securities held by the clearing house. At 30 November 2011, the carrying value of such receivables is US$156m (2010:
US$36m).   

  Below
sets out an analysis of the Group's interest in land and land use rights.   

23.    Cash and cash equivalents     

Note:        (1)     Of cash and cash equivalents, US$788m (2010: US$495m) are held to back unit-linked contracts.    

  Cash comprises cash at bank and cash in hand. Cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and highly liquid short term investments with maturities at acquisition of
three months or less and money market funds. Accordingly, all such amounts are expected to be realised within 12 months after the reporting period.      

24.    Insurance contract liabilities     

Note:   

(1)   

Valuation premiums and deposits and fees from account balances have been grossed up by US$205m in 2010 to conform to the current year presentation.   

(2)   

Premium deposits of US$249m, other policy benefits paid of US$(1,185)m, change in unearned revenue liabilities of US$301m and policyholders' share of participating surplus of US$743m in 2010 have been reclassified from "Other movements" to "Valuation
premiums and deposits", "Liabilities released for policy termination or other policy benefits paid and related expenses", "Fees from account balances", and "Change in net asset values to policyholders" respectively to conform to the current year
presentation.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
76  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

24.    Insurance contract liabilities (continued)     

Business description     

  The table below summarises the key variables on which insurance and investment contract cash flows depend.   

Type of contract    

Material terms and conditions    

Nature of benefits and 
compensation for claims    

Factors 
affecting 
contract cash 
flows    

Key 
reportable 
segments    

Traditional 
participating 
life assurance 
with DPF  
     
  Participating 
funds  
     
  Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends, the aggregate amount of which is determined by the performance of a
distinct fund of assets and liabilities. The timing of dividend declarations is at the discretion of the insurer. Local regulations generally prescribe a minimum proportion of policyholder participation in declared dividends  
     
  Minimum guaranteed benefits may be enhanced based on investment experience and other considerations  

Investment 
    performance 

Expenses 

Mortality 

Surrenders  
     
  Singapore, 
China, 
Malaysia  

Other 
participating 
business  
     
  Participating products combine protection with a savings element. The basic sum assured, payable on death or maturity, may be enhanced by dividends, the timing or amount of which is at the discretion of the insurer taking
into account factors such as investment experience  
     
  Minimum guaranteed benefits may be enhanced based on investment experience and other considerations  

Investment 
    performance 

Expenses 

Mortality 

Surrenders  
     
  Hong Kong, 
Thailand, 
Other Markets  

Traditional non-participating life  
     
  Benefits paid on death, maturity, sickness or disability that are fixed and guaranteed and not at the discretion of the insurer  
     
  Benefits, defined in the insurance contract, are determined by the contract and are not affected by investment performance or the performance of the contract as a whole  

Mortality 

Morbidity 

Lapses 

Expenses  
     
  All (1)   

Accident and health  
     
  These products provide morbidity or sickness benefits and include health, disability, critical illness and accident cover  
     
  Benefits, defined in the insurance contract are determined by the contract and are not affected by investment performance or the performance of the contract as a whole  

Mortality 

Morbidity 

Lapses 

Expenses 

Claims 
    experience  
     
  All (1)   

Unit-linked  

Unit-linked contracts combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depending on the value of unitised funds  
     
  Benefits are based on the value of the unitised funds and death benefits  

Investment 
    performance 

Lapses 

Expenses 

Mortality  
     
  All (1)   

Universal life  

The customer pays flexible premiums subject to specified limits accumulated in an account balance which are credited with interest at a rate set by the insurer, and a death benefit which may be varied by the
customer  
     
  Benefits are based on the account balance and death benefit  

Investment 
    performance 

Crediting rates 

Lapses 

Expenses 

Mortality  
     
  All (1)   

Note:        (1)     Other than the Group's corporate and other segment      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
77  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

24.    Insurance contract liabilities (continued)    

Methodology and assumptions   

  The most significant items to which profit for the period and shareholders' equity are sensitive are market, insurance and lapse risks which are shown
in the table below. Indirect exposure indicates that there is a second order impact. For example, whilst the profit for the period attributable to shareholders is not directly affected by investment
income earned where the investment risk is borne by policyholders (for example, in respect of unit-linked contracts), there is a second order effect through the investment management fees
which the Group earns by managing such investments. The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative sensitivity to each of these items. Where the direct
exposure is shown as being 'net neutral' this is because the exposure to market and credit risk is offset by a corresponding movement in insurance contract liabilities.   

Market and credit risk   

Direct exposure   

Type of contract    

Insurance and 
investment contract 
liabilities    

Risks 
associated with 
related investment 
portfolio    

Indirect exposure    

Significant 
insurance 
and lapse risks    

Traditional 
participating 
life assurance 
with DPF  
     
  Participating 
funds  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Investment performance subject to smoothing through dividend declarations  

Impact of persistency on future dividends 

Mortality  

Other 
participating 
business  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Net neutral except for the insurer's share of participating investment performance 

Guarantees  

Investment performance  

Impact of persistency on future dividends 

Mortality  

Traditional non-participating 
life assurance  

Investment performance 

Credit risk 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Guarantees 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Not applicable  

Mortality 

Persistency 

Morbidity  

Accident and health  

Loss ratio 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Investment performance 

Credit risk 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Not applicable  

Claims experience 

Morbidity 

Persistency  

Pensions  

Net neutral 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Net neutral 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Performance related investment management fees  

Persistency  

Unit-linked  

Net neutral  

Net neutral  

Performance related investment management fees  

Persistency 

Mortality  

Universal life  

Guarantees 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Investment performance 

Credit risk 

Asset liability mismatch risk  

Spread between earned rate and crediting rate to policyholders  

Mortality 

Persistency 

Withdrawals  

The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of its operations, and to interest rate risk, credit risk and equity price risk on assets representing net
shareholders' equity, and to expense risk to the extent that actual expenses exceed those that can be charged to insurance and investment contract holders on non-participating business.
Expense assumptions applied in the Group's actuarial valuation models assume a continuing level of business volumes.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
78  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

24.    Insurance contract liabilities (continued)     

Valuation interest rates   

  As at 30 November 2010 and 2011, the range of applicable valuation interest rates for traditional insurance contracts, which vary by territory,
year of issuance and products, within the first 20 years are as follows:   

25.    Investment contract liabilities     

26.    Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates     

The table below sets out the sensitivities of the assumptions in respect of insurance and investment contracts with DPF to key variables. This disclosure only allows for the impact on liabilities and
related assets, such as reinsurance, and deferred acquisition costs and does not allow for offsetting movements in the fair value of financial assets backing those liabilities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
79  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

26.    Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates (continued)    

  Future policy benefits for traditional life insurance policies (including investment contracts with DPF) are calculated using a net level premium valuation
method with reference to best estimate assumptions set at policy inception date unless a deficiency arises on liability adequacy testing. There is no impact of the above assumption sensitivities on
the carrying amount of traditional life insurance liabilities as the sensitivities presented would not have triggered a liability adequacy adjustment. During the periods presented there was no effect
of changes in assumptions and estimates on the Group's traditional life products.   

  For
interest sensitive insurance contracts, such as universal life products and unit-linked contracts, assumptions are made at each reporting date including mortality, persistency,
expenses, future investment earnings and future crediting rates.   

  The
impact of changes in assumptions on the valuation of insurance and investment contracts with DPF was US$12m decrease in profit (2010: US$15m decrease).      

27.    Borrowings     

Properties with a book value of US$762m at 30 November 2011 (2010: US$760m) and a fair value of US$1,809m at 30 November 2011 (2010: US$1,675m) and
cash and cash equivalents with a book value of US$66m (2010: US$63m) are pledged as security with respect to amounts disclosed as bank loans above. Interest on loans reflects market rates of interest.
Interest expense on borrowings is shown in Note 8. Further information relating to interest rates and the maturity profile of borrowings is presented in Note 35.

28.    Obligations under securities lending and repurchase agreements     

The Group has entered into securities lending agreement whereby securities are loaned to a national monetary authority. In addition, the Group has entered into repurchase agreements whereby securities
are sold to third parties with a concurrent agreement to repurchase the securities at a specified date.   

The
securities related to these agreements are not derecognised from the Group's consolidated statement of financial position, but are retained within the appropriate financial asset classification.
The following table specifies the amounts included within financial investments subject to securities lending or repurchase agreements at each period end:   

Collateral     

  The Group received collateral based on the initial market value of the securities lent in the form of promissory notes issued by the national monetary
authority; both the securities lent and the collateral are denominated in local currency. In   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
80  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

28.    Obligations under securities lending and repurchase agreements (continued)    

  the
absence of default, the Group cannot sell or repledge the collateral and it is not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.   

The
following table shows the obligations under repurchase agreements at each period end:   

29.    Impairment of financial assets     

Impairment of financial assets     

  In accordance with the Group's accounting policies, impairment reviews were performed for available for sale securities and loans and receivables.   

Available for sale debt securities     

  During the year ended 30 November 2011, impairment losses of US$nil (2010: US$1m) were recognised in respect of available for sale debt
securities.   

  The
carrying amounts of available for sale debt securities that are individually determined to be impaired at 30 November 2011 was US$59m (2010: US$57m).   

Loans and deposits     

  The Group's primary potential credit risk exposure in respect of loans and deposits arises in respect of policy loans and a portfolio of mortgage
loans on residential and commercial real estate (see Note 19 Financial investments for further details). The Group's credit exposure on policy loans is mitigated because, if and when the total
indebtedness on any policy, including interest due and accrued, exceeds the cash surrender value, the policy terminates and becomes void. The Group has a first lien on all policies which are subject
to policy loans.   

  The
carrying amounts of loans and deposits that are individually determined to be impaired at 30 November 2011 was US$39m (2010: US$30m).   

  The
Group has a portfolio of residential and commercial mortgage loans which it originates. To the extent that any such loans are past their due dates specific allowance is made, together with a
collective allowance, based on historical delinquency. Insurance receivables are short term in nature and cover is not provided if consideration is not received. An ageing of accounts receivable is
not provided as all amounts are due within 1 year and cover is cancelled if consideration is not received.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
81  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

30.    Provisions     

Further details of provisions for employee post-retirement benefits are provided in Note 36.   

Other provisions     

  Other provisions comprise provisions in respect of regulatory matters, litigation, reorganisation and restructuring. In view of the diverse nature of
the matters provided for and the contingent nature of the matters to which they relate the Group is unable to provide an accurate assessment of the term over which provisions are expected to be
utilised.      

31.    Other liabilities     

Third party interests in consolidated investment funds consist of third party unit holders' interests in consolidated investment funds which are reflected as a
liability since they can be put back to the Group for cash.   

  Trade
and other payables are all expected to be settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period. The realisation of third party interests in investment funds cannot be predicted
with accuracy since these represent the interests of third party unit holders in consolidated investment funds held to back insurance and investment contract liabilities and are subject to market risk
and the actions of third party investors.      
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
82  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

32.    Share capital and reserves     

Share capital     

There were no shares issued under share option schemes in the period.   

  Except
for the purchase of 30,540,802 shares by the Company under the Company's Restricted Share Unit Scheme and Employee Share Purchase Plan, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries
purchased, sold or redeemed any of the Company's listed securities during the financial year ended 30 November 2011. These purchases were made by the relevant scheme trustees on the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange. These shares are held on trust for participants of the relevant schemes and therefore were not cancelled. Please refer to Note 37 for details.   

  Share
premium of US$1,914m represents the difference between the net book value of the Group on acquisition by the Company of US$13,958m and the nominal value of the share capital issued of
US$12,044m.   

Reserves     

Fair value reserve     

  The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available for sale securities held at the end of the reporting period.   

Foreign currency translation reserve     

  The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements
of foreign operations.   

Shares held by employee share-based trusts     

  Trusts have been established to acquire shares of the Company for distribution to participants in future periods through the share-based compensation
schemes. Those shares acquired by the trusts, to the extent not transferred to the participants upon vesting, are reported as 'Employee share-based trusts'.   

Other reserves     

  Other reserves include the impact of merger accounting for business combinations under common control and share-based compensation.

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
83  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

33.    Non-controlling interests     

34.    Group capital structure     

Capital Management Approach     

  The Group's capital management objectives focus on maintaining a strong capital base to support the development of its business, maintaining the
ability to move capital freely and satisfying regulatory capital requirements at all times.   

  The
Group's capital management function oversees all capital related activities of the Group and assists senior management in making capital decisions. The capital management function participates in
decisions concerning asset-liability management, strategic asset allocation and ongoing solvency management. This includes ensuring capital considerations are paramount in the strategy and business
planning processes and when determining AIA's capacity to pay dividends to shareholders.   

Regulatory Solvency     

  The Group is in compliance with the solvency and capital adequacy requirements applied by its regulators. The Group's primary insurance regulator at
the AIA Co. and AIA-B levels is the Hong Kong Office of the Commissioner of Insurance ('HK OCI'), which requires that AIA Co. and AIA-B meet the solvency margin
requirements of the Hong Kong Insurance Companies Ordinance. The Hong Kong Insurance Companies Ordinance (among other matters) sets minimum solvency margin requirements that an insurer must meet in
order to be authorised to carry on insurance business in or from Hong Kong. The HK OCI requires AIA Co. and AIA-B to maintain an excess of assets over liabilities of not less than
the
required minimum solvency margin. The amount required under the Hong Kong Insurance Companies Ordinance is 100% of the required minimum solvency margin. The excess of assets over liabilities to be
maintained by AIA Co. and AIA-B required by the HK OCI is not less than 150% of the required minimum solvency margin.   

The
capital positions of the Group's two principal operating companies as of 30 November 2010 and 2011 are as follows:   

For these purposes, the Group defines total available capital as the amount of assets in excess of liabilities measured in accordance with the Insurance
Companies Ordinance and 'required capital' as the minimum required margin of solvency calculated in accordance with the Insurance Companies Ordinance. The solvency margin ratio is the ratio of total
available capital to required capital.   

  The
Group's individual branches and subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of government regulators in the jurisdictions in which those branches and subsidiaries operate and, in relation to
subsidiaries, in which they are incorporated. The various regulators overseeing the Group actively monitor our local solvency positions. AIA Co. and AIA-B submit annual filings to
the HK OCI of their solvency margin position based on their annual audited accounts, and the Group's other operating units perform similar annual filings with their respective local regulators.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
84  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

34.    Group capital structure (continued)    

  The
ability of the Company to pay dividends to shareholders and to meet other obligations depends ultimately on dividends and other payments being received from its operating subsidiaries and
branches, which are subject to contractual, regulatory and other limitations. The various regulators overseeing the individual branches and subsidiaries of the Group have the discretion to impose
additional restrictions on the ability of those regulated subsidiaries and branches to make payment of dividends or other distributions and payments to AIA Co., including increasing the
required margin of solvency that an operating unit must maintain. For example, capital may not be remitted from Thailand without the consent of the Office of the Insurance Commission in Thailand. The
payment of dividends, distributions and other payments to shareholders is subject to the oversight of the HK OCI.   

Capital and Regulatory Orders Specific to the Group     

  Since September 2008, certain regulators of the Group imposed additional requirements or restrictions on certain of its branches and subsidiaries.
These requirements and restrictions may be or may have been amended or revoked at the relevant regulator's discretion. As of 30 November 2011, the requirements and restrictions summarised below
may be considered material to the Group and remain in effect unless otherwise stated.   

Hong Kong Office of the Commissioner of Insurance   

  By a letter dated 18 September 2008 to AIA Co. and AIA-B ("Section 35 Controller Orders"), the Insurance Authority required AIA Co.
and AIA-B not to acquire a new controller who, alone or with any associate or through a nominee, is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 15% or more of the voting power at
their general meetings or the general meetings of their parent companies without first obtaining written consent from the Insurance Authority.   

  On
29 October 2010, the Insurance Authority varied the Section 35 Controller Orders such that prior consent of the Insurance Authority is not required where any person becomes a
controller (within the meaning of section 9(1)(c)(ii) of the HKICO) of AIA Co. and AIA-B through the acquisition of shares traded on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Stock
Limited (HKSE).   

  AIG
has given the Insurance Authority an undertaking that, with effect from 29 October 2010 and for so long as AIG directly or indirectly holds a legal or beneficial interest in AIA Group
Limited in excess of 10% of the outstanding or issued share capital of AIA Group Limited (or AIG directly or indirectly is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting
power at any general meeting of AIA Group Limited), AIG will ensure that, except with the prior written consent of the Insurance Authority:   

(i)    any
AIG Group holder of AIG's interest in AIA Group Limited that is controlled by AIG will abstain from voting in any shareholder vote of AIA Group Limited
for the approval of a dividend distribution to AIA Group Limited's shareholders; and
      (ii)    AIG
will not, either directly or indirectly or through a member of the AIG Group that AIG controls: (a) accept any deposit from any member of the
AIA Group; (b) be the recipient of any assets transferred from any member of the AIA Group except for (x) normal insurance transactions or any arrangements on normal commercial terms in
place as of the date of the undertaking (including renewals thereof), and (y) dividends distributed to shareholders of AIA Group Limited that have been approved by the other shareholders of AIA
Group Limited; or (c) accept any financial assistance (i.e., the granting of credit, lending of money, providing of security for or the guaranteeing of a loan) from any member of the AIA
Group.    

AIA
Group Limited has given to the Insurance Authority an undertaking that AIA Group Limited will:   

(i)    ensure
that (a) AIA Co. and AIA-B will at all times maintain a solvency ratio of not less than 150%, both on an individual insurer
basis and on an AIA Co./AIA-B consolidated basis; (b) it will not withdraw capital or transfer any funds or assets out of either AIA Co. or AIA-B that will
cause AIA Co.'s or AIA-B's solvency ratio to fall below 150%, except with, in either case, the prior written consent of the Insurance Authority; and (c) should the solvency
ratio of either AIA Co. or AIA-B fall below 150%, AIA Group Limited will take steps as soon as possible to restore it to at least 150% in a manner acceptable to the Insurance
Authority;    

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
85  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

34.    Group capital structure (continued)    

(ii)    ensure
that, for so long as AIG directly or indirectly holds a legal or beneficial interest in AIA Group Limited in excess of 10% of the outstanding or
issued share capital of AIA Group Limited (or AIG directly or indirectly is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting power at any general meeting of AIA Group
Limited), AIA Co. and AIA-B shall not, without first obtaining written consent from the Insurance Authority: (a) place any deposit with AIG and/or any member of the AIG Group
that AIG controls (excluding the Company, its subsidiaries and their branches); (b) transfer any assets to AIG and/or any member of the AIG Group that AIG controls (excluding the Company, its
subsidiaries and their branches), except for normal insurance transactions or any arrangements on normal commercial terms in place as of the date of the undertaking (including renewals thereof); or
(c) provide any financial assistance to AIG and/or any member of the AIG Group that AIG controls (excluding the Company, its subsidiaries and their branches);
      (iii)    notify
the Insurance Authority in writing as soon as the Company becomes aware of any person (a) becoming a controller (within the meaning of
Section 9(1)(c)(ii) of the HKICO) of AIA Co. and AIA-B through the acquisition of our Shares traded on the HKSE; or (b) ceasing to be a controller (within the meaning
of Section 9(1)(c)(ii) of the HKICO) of AIA Co. and AIA-B through the disposal of our Shares traded on the HKSE;
      (iv)    be
subject to the supervision of the Insurance Authority and AIA Group Limited will be required to continually comply with the Insurance Authority's
guidance on the "fit and proper" standards of a controller pursuant to Section 8(2) of the HKICO. The Insurance Authority is empowered by the HKICO to raise objection if it appears to it that
any person is not fit and proper to be a controller or director of an authorised insurer. These standards include the sufficiency of a holding company's financial resources; the viability of a holding
company's business plan for its insurance subsidiaries which are regulated by the Insurance Authority; the clarity of the Group's legal, managerial and operational structures; the identities of any
other holding companies or major regulated subsidiaries; whether the holding company, its directors or controllers is subject to receivership, administration, liquidation or other similar proceedings
or failed to satisfy any judgment debt under a court order or the subject of any criminal convictions or in breach of any statutory or regulatory requirements; the soundness of the Group's corporate
governance; the soundness of the Group's risk management framework; the receipt of information from its insurance subsidiaries which are regulated by the Insurance Authority to ensure that they are
managed in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulation; and its role in overseeing and managing the operations of its insurance subsidiaries which are regulated by the Insurance Authority;
and
      (v)    fulfil
all enhancements or improvements to the guidance referred to in sub-paragraph (iv) above, as well as administrative measures
issued from time to time by the Insurance Authority or requirements that may be prescribed by the Insurance Authority in accordance with the HKICO, regulations under the HKICO or Guidance Notes issued
by the Insurance Authority from time to time.

35.    Risk management     

Risk management framework     

  The managed acceptance of risk is fundamental to the Group's insurance business model. The Group's risk management framework seeks to effectively
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks the Group faces.   

  The
Group's central risk management framework requires all operations to establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the organisation. This risk management
framework has evolved in recent years and encompasses an established risk governance structure with clear oversight and assignment of responsibility for monitoring and management of financial,
operational and strategic risks.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
86  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

35.    Risk management (continued)     

Financial risk exposures     

  As an insurance group, the Group is exposed to a range of financial risks, including insurance risk, credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. The
Group applies a consistent risk management philosophy that is embedded in management processes and controls such that both existing and emerging risks are considered and addressed.   

The
following section summarises the Group's key risk exposures and the primary policies and processes used by the Group to manage its exposures to these risks.   

Insurance risk     

  The Group considers insurance risk to be a combination of the following component risks:  

Product design risk;   
           Underwriting and expense overrun risk;   
           Lapse risk; and   
           Claims risk    

Product design risk     

  Product design risk refers to potential defects in the development of a particular insurance product. The Group manages product design risk by
completing pre-launch reviews and approval of products by local and the Group functional departments, including product management, actuarial, legal, compliance and underwriting. These
departments have substantial experience and have developed significant expertise in identifying potential flaws in product development that could expose the Group to excessive risk.   

  The
Group monitors closely the performance of new products and focuses on actively managing each part of the actuarial control cycle to minimise risk in the in-force book as well as for
new products. A significant component of the Group's long-term insurance business is participating in nature where the Group has the ability to adjust dividends to reflect market
conditions. This reduces the Group's exposure to changes in circumstances, in particular investment returns, that may arise during the life of long-term insurance policies.   

Underwriting and expense overrun risk     

  Underwriting and expense overrun risk refers to the possibility of product related income being inadequate to support future obligations arising from
an insurance product.   

  The
Group manages underwriting risk by adhering to the Group underwriting guidelines. Each operating unit maintains a team of professional underwriters who review and select risks that are consistent
with the underwriting strategy of the Group. A second layer of underwriting review is conducted at the Group level for complex and large risks. Any exceptions require specific approval and may be
subject to separate risk management actions.   

  In
certain circumstances, such as when entering a new line of business, products or markets for which insufficient experience data is available the Group makes use of reinsurance to obtain product
pricing expertise.   

  In
pricing insurance products the Group manages expense overrun risk by allowing for an appropriate level of expenses that reflects a realistic medium to long-term view of the underlying
cost structure. A disciplined expense budgeting and management process is followed that controls expenses within product pricing allowances over the medium to long-term.   

Lapse risk     

  Lapse risk refers to the possibility of actual lapse experience that diverges from the anticipated experience assumed when products were priced. It
includes the potential financial loss due to early termination of contracts where the acquisition cost incurred may not be recoverable from future revenue.   

  The
Group carries out regular reviews of persistency experience. The results are assimilated into new and in-force business management. Target pay back periods that form part of the
product pricing controls enable monitoring of the   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
87  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

  Group's
exposure to lapse risk. In addition, many of the Group's products include surrender charges that entitle the Group to additional fees on early termination by the policyholder, thereby reducing
exposure to lapse risk.   

Claims risk     

  Claims risk refers to the possibility that the frequency or severity of claims arising from insurance contracts exceeds the level assumed when the
products were priced.   

  For
insurance contracts where death and diagnosis of critical illness are the insured risk, the most significant factors that could increase the overall frequency of claims are epidemics (such as
AIDS, SARS or other communicable
conditions) or widespread changes in lifestyle resulting in earlier or more claims than expected. Other factors affecting the frequency and severity of claims include the
following:  

insurance risk under disability contracts is dependent on economic conditions. Recession and unemployment tend to increase
the number of claims for disability benefits as well as reduce the rate of recovery from disability;   
           insurance risk under hospitalisation contracts is dependent on medical costs and medical technology; and    
           insurance risk under accident contracts is more random and dependent on occupation.    

  The
Group seeks to mitigate claims risk by conducting regular experience studies, including reviews of mortality and morbidity experience, reviewing internal and external data, and considering the
impact of these on product design, pricing and reinsurance needs. As a result of the Group's history and scale, a substantial volume of experience data has been accumulated which assists in evaluation
and pricing of insurance risk.   

  Mortality
and morbidity risk in excess of the respective retention limits are ceded to reduce volatility in claims experience for the Group. The Group's capital position combined with its profitable
product portfolio and diversified geographical presence are factors in management's decision to retain (rather than reinsure) a high proportion of its written insurance risks.   

  Concentration
of insurance risk can be a cause of elevated claims risk and refers to the possibility of significant financial losses arising from a lack of diversification, either geographical or by
product type, of the Group's portfolio. Certain events, such as viral pandemics, may give rise to higher levels of mortality or morbidity experience and exhibit geographical concentrations.   

  The
breadth of the Group's geographical spread and product portfolio creates natural diversification and reduces the extent to which concentrations of insurance risk arise. The Group has a broad
geographical footprint across Asia and its results are not substantially dependent upon any one of these individual markets. This breadth provides a natural diversification of geographic
concentrations of insurance and other risks (such as political risks). However, given the Group's exposure to Asia, it may be relatively more exposed to pandemics localised in Asia than insurance
groups with a worldwide presence.   

  Although
long-term insurance and investment business are the Group's primary operations, the Group has a range of product offerings, such as term life, accident and health, participating,
annuity and unit-linked, which vary in the extent and nature of risk coverage and thereby reduce exposures to concentrations of mortality or morbidity risk.   

  Concentrations
of risk are managed within each market through the monitoring of product sales and size of the in-force book by product group. The Group mitigates this risk by adhering to
the underwriting and claims management policies and procedures that have been developed based on extensive historical experience. Lastly, reinsurance solutions are also used to help reduce
concentration risk.   

Credit risk     

  Credit risk arises from the possibility of financial loss arising from default by borrowers and transactional counterparties and the decrease in the
value of financial instruments due to deterioration in credit quality. The key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk include repayment risk in respect of:  

cash and cash equivalents including bank deposits, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements;    
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
88  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

investments in debt securities, both sovereign and corporate;   
           loans and receivables (including insurance receivables);   
           derivative contracts; and   
           reinsurance receivables.    

  The
geographical concentration of the Group's government bonds is disclosed in Note 19.   

  The
Group has in place a credit analysis process that accounts for diverse factors, including market conditions, industry specific conditions, company cash flows and quality of collateral. The Group
also has a monitoring programme in place whereby the Group's credit analysis teams review the status of the obligor on a regular basis to anticipate any credit issues.   

Cross-border
investment exposures are controlled through the assignment of individual country counterparty risk limits by the Credit Risk Management Committee, a sub-committee of the ALM
Committee.   

  The
Group monitors its credit exposures to any single unrelated external reinsurer or group.   

  The
maximum exposure to credit risk for loans and receivables, debt securities and cash and cash equivalents is the carrying value (net of allowances) in the consolidated statement of financial
position.   

Market risk     

Market risk arises from the possibility of financial loss caused by changes in financial instruments' fair values or future cash flows due to
fluctuations in key variables, including interest rates, equity market prices, foreign exchange rates and real estate property market prices.   

  The
Group manages the risk of market-based fluctuations in the value of the Group's investments, as well as liabilities with exposure to market risk.   

  The
Group uses various quantitative measures to assess market risk, including sensitivity analysis. The level of movements in market factors on which the sensitivity analysis is based were determined
based on economic forecasts and historical experience of variations in these factors.   

  The
Group routinely conducts sensitivity analysis of its fixed income portfolios to estimate its exposure to movements in interest rates. The Group's fixed income sensitivity analysis is primarily a
duration-based approach.   

Interest rate risk     

  The Group's exposure to interest rate risk predominantly arises from the Group's duration gap between the liabilities and assets for interest rate
sensitive products, especially those providing interest rate guarantees. For other products, including those with participation or unit-linked features, interest rate risk is significantly
reduced due to the non-guaranteed nature of additional policyholder benefits. The Group manages its interest rate risk by investing in financial instruments with tenors that match the
duration of its liabilities as much as practicable and appropriate.   

  The
Group also considers the effect of interest rate risk in its overall product strategy. Certain products such as unit-linked, universal life and participating business, inherently have
lower interest rate risk as their design provides flexibility as to crediting rates and policyholder dividend scales. For new products, the Group emphasises flexibility in product design and generally
designs products to avoid excessive long-term interest rate guarantees. For in-force policies, policyholder bonus payout and credit interest rates applicable to policyholder
account balances are regularly adjusted considering, among others, the earned yields and policyholders' communications and reasonable expectations.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
89  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

35.    Risk management (continued)     

Exposure to interest rate risk     

  The table below summarises the nature of the interest rate risk associated with financial assets, financial liabilities and insurance contract
liabilities. In preparing this analysis, fixed rate interest bearing instruments that mature or reprice within 12 months of the reporting date have been disclosed as variable rate instruments.
The contractual and estimated maturity dates of the liabilities are shown below.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
90  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

Foreign exchange rate risk     

  Foreign exchange risk arises from the Group's operations in multiple jurisdictions in the Asia Pacific region. Foreign currency risk associated with
assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies results in gains and losses being recognised in the consolidated income statement. Foreign currency risk associated with the
translation of the net assets of operations with non-US dollar functional currencies results in gains or losses being recorded directly in total equity.   

  On
a local operating unit level, we have invested in assets denominated in currencies that match the related liabilities, to the extent possible and appropriate, to avoid currency mismatches. However,
for yield enhancement and risk diversification purposes, the Group's business units also invest, in some instances, in instruments in currencies that are different from the originating liabilities.
These activities expose the Group to gains and losses arising from foreign exchange rate movements. The Group's business units monitor foreign currency exposures to ensure that these exposures are
undertaken within the Group's acceptable levels of risks. Foreign exchange positions may be closed or hedging instruments such as swaps, futures and forwards may be purchased to mitigate foreign
exchange risks.   

  The
Group's net foreign currency exposures and the estimated impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are set out in the tables below after taking into account the effect of economic hedges of
currency risk. Whilst providing economic hedges that reduce the Group's net exposure to foreign exchange risk, hedge accounting is not applied. Currencies for which net exposure is not significant are
excluded from the analysis below. In compiling the table below the impact of a 5% strengthening of original currency is stated relative to the functional currency of the relevant operation of the
Group. The impact of a 5% strengthening of the US dollar is also stated relative to functional currency. Currency exposure reflects the net notional amount of currency derivative positions as well as
net equity by currency.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
91  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

35.    Risk management (continued)     

Net exposure     

Equity market and interest rate risk     

  Equity market risk arises from changes in the market value of equity securities and equity funds. The investment in equity assets on a
long-term basis is expected to provide diversification benefits and return enhancements which can improve the risk adjusted return of the portfolios.   

Sensitivity analysis     

  Sensitivity analysis to the key variables affecting financial assets and liabilities is set out in the table below. Information relating to
sensitivity of insurance and investment contracts with DPF is provided in Note 26. The carrying values of other financial assets are not subject to changes in response to movements in interest
rates or equity prices. In calculating the sensitivity of debt and equity instruments to changes in interest rates and equity prices the Group has made assumptions about the corresponding impact of
asset valuations on liabilities to policyholders. Assets held to support unit-linked contracts have been excluded on the basis that
changes in fair value are wholly borne by policyholders. Sensitivity analysis for assets held in participating funds has been calculated after allocation of returns to policyholders using the
applicable minimum policyholders' participation ratios described in Note 2. Information is presented to illustrate the estimated impact on profits and equity arising from a change in a single
variable before taking into account the effects of taxation.   

  For
the purpose of illustrating the sensitivity of profit before tax and net assets before the effects of taxation to changes in interest rates and equity prices, the impact of possible impairments of
financial investments classified as available for sale   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
92  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

  which
may arise in times of economic stress has been ignored, since default events reflect the characteristics of individual issuers. Because the Group's accounting policies lock in interest rate
assumptions on policy inception and the Group's assumptions incorporate a provision for adverse deviations, the level of movement illustrated in this sensitivity analysis does not result in loss
recognition and so there is no corresponding effect on liabilities.   

Liquidity risk     

  Liquidity risk primarily refers to the possibility of having insufficient cash available to meet the payment obligations to counterparties when they
become due. This can arise when internal funds are insufficient to meet cash outflow obligations and where the Group is unable to obtain funding at market rates or liquidate assets at fair value
resulting in the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. The Group is exposed to liquidity risk in respect of insurance and investment policies that permit surrender, withdrawal or other
forms of early termination for a cash surrender value specified in the contractual terms and conditions.   

  The
Group's liquidity position is monitored in compliance with regulatory and internal requirements in combination with maturity gap analyses. To manage liquidity risk, the Group has implemented a
variety of measures, including emphasising flexible insurance product design so that it can retain the greatest flexibility to adjust contract pricing or crediting rates. The Group also seeks to
match, to the extent possible and appropriate, the duration of its investment assets with the duration of insurance policies issued.   

The
maturity analysis presented in the tables below presents the estimated maturity of carrying amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position. The estimated maturity for insurance and
investment contracts, is proportionate to their carrying values based on projections of estimated undiscounted cash flows arising from insurance and investment contracts in force at that date. The
Group has made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of insurance benefits and claims and investment contract benefits, which include assumptions in respect of
mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. The maturity
profile of the Group's borrowings is presented on the presumption that the Group will continue to satisfy loan covenants which, if breached, would cause the borrowings to be repayable on demand. The
Group regularly monitors its compliance with these covenants and was in compliance with them at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position and throughout each of the periods
presented. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the maturity profiles presented below could be materially different from actual payments.   

  A
maturity analysis based on the earliest contractual repayment date would present the insurance and investment contract liabilities as falling due in the earliest period in the table because of the
ability of policyholders to exercise surrender   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
93  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

35.    Risk management (continued)    

  options.
Financial assets and liabilities other than investment contract liabilities are presented based on their respective contractual maturities.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
94  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

36.    Employee benefits     

Defined benefit plans     

The Group operates funded and unfunded defined benefit plans that provide life and medical benefits for participating employees after retirement and a lump sum
benefit on cessation of employment. The locations covered by these plans include Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia, the Philippines and Korea. The latest independent
actuarial valuations of the plans were at 30 November 2011 and were prepared by credentialed actuaries of Mercer (Hong Kong) Limited. All the actuaries are qualified members of professional
actuarial organisations to render the actuarial opinions.   

  The
actuarial valuations indicate that the Group's obligations under these defined benefit retirement plans are 36% (2010: 47%) covered by the plan assets held by the trustees.   

  Plan
assets comprise:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
95  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

36.    Employee benefits (continued)    

Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations   

Movement in the fair value of plan assets     

Expense recognised in consolidated income statement     

The expense is recognised within the following line items in the consolidated income statement:   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
96  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

36.    Employee benefits (continued)    

Actuarial assumptions   

  Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date are in the following ranges:   

The overall expected long-term rate of return is based on the portfolios as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset categories.
The return is based on historical returns without adjustment.   

Assumptions
regarding future mortality rates are based on published statistics and mortality tables. Average retirement ages and life expectancies are set out below for the principal locations with
defined benefit employee benefit.   

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates affect the amounts recognised in profit or loss. A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following
effects (expressed as weighted averages):   

Historical information     

Contributions to funded and unfunded defined benefit plans during the year ended 30 November 2011 are not expected to be material.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
97  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

36.    Employee benefits (continued)     

Defined contribution plans   

  The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was US$41m (2010:
US$34m). Employees and the employer are required to make monthly contributions equal to 5% to 22% of the employees' monthly basic salaries, depending on years of service and subject to any applicable
caps of monthly relevant income in different jurisdictions. For defined contribution pension plans with vesting conditions, any forfeited contributions by employers on behalf of employees who leave
the scheme prior to vesting fully in such contributions are used by the employer to reduce any future contributions. The amount of forfeited contributions used to reduce the existing level of
contributions is not material.   

  The
outstanding liability for defined contribution benefit plans is US$2m (2010: US$1m).      

37.    Share-based compensation     

Stock compensation plans     

  During 2011, the Group made its first grants of share options and restricted share units ('RSUs') to certain employees, directors and officers of the
Group under the SO Scheme and the RSU Scheme adopted on 28 September 2010. In addition, the Group has adopted an under which the eligible employees will be awarded one matching restricted stock
purchase unit for each two shares purchased through the qualified employee contributions at the end of the vesting period subject to conditions being met.   

  In
connection with AIG's divestiture of more than 50% of the Group on 29 October 2010, all equity-settled share-based compensation arrangements of AIG in which the Group's employees
participated were either settled or terminated; any unvested incentive awards associated with the terminated plans were treated as unvested.   

RSU Scheme   

  Under the RSU Scheme, the vesting of the granted RSUs is conditional upon the eligible participants remaining in employment with the Group during the respective vesting
periods. RSU grants are vested either entirely after a specific period of time or in tranches over the vesting period. For RSU grants that are vested in tranches, each vesting tranche is accounted for
as a separate grant for the purposes of recognising the expense over the vesting period. For certain RSUs, performance conditions are also attached which include both market and non-market
conditions. RSUs subject to performance conditions are released to the participants at the end of the vesting period depending on the actual achievement of the performance conditions. During the
vesting period, the participants are not entitled to dividends of the underlying shares. Except in
jurisdictions where restrictions apply, the granted RSUs are expected to be settled in equity; grants that the Group has the legal or constructive obligation to settle in cash are insignificant to the
Group. The maximum number of shares that can be granted under this scheme is 301,100,000, representing 2.5 percent of the number of shares in issue at 30 November 2011.   

SO Scheme   

  The objectives of the SO Scheme are to align eligible participants' interests with those of the shareholders of the Company by allowing eligible participants to share in the
value created at the point they exercise their options. Share   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
98  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

37.    Share-based compensation (continued)    

  option
('SO') grants are vested either entirely after a specific period of time or in tranches over the vesting period, during which, the eligible participants are required to remain in employment
with the Group. For SO grants made in
2011 that are vested in tranches, one-third of the share options become exercisable on 1 April 2014, 1 April 2015, and 1 April 2016 respectively; each vesting tranche
is accounted for as a separate grant for the purposes of recognising the expense over the vesting period. The granted share options ten years from the date of grant and each share option entitles the
eligible participant to subscribe for one ordinary share. Except in jurisdictions where restrictions apply, the granted share options are expected to be settled in equity; grants that the Group has
the legal or constructive obligation to settle in cash are insignificant to the Group. The total number of shares under options that can be granted under the scheme is 301,100,000, representing
2.5 percent of the number of shares in issue at 30 November 2011. The measurement date for grants made in 2011 was determined to be 15 June 2011in accordance with IFRS 2.   

Information
about options outstanding and options exercisable by the Group's employees and directors as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:   

ESPP   

  Under the plan, eligible employees of the Group can purchase ordinary shares of the Company with qualified employee contributions and the Company will award one matching
restricted share purchase unit to them at the end of the vesting period for each two shares purchased through the qualified employee contributions ('contribution shares'). Contribution shares are
purchased from the open market. During the vesting period, the eligible employees must hold the contribution shares purchased during the plan cycle and remain employed by the Group. The level of
qualified employee contribution is limited to not more than 5% of the annual basic salary subject to a maximum. During 2011, eligible employees paid less than US$1 million to purchase 232,328
ordinary shares of the Company.   

Valuation methodology   

  The Group utilises a binomial lattice model to calculate the fair value of the share options grants, a Monte-Carlo simulation model and/or discounted cash flow technique to
calculate the fair value of the RSU and ESPP awards, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The price volatility is estimated on the basis of implied
volatility of the Company's shares which is based on an analysis of historical data since they are traded in the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and takes into consideration the historical volatility of
peer companies (the constituent companies in Dow Jones Insurance Titans Indexin view of the short trading history of the Company's shares on the measurement date. The expected life of the options is
derived from the output of the valuation model and is calculated based on an analysis of expected exercise behaviour of the Company's employees. The estimate of market condition for   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
99  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

37.    Share-based compensation (continued)    

  performance-based
RSUs is based on one-year historical data preceding the grant date. No allowance for forfeiture prior to vesting is included in the valuation of the awards.   

  The
fair value calculated for share options are inherently subjective due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model utilised.   

*  Applicable to RSU with market conditions   

  The weighted average share price for share option valuation is HK$27.25. The total fair value of share options granted in 2011 is US$20m.   

Recognised compensation cost   

  The total recognised compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to share-based compensation awards granted under the RSU Scheme, SO Scheme and ESPP in 2011 is
US$16m.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
100  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel     

Directors' remuneration     

  The Executive Director receives compensation in the form of salaries, bonuses, contributions to pension schemes, long-term incentives,
housing and other allowances, and benefits in kind subject to applicable laws, rules and regulations. Bonuses and long-term incentives represent the variable components in the Executive
Directors' compensation and are linked to the performance of the Group and the Executive Director. Details of share-based payment schemes are described in Note 37.   

Note:       (1)      The bonus paid to the current Executive Director in respect of 2010, excluding the amount described in the following sentence exceeded the
amount disclosed previously by US$277,034. The current Executive Director was issued share-based compensation in lieu of US$1,706,730 of bonuses for 2010 as previously disclosed. This share-based
compensation was granted in 2011 and is subject to vesting conditions. Therefore the remuneration will be recognised and disclosed over the vesting period commencing from 2011.    

(2)Mr. Mark Andrew Wilson and Mr. Stephen Bernard Roder resigned as directors of the Company on 1 September 2010 and 22 April 2010
respectively.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
101  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel (continued)    

  The remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Independent Non-executive Directors of the Company at 30 November 2011 and 2010
are included in the tables below.   

Note:       (1)      Included in directors' fees is US$18,159 which represents remuneration to Mr. Edmund Sze Wing Tse in respect of his services as director
of a subsidiary of the Company.      

Note:       (1)      Included in directors' fees is US$8,869 which represents remuneration to Mr. Edmund Sze Wing Tse in respect of his services as director
of a subsidiary of the Company.     

(2)Included in directors' fees is US$29,097 which represents remuneration to Mr. Jack Chak-Kwong So in respect of his services as director of a subsidiary of the Company.     

(3)Mr. Robert Herman Benmosche, Mr. David Lawrence Herzog, Mr. Jay Steven Wintrob and Mr. Jeffrey Joy Hurd, who are employees of AIG, were appointed as directors of
the Company on 19 July 2010, 7 April 2010, 28 September 2010 and 28 September 2010, respectively. The services they provided to the Group were considered to occupy an
insignificant amount of their time and they were not separately remunerated for such services. As such, no remuneration is presented. Mr. Robert Herman Benmosche and Mr. David Lawrence
Herzog resigned as directors of the Company on 27 September 2010.     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
102  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel (continued)    

Remuneration of five highest paid individuals   

  The aggregate remuneration of the five highest paid individuals employed by the Group in each of the years ended 30 November 2011 and 2010 is
presented in the table below.   

The emoluments of the five individuals with the highest emoluments are within the following bands:   

Key management personnel remuneration   

  Key management personnel have been identified as the members of the Group's Executive Committee and Executive Director of the Company's Board.   

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
103  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

38.    Remuneration of directors and key management personnel (continued)     

  The
emoluments of the Key Management Personnel are within the following bands:   

39.    Related party transactions     

Transactions with related parties     

AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
104  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

39.    Related party transactions (continued)    

Insurance related and other amounts due from/to related parties are unsecured, non-interest bearing balances which are expected to be settled within
one year.   

Remuneration
of directors and key management personnel is disclosed in Note 38.      

40.    Commitments and contingencies     

Commitments under operating leases     

  Total future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:   

The Group is the lessee in respect of a number of properties and items of office equipment held under operating leases. The leases typically run for an initial
period of one to seven years, with an option to renew the lease when all terms are renegotiated. Lease payments are usually increased at the end of the lease term to reflect market rates. None of the
leases include contingent rentals.   

Investment and capital commitments     

Investment and capital commitments consist of commitments to invest in private equity partnerships and other assets.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
105  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

40.    Commitments and contingencies (continued)    

Contingencies     

  The Group is subject to regulation in each of the geographical markets in which it operates from insurance, securities, capital markets, pension, data
privacy and other regulators and is exposed to the risk of regulatory actions in response to perceived or actual non-compliance with regulations relating to suitability, sales or
underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties. The Group believes that these
matters have been adequately provided for in these financial statements.   

  The
Group is exposed to legal proceedings, complaints and other actions from its activities including those arising from commercial activities, sales practices, suitability of products, policies and
claims. The Group believes these matters are adequately provided for in these financial statements.   

  The
Group is the reinsurer in a residential mortgage credit reinsurance agreement covering residential mortgages in Australia. Due to a change in law, further cessions under this contract ended in
July 2008. This reinsurance is fully retroceded to a subsidiary of AIG. The Group is exposed to the risk of losses in the event of the failure of the counterparty retrocessionaire to honour its
obligations. The principal balance outstanding of mortgage loans to which the reinsurance agreement relates were approximately US$2,525m at 30 November 2011 (2010: US$2,923m). The liabilities
and related reinsurance assets, which totalled US$11m (2010: US$12m), respectively, arising from these agreements are reflected and presented on a gross basis in these financial statements in
accordance with the Group's accounting policies. The Group expects to fully recover amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date under the terms of this agreement from the retrocessionaire. In the
event of a change in control of one party, the other party has the right to terminate the retrocession cover with the Group electing whether the termination is on a run-off basis or clean
cut basis.   

  At
30 November 2011, the Group has issued capital guarantees and guarantees of indebtedness and minimum guaranteed rates of return ranging from 0% to 5% to holders of units of pension funds
that have an accumulation value of approximately US$1,336m (2010: US$1,309m). The Group has the ability to reduce the guaranteed rates of return, subject to obtaining approvals of applicable
regulators.   

  The
status of the licences of the AIA Group is reviewed from time to time by the Group's regulators in light of a number of factors including the legal structure of the Group.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
106  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011      

41.    Subsidiaries     

The principal subsidiary companies which materially contribute to the net income of the Group or hold a material element of its assets and liabilities are:   

Notes:  

(1)  

The Company's subsidiary   

(2)  

The Company is newly set up in 2011   

(3)  

All of the above subsidiaries are audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers   

All subsidiaries are unlisted.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
107  

AIA Group Limited 
Financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2011   

42.    Events after the reporting period     

The corporate tax rates for Thailand and Korea have changed after 30 November 2011. For Thailand, the corporate income tax rate will reduce to 23% for assessment year 2012 and 20% for
assessment year 2013 and 2014 and return to 30% for assessment year 2015 and onwards. For Korea, the corporate income tax rate was previously reduced to 22% for the assessment years beginning April
2012. After the tax law change, the corporate income tax rate on the portion of assessable profits exceeding 20 billion Korean won will increase from 22% to 24.2% for the assessment years
beginning April 2012.   

  On
1 January 2012, AIA Co. completed the transfer of its insurance business in Singapore from a branch to its wholly-owned subsidiary, AIA Singapore Private Limited ("AIA Singapore").
This transfer did not have any financial impact on the consolidated financial statements of the AIA Group.   

  On
24 February 2012, the Directors of the Company proposed a final dividend of 22 Hong Kong cents per share.   
   
AIG 2012 Form 10-K  
  
108  

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 aig-20131231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 aig-20131231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 aig-20131231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 aig-20131231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 aig-20131231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 aig-20131231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

