<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080227_10-K_edgar_data_882095_0001193125-08-040255_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2905814</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1105486</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>94352</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1429345</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>99</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-040255.hdr.sgml : 20080227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080227172215
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-040255
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GILEAD SCIENCES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000882095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				943047598
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19731
		FILM NUMBER:		08647569

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505743000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SjxjTLs9q5FQpHMg12xZaRMQcJu0rCmtqy2R1Gzp1lABOe8/6cCo8gsKJNPGQ2M2
 a7s+rFfQgvbCumFS5a1J3w==

 0001193125-08-040255.txt : 20080227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              
   FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)        
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007        or        
     For the transition period from             to
                    Commission File No. 0-19731                  GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   94-3047598    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    

333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California   
     
   94404    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 650-574-3000                  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share  
     
  The Nasdaq Global Select Market   
     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
     Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-Accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant based upon the closing price of its Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 29, 2007
was $28,881,737,506.*      The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock on February 22, 2008 was 928,870,032.
      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Specified portions of the registrant s proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant s 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
held on May 8, 2008, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.   

*  
  Based on a closing price of $38.80 per share on June 29, 2007. Excludes 181,194,654 shares of the registrant s Common Stock held by executive officers, directors and any
stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of registrant s common stock outstanding at June 29, 2007. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to indicate that any such person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or
cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant.                 

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        2007 Form 10-K Annual Report        
  Table of Contents        

PART I    

Item 1  

Business    
      
  2   
 
  Item 1A  

Risk Factors    
      
  25   
 
  Item 1B  

Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  38   
 
  Item 2  

Properties    
      
  38   
 
  Item 3  

Legal Proceedings    
      
  39   
 
  Item 4  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  39   

PART II    

Item 5  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  40   
 
  Item 6  

Selected Financial Data    
      
  43   
 
  Item 7  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  45   
 
  Item 7A  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    
      
  66   
 
  Item 8  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  69   
 
  Item 9  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  69   
 
  Item 9A  

Controls and Procedures    
      
  69   
 
  Item 9B  

Other Information    
      
  71   

PART III    

Item 10  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  71   
 
  Item 11  

Executive Compensation    
      
  71   
 
  Item 12  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  71   
 
  Item 13  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  71   
 
  Item 14  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  71   

PART IV    

Item 15  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  72   

SIGNATURES     
      
  129   
    We own or have rights to various
trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD SCIENCES     , TRUVADA     , VIREAD     , EMTRIVA     , HEPSERA     , AMBISOME     , VISTIDE      and LETAIRIS . ATRIPLA      is a registered trademark belonging to Bristol-Myers
Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. MACUGEN      is a registered trademark belonging to OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. SUSTIVA      is a
registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. TAMIFLU      is a registered trademark belonging to F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. FLOLAN    
  and VOLIBRIS      are registered trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline Inc. This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies.   

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as  expect,   anticipate,   target,   goal,   project,   hope,   intend, 
 plan,   believe,   seek,   estimate,   continue,   may,   could,   should,   might,  variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends, operating cost trends, liquidity and capital needs and other
statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those
identified below under  Risk Factors,  beginning at page 25. The risks, uncertainties and assumptions referred to above may include, but are not limited to, the following:        

our ability to maintain or continue increasing sales of our HIV products;           

our ability to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products;           

the significant competition we face;           

significant safety issues may arise for our marketed products or our product candidates;           

our ability to comply with complex U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and comparable international regulations;           

the results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline;

our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials and our inability to directly control the timing, conduct,
expense and quality of our clinical trials;           

our ability to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products;

our dependence on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues;           

our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally and our ability to operate without
infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties; and           

the risk factors listed from time to time in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).           Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements
included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not undertake and specifically decline any obligation to update any of these statements or
to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.          
   1   

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and
commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America,
Europe and Australia. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life-threatening diseases to market. We continue to seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and
clinical development programs and through an active product acquisition and in-licensing strategy.       Our Products        

Truvada   (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) is an oral formulation dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. It is a fixed-dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine). We promote Truvada in the United States through our U.S. commercial
team and sell it in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. We promote and sell Truvada in Europe through our commercial team and distributors, in Australia and New Zealand through our commercial team and in certain Latin
American, Middle Eastern and Asian countries through distributors. We promote and sell Truvada in Japan through our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco). In addition, Truvada is made available by us at substantially reduced prices
to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program.          

Atripla   (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of
HIV infection in adults. Atripla is the first once-daily single tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. It is a fixed-dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread and Emtriva,
and Bristol Myers-Squibb Company s Sustiva (efavirenz). We promote Atripla with our joint venture partner, Bristol Myers-Squibb Company (BMS), in the United States through each company s commercial teams and sell it through our joint
venture, Bristol Myers-Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC, in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Atripla was approved for sale in the European Union in December 2007 and is currently sold in the United Kingdom, Germany
and Austria. We plan to promote Atripla jointly with BMS in the majority of countries in Europe and are responsible for selling and distributing the product in these countries. In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either
we, BMS or a third-party distributor will be the sole promoting, selling and distributing company. In addition, we make Atripla available at substantially reduced prices to certain developing world countries through our collaboration with Merck
  Co., Inc. (Merck).          

Viread   is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat HIV
infection in adults. We promote Viread in the United States through our U.S. commercial team and sell it in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. We promote and sell Viread in Europe through our commercial team and
distributors, in Australia and New Zealand through our commercial team and in certain Latin American, Middle Eastern and Asian countries through distributors. We promote and sell Viread in Japan through our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco. In
addition, Viread is made available by us at substantially reduced prices to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program.          

Emtriva   is an oral formulation of a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat HIV
infection in adults. In the United States and Europe, Emtriva is also approved as part of combination therapy to treat HIV infection in children. We promote  
          
   2   

Table of Contents  

Emtriva in the United States through our U.S. commercial team and sell it in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. We promote and sell
Emtriva in Europe through our commercial team and distributors, in Australia and New Zealand through our commercial team and in certain Latin American and Middle Eastern countries through distributors. We promote and sell Emtriva in Japan through
our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco.          

Hepsera   (adefovir dipivoxil) is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA polymerase inhibitor, dosed once a day to
treat chronic hepatitis B. Hepsera is approved for sale in the United States for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with evidence of active viral replication and either evidence of persistent elevations in serum aminotransferases (ALT or
AST) or histologically active liver disease. Our U.S. commercial team promotes Hepsera in the United States, and we sell it in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. We promote and sell Hepsera in Europe through our commercial
team and distributors and in Australia and New Zealand through our commercial team. We have licensed the rights to commercialize Hepsera solely for the treatment of hepatitis B in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories to
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK).          

AmBisome   (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent to treat serious
invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species. Our corporate partner, Astellas Pharma, Inc. (Astellas), promotes and sells AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we promote and sell AmBisome in Europe, Australia and New
Zealand through our commercial team and distributors. We also use various distributors to promote and sell AmBisome in certain Latin American, Middle Eastern and Asian countries (including India but excluding Japan, where Dainippon Sumitomo
Pharma Co., Ltd. is responsible for promotion and distribution).          

Letairis   (ambrisentan) is an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group 1)
in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening. Letairis, approved in the United States in June 2007, is available only through a special restricted distribution program called the Letairis
Education and Access Program (LEAP). Only prescribers and pharmacies registered with LEAP may prescribe, sell and distribute Letairis. Letairis has been granted orphan drug status for the treatment of PAH in both the United States as well as the
European Union, where it recently received a positive opinion from the European Committee for Human Medicinal Products for the treatment of PAH and will be marketed under the name Volibris by GSK upon approval. We have an exclusive license to patent
rights and related technology for Letairis in the United States from Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (Abbott). We sublicensed to GSK the rights to Letairis for certain hypertensive conditions in territories outside of the United States.

Vistide   (cidofovir injection) is an antiviral medication for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with AIDS. Vistide is approved for
sale in the United States, where we sell the product exclusively through the wholesale channel. In 25 countries outside the United States, Vistide is sold by Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer).          

Flolan   (epoprostenol sodium) is an injected medication for the long-term intravenous treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary
hypertension associated with the scleroderma spectrum of disease in New York Heart Association Class III and Class IV patients who do not respond adequately to conventional therapy. We have a license agreement and a distribution and supply agreement
with GSK under which we have exclusive rights to market, promote and distribute Flolan and the sterile diluent for Flolan in the United States until April 2009. Flolan is distributed in the United States through a specialty pharmacy.
           
   3   

Table of Contents  

   The following table lists aggregate product sales for our major products (in thousands):       
    See Item 8, Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 123 through 124
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for our total revenues by geographic area.       Royalties from Other Products        

Tamiflu   (oseltamivir phosphate) is an oral antiviral available in capsule form for the treatment and prevention of influenza A and B. Tamiflu is in a
class of prescription drugs called neuraminidase inhibitors. Tamiflu is approved for the treatment of influenza in children and adults in more than 60 countries, including the United States, Japan and the European Union and is approved for the
prevention of influenza in children and adults in the United States, Japan and the European Union. We developed Tamiflu with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche), and Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture, by
itself or through third parties, and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us royalties based on a percentage of the net sales that Roche generates from the sale of Tamiflu worldwide.          

Macugen   (pegaptanib sodium injection) is an intravitreal injection of an anti-angiogenic oligonucleotide for the treatment of neovascular age-related
macular degeneration. Macugen was approved by the FDA in the United States in December 2004, and sales commenced in January 2005. In February 2006, the product received marketing approval for sale in the European Union. Macugen was developed by OSI
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OSI) using technology licensed from us and is now promoted in the United States by OSI. OSI holds the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Macugen in the United States, and Pfizer holds the exclusive right to manufacture
and sell Macugen in the rest of the world. We receive royalties from OSI based on sales of Macugen worldwide.          Commercialization and
Distribution       We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Canada,
France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. We are in the process of establishing marketing subsidiaries in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway
and Sweden and intend to terminate our distributor agreements covering these territories.      Our commercial teams promote Truvada, Viread,
Emtriva, Hepsera, AmBisome, Letairis and Flolan through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   We sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and Vistide in the United States exclusively
through our wholesale channel. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome in the United States. Letairis and Flolan are sold and distributed exclusively by specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the
dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling, and Letairis is only available through LEAP, a special restricted distribution program.      We sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome in Europe, either through our commercial team or third-party distributors, and in
Australia and New Zealand through our commercial team.      We sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome in countries
outside of the United States and Europe, including countries in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand and Africa. In these territories, with the exception of Australia and New Zealand, we enter into agreements with third-party
distributors granting them the exclusive right to sell our products in a particular territory for a specified period of time. Most of these agreements provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and us for obtaining regulatory approval
for the product in the specified territory. These agreements generally grant the distributor the right to promote the product in the territory.      We promote Atripla in the United States with our joint venture partner, BMS, through our respective commercial teams using direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers who are involved in the
treatment of patients with HIV. Atripla was approved for sale in the European Union in December 2007 and is currently sold in the United Kingdom, Germany and Austria. We plan to promote Atripla jointly with BMS in the majority of countries in Europe
and are responsible for selling and distributing the product in these countries. In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either we, BMS or a third-party distributor will be the sole promoting, selling and distributing company.
In a smaller group of non-European Union Eastern and Central European countries, Atripla will be promoted by BMS either directly or through third-party distributors.      We had product sales to three large wholesalers, each accounting for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted
for approximately 89% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 45% of our total revenues. The following table summarizes the percent of our total revenues that were attributed to product sales made to these three wholesalers:
      
     Competition       Our products and development programs target a number of areas, including viral, fungal, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. There are many commercially available products for the treatment of these diseases and
a large number of companies and institutions are spending considerable amounts of money and other resources to develop additional products to treat these diseases. Our products compete with other available products based primarily on:       

efficacy;          

safety;          

tolerability;            
   5   

Table of Contents  

acceptance by doctors;          

ease of patient compliance;          

patent protection;          

ease of use;          

price;          

insurance and other reimbursement coverage;          

distribution; and          

marketing.           Our HIV
Products   .  The HIV landscape is becoming more competitive and complex as treatment trends continue to evolve. A growing number of anti-HIV drugs are currently sold or are in advanced stages of clinical development. Of the approximately
26 branded HIV drugs available in the United States, our products primarily compete with the fixed-dose combination products in the nucleotide/nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) class, including Combivir (lamivudine and zidovudine);
Epzicom/Kivexa (abacavir and lamivudine) and Trizivir (abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine), each sold by GSK. Other companies with HIV products competing in the same NRTI class include BMS and Roche, although our HIV products also compete broadly with
HIV products from Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck, Abbott and Tibotec Therapeutics, a division of Ortho Biotech Products, L.P.      BMS s Videx EC (didanosine, ddI) became the first generic HIV product in the United States in 2004. GSK s Retrovir (zidovudine) also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic zidovudine in
2005. To date, there has been little impact from generic didanosine or generic zidovudine on the price of our HIV products; however, price decreases for all HIV products may result in the longer term.        AmBisome.   AmBisome faces strong competition from several current and expected competitors. Competition from these current and expected
competitors may erode the revenues we receive from sales of AmBisome. AmBisome faces competition from Vfend (voriconazole) developed by Pfizer and caspofungin, a product developed by Merck that is marketed as Cancidas in the United States and as
Caspofungin elsewhere. AmBisome also competes with other lipid-based amphotericin B products, including Abelcet (amphotericin B lipid complex injection), sold by Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the United States, Canada and Japan and by Zeneus Pharma
Ltd. in Europe; Amphotec (amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate complex for injection), sold by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC worldwide; and Anfogen (amphotericin B liposomal), sold by Genpharma, S.A. in Argentina. BMS and numerous
generic manufacturers sell conventional amphotericin B, which also competes with AmBisome.      We are aware of at least three lipid
formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. Furthermore, the manufacture of
lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association.        Hepsera.   Hepsera faces significant competition from existing and expected therapies for treating patients with chronic hepatitis B. Hepsera has faced increased competition from Baraclude (entecavir), an
oral nucleoside analogue developed by BMS and launched in the United States in 2005, and Tyzeka/Sebivo (telbivudine), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) for sale in the United States, the
European Union and China. It also competes with Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (lamivudine), developed by GSK in collaboration with Shire Pharmaceuticals Group PLC and sold in the major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia.   
     
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Hepsera also competes with established immunomodulatory therapies, including Intron-A (interferon
alfa-2b), which is sold by Schering Plough Corporation in major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia, and Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a), an injectable drug similar to Intron-A sold by Roche for the treatment of
chronic hepatitis B.        Letairis.   Letairis competes directly with Tracleer (bosentan) sold by Actelion Ltd. and indirectly with
PAH products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer.        Vistide.   Vistide competes with a number of drugs that also
treat cytomegalovirus retinitis, including Cytovene IV and Cytovene (ganciclovir), sold in intravenous and oral formulations by Roche and as an ocular implant by Bausch   Lomb Incorporated; Valcyte (valganciclovir), also marketed by
Roche; Foscavir (foscarnet), an intravenous drug sold by AstraZeneca PLC; and Vitravene (fomivirsen), a drug injected directly into the eye, sold by CibaVision.        Flolan   .  Flolan competes primarily with Remodulin (treprostinil), a form of prostacyclin that is administered via continuous subcutaneous infusion or continuous intravenous infusion, which is sold
by United Therapeutics Corporation in the United States. Flolan also competes with Ventavis (iloprost), an inhaled form of prostacyclin sold by affiliates of Actelion Ltd. in the United States. In addition, because the patent covering Flolan has
expired, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of Flolan in the United States.        Tamiflu.  
Tamiflu competes with Relenza (zanamivir), an anti-influenza drug that is sold by GSK. Relenza is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is delivered as an orally-inhaled dry powder. Generic competitors include amantadine and rimantadine, both oral tablets
that only inhibit the replication of the influenza A virus. BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing injectable formulations of peramivir, an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza, which is currently in Phase 2
clinical trials.        Macugen.   Macugen competes primarily with Visudyne (verteporfin for injection), which is sold by Novartis
and used in connection with photodynamic therapy, and Lucentis (ranibizumab), which is sold by Genentech, Inc.      A number of companies are
pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other
pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and
programs.      We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as our existing and future competitors introduce new
products to the market and new technologies become available. We cannot determine if existing products or new products that our competitors develop will be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than any that we develop. Competitive
products could render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive before we recover the investments and resources we used to develop these products.       Collaborative Relationships       As part of our business strategy, we establish collaborations with other companies,
universities and medical research institutions to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for
acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies, universities and medical research institutions. More information regarding certain of these relationships, including their
financial and accounting impact on our business can be found in Item 8, Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 105 through 111 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

     Commercial Collaborations        The following list is representative of our commercial collaborations:       

Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas).  In 1991, we entered into an agreement with Astellas, as successor to Fujisawa USA, Inc., related to rights to market
AmBisome. Under the agreement, Astellas is responsible for promoting AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we have exclusive marketing rights to AmBisome in the rest of the world, subject to our obligation to pay royalties to Astellas in
connection with sales in significant markets in Asia, including China, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Astellas collects all payments from the sale of AmBisome in the United States and Canada, subject to the obligation to pay us royalties on
Astellas s gross profits from the sale of AmBisome in the United States and Canada.          

Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and Rega Stichting (IOCB/REGA).  In 1991 and 1992, we entered
into agreements with IOCB/REGA relating to certain nucleotide compounds discovered at these two institutions. Under the agreements, we received the exclusive right to manufacture, use and sell these nucleotide compounds and are obligated to pay
IOCB/REGA a percentage of net sales received from sales of products containing the patented compounds, subject to minimum royalty payments. The compounds covered by the original agreements include cidofovir (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in
Vistide), adefovir (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Hepsera) and tenofovir (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla). In December 2000, the agreements with
IOCB/REGA were amended to provide for a reduced royalty rate on future sales of product incorporating adefovir and tenofovir, in return for an up-front payment from us upon signing the amendment. In August 2004, IOCB/REGA agreed to waive their right
to a royalty on sales of Truvada and Viread in the developing countries where we sell such products at substantially reduced prices under our Gilead Access Program and on sales of Atripla distributed by Merck in developing countries. In
August 2006, we executed an amendment of the agreements with IOCB/REGA that sets forth our royalty obligations for sales of products containing tenofovir in certain upper and lower middle-income countries and for sales of products
containing tenofovir manufactured by Indian generic companies in certain specified developing countries, including India.          

Emory University (Emory).  In April 1996, we obtained an exclusive worldwide license to all of Emory s rights to purified forms of emtricitabine, the
active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and  
          
   8   

Table of Contents  

a component of Truvada and Atripla, for use in the treatment of HIV and HBV. Prior to July 2005, we paid royalties to Emory on worldwide net sales of product
containing emtricitabine. In July 2005, we and Royalty Pharma purchased 65% and 35%, respectively, of the royalty interest owned by Emory in exchange for the elimination of the emtricitabine royalties payable to Emory. Since July 2005, we have paid
royalties on worldwide net sales of products containing emtricitabine directly to Royalty Pharma at a rate proportional to its share of the purchase price. Also in July 2005, we made a payment to Emory in connection with the amendment and
restatement of our existing license agreement with Emory, as it pertained to our obligation to develop emtricitabine for the hepatitis B indication.          

F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche).  In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement with Roche to
develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the original agreement, Roche had the exclusive
right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of the net sales that Roche generated from Tamiflu sales. In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the original agreement
with Roche. The amendment eliminated cost of goods adjustments from the royalty calculation, retroactive to calendar year 2004 and for all future calculations. The amendment also provided for the formation of a joint manufacturing committee to
review Roche s existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United States and a joint supervisory committee to
evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis. Each of the committees consists of representatives from both Roche and us. Under the amendment, we have the option to provide a specialized sales force to supplement
Roche s U.S. marketing efforts for Tamiflu, which we have not exercised to date.          

Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer).  In August 1996, we granted Pfizer the exclusive right to market and sell Vistide in all countries outside of the United States, subject
to payment to us of a percentage of net product sales of Vistide by Pfizer. Under the agreement, we are required to sell to Pfizer bulk cidofovir and to maintain the Vistide patents. In connection with the agreement, we received an up-front license
fee and a milestone payment upon obtaining marketing approval in Europe, and are entitled to receive certain royalties on net sales of Vistide.         In December 2002, OSI granted Pfizer a sublicense relating to Macugen, and in connection with this sublicense, we entered into a license with Pfizer on the same terms as contained in our agreement with OSI.

Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. (Sumitomo).  In September 1996, we entered into an agreement with Sumitomo, as successor to Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals
Co., Ltd., pursuant to which Sumitomo agreed to develop and market AmBisome in Japan. This agreement was amended and restated in August 2007. Under the terms of the restated agreement, we received an up-front license fee and certain milestone
payments and are entitled to receive royalties on all AmBisome sales in Japan. Under the agreement, we are required to supply Sumitomo with unlabeled vials of AmBisome for Sumitomo to package, label, market and distribute in Japan.

OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OSI).  In March 2000, we granted OSI worldwide rights to all therapeutic uses of Macugen. OSI has sublicensed the rights to
Macugen in territories outside of the United States to Pfizer, and we entered into a license agreement with Pfizer on the same terms as contained in our agreement with OSI. We are entitled to receive payments from OSI if OSI reaches certain
milestones, as well as royalties on worldwide net sales of Macugen, subject to our obligations to make payments to third parties relating to these royalties. In December 2003, we entered into an agreement with OSI to fill and finish Macugen for OSI.

Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (Abbott).  In October 2001, Abbott granted us an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize ambrisentan, the active
pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis, for all therapeutic uses. Under the agreement, we will be required to make certain milestone payments as well as pay royalties based on net sales of Letairis. In June 2007, the FDA approved Letairis for the

9   

Table of Contents  

treatment of PAH in the United States. In March 2006, as discussed below, we sublicensed to GlaxoSmithKline Inc. the rights to ambrisentan for certain
hypertensive conditions in territories outside of the United States.          

GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK).  In April 2002, we granted GSK the right to commercialize Hepsera solely for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Asia, Latin
America and certain other territories, the most significant of which include China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Under the agreement, we retained rights to Hepsera in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Turkey. We
received an up-front license fee and all milestone payments payable under our licensing agreement. GSK has full responsibility for development and commercialization of Hepsera for the treatment of hepatitis B in its territories. In addition, GSK is
required to pay us royalties on net sales of Hepsera and GSK s hepatitis product, Epivir-HBV/Zeffix, in the GSK territories. Hepsera launched in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan in 2004 and in China in 2005.         In March 2006, we exclusively sublicensed to GSK rights to ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis) for certain hypertensive
conditions in territories outside of the United States. Under the license agreement, we received an up-front payment and, subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we will be eligible to receive additional milestone payments. In addition,
we will receive royalties based on net sales of Letairis in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for Letairis in the GSK territories during the term of the license
agreement. Under the agreement, we will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Letairis in the United States, Canada and the
European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional development activities in its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop Letairis for new indications in the licensed field, and each party will pay its
share of external costs associated with such joint development. In March 2007, we received a milestone payment from GSK for the validation by the European Medicines Agency of the marketing authorization application for Letairis for the treatment of
PAH.      In March 2006, we entered into a license agreement and a distribution and supply agreement with GSK under which we have exclusive
rights to promote, sell and distribute Flolan and the sterile diluent for Flolan in the United States until April 2009. In addition, GSK assigned to us its rights and responsibilities with respect to Flolan under certain agreements with specialty
pharmacy distributors. To the extent our gross sales of Flolan in the United States exceed certain predefined targets, the supply price to be paid by us to GSK for Flolan will decrease on a sliding scale. We commenced distribution activities of
Flolan in the United States under the distribution and supply agreement in April 2006.       

Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco).  In July 2003, we entered into a licensing agreement with Japan Tobacco under which Japan Tobacco would commercialize
certain of our HIV products, specifically Viread, Truvada and Emtriva, in Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front license fee and additional cash payments upon achievement of certain milestones. Japan Tobacco is also
required to pay us a royalty on net sales of these products in Japan. In March 2004, Viread was approved for sale in Japan, and in March 2005, both Emtriva and Truvada were approved for sale in Japan.          

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS).  In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS to develop and commercialize the single tablet regimen of our
Truvada and BMS s Sustiva in the United States. This combination was approved for use in the United States in July 2006 and is sold under the name Atripla. We and BMS structured this collaboration as a joint venture by forming a limited
liability company called Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. Under the terms of the collaboration, we and BMS granted royalty-free sublicenses to the joint venture for the use of our respective company-owned technologies and, in
return, were granted a license by the joint venture to use any intellectual property that results from the collaboration. The economic interests of the joint venture held by us and BMS (including share of revenues and out-of-pocket expenses) are
based on the portion of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil  
          
   10   

Table of Contents  

fumarate) and Sustiva (efavirenz), respectively. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of Sustiva,
both our and BMS s respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually. We and BMS share marketing and sales efforts, with both parties providing equivalent sales force efforts for a minimum number of years. The daily
operations of the joint venture are governed by four primary joint committees formed by both BMS and us. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax reporting and product distribution for the joint venture. In September 2006, we and
BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into Canada.         In
December 2007, we entered into a collaboration with BMS which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we and BMS will commercialize Atripla in the European Union, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Either we, BMS or a
third-party distributor will act as the selling party in these countries and be responsible for, among other things, receiving and processing customer orders, warehousing product, collecting sales and handling returns. Manufacturing of Atripla will
be coordinated by us, and we will be primarily responsible for distribution logistics. In general, the parties will share revenues and out-of-pocket expenses in proportion to the net selling prices of Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate), with respect to us, and efavirenz, with respect to BMS.        Access in the Developing World        Through the Gilead Access Program, established in 2002, we make Truvada and Viread available at substantially reduced prices in more than 125 countries in
the developing world. We have developed a system of tiered pricing that reflects the economic status (using gross national income GNI per capita) and disease prevalence of low- and lower middle-income countries. This approach allows us to
price our therapies based on a country s ability to pay. For example, if a higher prevalence exists in a certain country, but the country also has a relatively high GNI, the country would be moved to a lower price tier to accommodate higher
burden of disease.      We also support many clinical studies through the donation of our products to help define the best treatment strategies
in the developing world. Some of the studies that we support include:       

The DART Study.  In November 2002, we entered into a collaborative agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) of the United Kingdom, Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH and GSK in connection with a five-year clinical study conducted by the MRC on antiretroviral HIV therapy in Africa. The trial is called the DART (Development of AntiRetroviral Therapy) study and is aimed at studying clinical versus
laboratory monitoring practices and structured treatment interruptions on continuous antiretroviral therapy in adults with HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. We provide Viread at no cost for the DART study.          

The Institute for One World Health.  In January 2003, we entered into an agreement with the Institute for One World Health, pursuant to which we provide
AmBisome at our cost for a Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating AmBisome for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis with paromomycin in India, where the greatest global burden of visceral leishmaniasis exists. The clinical trial has been
conducted by the Institute for One World Health in partnership with the World Health Organization.         We have also entered
into a number of collaborations in the developing world, which include:       

Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd (Aspen).  In October 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing and distribution agreement with Aspen, providing for
the manufacture and distribution of Viread and Truvada to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program. In November 2007, we amended our agreement with Aspen. Under the amended agreement, Aspen retained the right to
manufacture and distribute Viread and Truvada in certain developing world countries in our Gilead Access Program. Aspen has the right to purchase Viread and Truvada in brite-stock form from us for distribution in such countries, and also has the
right to manufacture Viread and Truvada using active pharmaceutical ingredient that has been purchased by Aspen from suppliers  
          
   11   

Table of Contents  

approved by us. Aspen was also granted an option to manufacture and distribute generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate that meet
certain regulatory standards. Upon executing the amended agreement, Aspen notified us that they intend to exercise their option to manufacture and distribute the generic products in certain developing world countries. Aspen is required to pay us
royalties on net sales of Viread and Truvada, or generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate manufactured and distributed by Aspen.          

Generic Licenses.  During 2006, we entered into non-exclusive license agreements with ten Indian generic manufacturers, granting them the rights to produce
and distribute generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 low-income countries around the world, which included India and many of the low-income countries in our Gilead Access Program. The agreements require that the generic
manufacturers meet certain national and international regulatory standards and include technology transfer to enable expeditious production of large volumes of high-quality generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. In addition, these
agreements allow for the manufacture of commercial quantities of both active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product.          

Merck.  In August 2006, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Merck pursuant to which we provide Atripla at substantially reduced prices to
HIV-infected patients in developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America and Southeast Asia, utilizing a different trade dress than our U.S. or European tablets. Under the agreement, we will manufacture Atripla using efavirenz supplied
by Merck, and Merck will handle distribution of the product in the countries covered by the agreement.          

International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) and CONRAD.  In December 2006, we entered into an agreement under which we granted rights to IPM and CONRAD,
a cooperating agency of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) committed to improving reproductive health by expanding the contraceptive choices of women and men, to develop, manufacture and, if proven efficacious, arrange for
distribution in resource-limited countries of tenofovir as a microbicide to prevent HIV infection.           Research Collaborations
       The following list is representative of our research collaborations:       

Research Collaboration Partner    
      
     Program Area    
      
   Year of Signing    
 
  University of Texas System  
      
    Novel compounds for the treatment     of cardiac hypertrophy, heart disease and heart failure as well as fibrosis, respiratory and pulmonary diseases   
      
  1999   
 
  Abbott Laboratories  
      
    Darusentan for the treatment of     certain hypertensive conditions   
      
  2003   
 
  Novartis Institutes  
      
    Novel compounds for the treatment of     cardiovascular disease   
      
  2003   
 
  Novartis Vaccines  
      
  Small molecule therapeutics against certain hepatitis C virus (HCV) drug targets  
      
  2003   
 
  Genelabs  
      
    Nucleoside, RNA polymerase inhibitors for     the treatment of HCV   
      
  2004   
 
  Achillion  
      
  Compounds for the treatment of HCV  
      
  2004   

Japan Tobacco  
      
    Elvitegravir (also known as GS 9137) for     the treatment of HIV   
      
  2005   
 
  Parion  
      
  P-680 (GS 9411), an epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) inhibitor for the treatment of pulmonary diseases  
      
  2007   

LGLS  
      
  Caspase inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases  
      
  2007   

University of Texas System.  In December 1999, we entered into a license agreement with the University of Texas System, granting us exclusive rights to
certain patents and technology related to cardiac hypertrophy, heart disease and heart failure. Concurrently, we entered into a sponsored research  
          
   12   

Table of Contents  

agreement with the university to fund research on cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. In November
2007, we amended and restated the sponsored research agreement to extend the term of the research collaboration to March 2009, expand the scope of the research collaboration to include research relating to fibrosis, respiratory and pulmonary
diseases and increase the amount of funding that we are providing for the sponsored research. Concurrently, we amended and restated the license agreement to provide us with the right to license inventions arising from the sponsored research
conducted under the amended and restated sponsored research agreement. We are obligated to pay certain annual fees as well as a percentage of sublicense revenue and royalties based upon net sales. Additionally, we are obligated to make milestone
payments for any products developed from the licensed technology.         In January 2002, we entered into a second license
agreement, which was amended in February 2004 and November 2007, and a related sponsored research agreement with the University of Texas System, which was also amended in May 2003 and November 2007. Under these amended agreements, we received
exclusive rights to certain patents and technology relating to cardiac hypertrophy, heart disease and heart failure, including inventions that arose during the conduct of the sponsored research. The research conducted under the sponsored research
agreement has been completed. We have an obligation to pay milestone payments plus a percentage of sublicense revenue and royalties based upon a percentage of net sales on products covered by the license agreement.       

Abbott.  In June 2003, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Abbott to develop and commercialize darusentan for all conditions except
oncology. We are obligated to make future milestone payments as well as pay royalties based on net sales if we successfully commercialize the drug for any indication. If we do not commercialize darusentan in certain markets, Abbott may market the
product on its own in the affected markets and pay us a royalty on its sales. Darusentan is currently being studied in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of patients with resistant hypertension.          

Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Inc. (Novartis Institutes).  In October 2003, we entered into a research collaboration with Novartis Institutes
for the discovery and development of novel drugs for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Novartis Institutes provides research funding to us in exchange for rights to license compounds developed under the collaboration. In May 2005, the
collaboration was expanded to include the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) program acquired from Myogen, Inc. (Myogen). Novartis Institutes has the exclusive option to license our discoveries in the relevant field, with limited exceptions,
until May 2008 (relating to HDACi product candidates) and until October 2008 (relating to product candidates other than HDACi product candidates). Upon execution of a license for a product candidate, Novartis Institutes is obligated to fund all
further development of that product candidate, make payments to us upon the achievement of certain milestones and pay us royalties for sales if the product is successfully commercialized. To date, Novartis Institutes has not licensed any drug
targets or compounds under the terms of the collaboration.          

Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis Vaccines).  In August 2003, we entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Novartis Vaccines, as
successor to Chiron Corporation, for the research, development and commercialization of small molecule therapeutics against selected HCV drug targets. Under the agreement, we received non-exclusive rights to use Novartis Vaccines s HCV
technology to develop and commercialize products for the treatment of HCV. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Novartis Vaccines an up-front license fee and agreed to make additional payments if certain clinical, regulatory or other
contractually determined milestones are met. Additionally, we are obligated to make royalty payments in the event a product is developed using the licensed technology.          

Genelabs Technologies, Inc. (Genelabs).  In September 2004, we entered into a license and research collaboration agreement with Genelabs to research, develop
and commercialize certain of Genelabs s novel nucleoside inhibitors of HCV polymerase for the treatment of chronic infection caused by HCV. In conjunction with the signing of the agreement, we paid an up-front license fee. The agreement  
          
   13   

Table of Contents  

provided that we would support ongoing research into nucleoside HCV inhibitors at Genelabs and fund full-time equivalents over a three year term, which
expired in September 2007. We are currently selecting certain inhibitors for further development, and are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of certain milestones and pay royalties on future net sales of selected compounds
that are developed and approved in relation to the collaboration.          

Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Achillion).  In November 2004, we entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Achillion. Pursuant to
this agreement, we were granted worldwide rights for the research, development and commercialization of certain small molecule HCV replication inhibitors involving HCV protease for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. Under this collaboration,
Achillion is obligated to continue development of the inhibitor compounds according to a mutually agreed upon development plan, through completion of a proof-of-concept clinical study in HCV-infected patients. The costs incurred to achieve
proof-of-concept will be shared equally between Achillion and us up to a contractually agreed upon budget. Following the proof-of-concept study, we are obligated to assume full responsibilities and incur all costs associated with development and
commercialization of compounds warranting further development. Achillion has the option to participate in U.S. commercialization efforts for future products arising from this collaboration. In conjunction with the signing of the collaboration, we
paid an up-front license fee and made certain investments in Achillion s equity. We also agreed to make payments to Achillion upon achievement of certain milestones outlined in the agreement and to pay royalties on future net sales of products
arising from the collaboration. In December 2006, Achillion began dosing HCV-infected patients in a Phase 1/2 clinical study of GS 9132 (also known as ACH-806) for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. In February 2007, based on preliminary data
from the Phase 1b/2 study, the companies decided to discontinue development of GS 9132. The two companies continue to explore other NS4A antagonists discovered by Achillion with Gilead taking the lead on future preclinical and clinical development
work once an appropriate candidate is identified.          

Japan Tobacco.  In March 2005, we entered into a licensing agreement with Japan Tobacco, under which Japan Tobacco granted us exclusive rights to develop and
commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor (also known as GS 9137), in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco would retain such rights. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid an up-front license fee and
a milestone payment. Additionally, we are obligated to make additional cash payments upon the achievement of certain milestones, as well as pay royalties based on any net sales in the territories where we market the product.

Parion Sciences, Inc. (Parion).  In August 2007, we entered into an exclusive licensing and co-development agreement with Parion focused on P-680 (GS 9411),
an epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) inhibitor discovered by Parion. The agreement granted us worldwide commercialization rights to GS 9411 for the treatment of pulmonary diseases, including cystic fibrosis (CF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
and non-CF bronchiectasis. In addition, we and Parion will collaborate on a research program to identify other promising ENaC blocker-based drug candidates utilizing Parion s proprietary ENaC-based chemistry platform. Under the terms of the
agreement, we paid Parion an up-front payment. In addition, we are obligated to provide research funding, pay Parion royalties based on potential future products sales and make cash payments upon achievements of certain milestones.

LG Life Sciences, Ltd (LGLS) . In November 2007, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with LGLS focused on the development of caspase inhibitors for
the treatment of fibrotic diseases. The agreement granted us commercialization rights to LGLS s caspase inhibitors, including LB84451 (now known as GS 9450). GS 9450 is an investigational caspase inhibitor currently being evaluated in a Phase
2a clinical trial in patients chronically infected with HCV. The agreement also obligated us to fund a collaborative research program for two years to identify other potential caspase inhibitor drug candidates. Under the terms of the agreement, we
paid LGLS an up-front license payment and will be obligated to fund additional research and pay LGLS royalties based on net product sales. We may also be obligated to make milestone payments upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory
and  
          
   14   

Table of Contents  

commercial objectives. Our license is worldwide, with the exception of Korea, China and India where LGLS has retained rights. LGLS also has retained the
right to develop and commercialize caspase inhibitors for ophthalmic and topical uses worldwide.          Research and Development
      In addition to entering into collaborations with other companies, universities and medical research institutions, we seek to add to our
existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs and through an active in-licensing and product acquisition strategy, such as with our acquisitions of Myogen and Corus Pharma, Inc. during 2006. We have
research scientists in Foster City and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; Seattle, Washington; and Westminster, Colorado, engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to new medicines
and novel formulations of existing drugs.      Our internal research is focused on the discovery and development of treatments for diseases in
the following areas:       

HIV            In February 2007,
we completed a Phase 2 study of elvitegravir, also known as GS 9137, our novel integrase inhibitor for HIV licensed from Japan Tobacco. We are in discussions with the FDA and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) concerning the design of
the Phase 3 program, and pending a positive outcome of these discussions, we hope to dose the first patients in a Phase 3 clinical study for elvitegravir in 2008.      During the third quarter of 2007, we completed a Phase 1 single dose pharmacokinetic study of GS 9131 in healthy volunteers. GS 9131 is a novel nucleotide analog designed to deliver high intracellular concentrations
of the active molecule allowing for lower doses with higher potency. Results from the Phase 1 study confirmed the preclinical results of delivery of high intracellular concentrations of the compound at low doses of GS 9131. As a result, pending
discussions with the FDA on the design of the Phase 1/2 protocol, we anticipate dosing the first patients in a Phase 1/2 study evaluating GS 9131 in treatment-experienced HIV infected patients with confirmed NRTI resistance during the first half of
2008.       

Hepatitis            In HBV, in
November 2007, we presented positive results from two Phase 3 pivotal studies comparing the efficacy and safety of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread, versus Hepsera in patients with chronic hepatitis B.
Based on these data, in October 2007, we filed a supplemental new drug application (NDA) with the FDA, as well as a Type II variation to the EMEA, for marketing approval of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults.      In HCV, in November 2007, we released preliminary Phase 1a/b data on the single dose and first two doses of a seven-day treatment course of GS 9190, our
novel non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor. The data demonstrated favorable antiviral activity, pharmacokinetics and exposure at the doses evaluated. In this study we also observed a possible QT prolongation at the 120 mg dose, a measure for
cardiovascular safety. We conducted and have now completed a pilot QT study in healthy volunteers at the 120 mg and the 40 mg doses, which confirmed QT prolongations at the 120 mg dose, but prolongations at the 40 mg dose were small and we
believe clinically manageable. Therefore, we are seeking the FDA s consent to reinitiate dosing of HCV-infected individuals to further define the efficacy and safety of the compound. Also in HCV, in November 2007, we entered into an
exclusive license agreement with LGLS focused on the development of caspase inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases. The agreement granted us commercialization rights to LGLS s caspase inhibitors, including GS 9450, LGLS s lead
compound formerly called LB84451. GS 9450 is an investigational  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

caspase inhibitor currently being evaluated in a Phase 2a clinical trial in patients with chronic hepatitis C. We anticipate data from this trial by the
end of 2008. In addition, our research collaborations with Achillion and Genelabs continue and we hope development candidates emerge from those efforts.       

Respiratory and Cardiovascular Diseases            In the respiratory area, in October 2007, we presented data from the second of two pivotal Phase 3 studies of aztreonam lysine for inhalation, an inhaled antibiotic for the treatment of patients with CF who have
pulmonary infection with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  ( P. aeruginosa ). In November 2007, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for marketing approval of aztreonam lysine for inhalation (75 mg three times daily) for the treatment of pulmonary  P.
aeruginosa  infection in people with CF. Based on discussions with the EMEA, we plan to submit a marketing authorization application in the second quarter of 2008. In October 2007, we also presented data on GS 9310/11, a proprietary inhaled
formulation of tobramycin and fosfomycin, demonstrating the compound s activity against pathogens commonly found in patients with CF and bronchiectasis. Based on these and other pre-clinical study results, we initiated and completed a single
Phase 1a study in healthy volunteers and began enrolling patients with either CF or bronchiectasis in a Phase 1b study in the third quarter of 2007.      In the cardiovascular area, we are conducting two Phase 3 clinical studies for darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension, a program we obtained from the Myogen acquisition, and we expect to complete enrollment and receive data
from both of these studies in 2009. In addition, our research collaborations with both the University of Texas and Novartis Institutes continue and we seek to identify development candidates for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders.   
  We face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including each of those listed above. These risks include challenges in clinical
trial protocol design, our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to
obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates. If these programs and
others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted.      In total, our research and development expenses for 2007 were $591.0 million, compared with $383.9 million for 2006 and $277.7 million for 2005.       Patents and Proprietary Rights       Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. If we have a
properly designed and enforceable patent it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As
part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. We also rely
on trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovations and agreements with third parties to develop, maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy.      We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot
be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   The following table shows the actual or estimated expiration dates in the United States and Europe for
the primary patents and for patents that may issue under pending applications that cover the compounds in our marketed products:       
    Patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva,
Hepsera, Letairis and Vistide are held by third parties. We acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties. See  Commercial Collaborations  above. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in
AmBisome. Instead, we hold patents to the liposomal formulations of this compound and also protect formulations through trade secrets. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China and certain other Asian countries covering all forms of
adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. We do have applications pending in various countries in Asia, including China, that relate to specific forms and formulations of Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B
infection, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed. Further, the patent covering Flolan, which was held by a third party, and market exclusivity protection have expired. As a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may
launch a generic version of Flolan in the United States.      We may obtain patents for certain products many years before we obtain
marketing approval for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent
term extensions. For example, extensions for the patents on Vistide have been granted in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term extensions may be
available for other products that we are developing, but we cannot be certain we will obtain them.      It is also very important that we do
not infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and that we do not violate the agreements that grant proprietary rights to us. If we do infringe patents or violate these agreements, we could be prevented from developing or selling products or
from using the processes covered by those patents or agreements, or we could be required to obtain a license from the third party allowing us to use their technology. We cannot be certain that, if required, we could obtain a license to any
third-party technology or that we could obtain one at a reasonable cost. If we were not able to obtain a required license or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products, and our business could
be adversely affected. For example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of LEAP, our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. We are evaluating these patents and their relevance to LEAP.
     Because patent applications are confidential for at least some period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors
filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may
obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

compete with our patents. If competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or
litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are expensive even if we are ultimately successful.      Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not
always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or re-examination proceedings regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate our patents or substantially reduce their
protection. For example, in March 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, an active
ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and Viread. The PTO granted these requests in July 2007. The PTO issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a re-examination proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. We cannot
predict the ultimate outcome of these office actions. If we are unsuccessful in responding to these office actions, some or all of the original claims in our patents may be narrowed or invalidated. If the PTO narrows or invalidates any of our
patents, this may cause similar organizations to seek re-examination proceedings challenging our patents in foreign jurisdictions.      Our
pending patent applications and patent applications filed by our collaborative partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third
parties from developing the same compounds and products that we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries in Africa and Asia, including China, do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell
generic versions of our products in those countries.      As part of the approval process of some of our products, the FDA has determined that
the products would be granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting
products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in
making our products. It is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated NDA, which is the application form typically used by manufacturers
seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully.      We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. In particular, a great deal of our
liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate
partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be used or
disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions made by an individual while employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these parties
will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our research and development
agreements, inventions discovered in certain cases become jointly owned by us and our corporate partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one of us. It can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes
could arise regarding those inventions.      In August 2007, the PTO adopted new rules which were scheduled to become effective on
November 1, 2007. In October 2007, GSK successfully obtained a preliminary injunction against implementation of these rules. The rules include limitations on the number of claims that are permitted in a patent application, and the number of
continuing patent applications that can be filed. If the rules are implemented, we may be limited in our  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

ability to obtain broad patent coverage for our products and product candidates and this may allow competitors to market products very similar to ours or to
obtain patent coverage for closely related products.       Manufacturing and Raw Materials         Antiviral Products        We contract with third parties to manufacture our antiviral products for
clinical and commercial purposes, including Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and Vistide. We had not historically manufactured any of our antiviral products on a commercial scale. However, as a result of our acquisition of Raylo Chemicals
Inc., a subsidiary of Germany-based specialty chemicals company Degussa AG, in November 2006, we began to produce quantities of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical
ingredients of Truvada and Atripla, and emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla, at our Edmonton, Alberta, Canada facility. We also utilize this site for
process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, for the manufacture of our active pharmaceutical ingredients for investigational products and for our chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing
processes.      We continue to use multiple third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture additional quantities of tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate and emtricitabine, and to manufacture adefovir dipivoxil, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Hepsera, and cidofovir, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Vistide.      We use multiple third-party contract manufacturers to tablet Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva and Hepsera. These manufacturers have been qualified and
are approved to supply product to the United States, the European Union and other markets. Emtriva capsulation is also completed by third-party contract manufacturers. We use a single third-party manufacturer to supply Vistide.      We fill and package drug product for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva and Hepsera in their finished forms at our facilities in San Dimas, California and
near Dublin, Ireland. In September 2007, we acquired Nycomed Limited, a wholly-owned Irish subsidiary of Germany-based pharmaceutical company, Nycomed GmbH. We have transferred certain of our operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to this
facility located in Cork, Ireland, and utilize the site primarily for solid dose tablet manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities.      Roche, by itself and through third parties, is responsible for the manufacturing of Tamiflu. Under our agreement with Roche, through a joint
manufacturing committee composed of representatives from Roche and us, we have the opportunity to review Roche s existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu.      For our future antiviral products, we will continue to consider developing additional manufacturing capabilities and establishing additional third-party
suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to undertake clinical trials and to manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale. If we are unable to develop manufacturing
capabilities internally or contract for large scale manufacturing with third parties on acceptable terms for our future antiviral products, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer demand for commercial products would be
adversely affected.      We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For our antiviral products, we have
disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to contract manufacturers to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or revealing
this technology, but we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. In addition, these manufacturers could develop their own technology related to the work they perform for us that we may need to manufacture our
products. We could be required to enter into  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

additional agreements with these manufacturers if we wanted to use that technology ourselves or allow another manufacturer to use that technology. The
manufacturer could refuse to allow us to use their technology or could demand terms to use their technology that are not acceptable to us.        AmBisome
       We manufacture AmBisome in commercial quantities at our FDA-approved facilities in San Dimas, California. The Medicines Control
Agency of the United Kingdom and the FDA approved the commercial production of AmBisome in these facilities. To import AmBisome into the European Union, we own a manufacturing facility near Dublin, Ireland where we perform quality control testing,
final labeling, packaging and distribution for the European Union and elsewhere. We use commercially available materials and equipment to manufacture these products. Currently, we obtain the cholesterol that we use to manufacture AmBisome from a
single approved supplier.      AmBisome is sold as a freeze-dried product. Given our current projections for AmBisome demand, we believe we
have sufficient production capacity at our San Dimas facility to meet future demand. We also have the option of installing additional freeze-drying capacity in San Dimas should additional requirements become necessary.        Letairis        We manufacture the active
pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis exclusively at our Edmonton, Alberta facility, although another third-party supplier is qualified to make the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis. We rely on a single third-party supplier to tablet
Letairis.        Flolan        GSK and its
affiliates, by themselves or through third parties, manufacture Flolan for distribution by us in the United States under the terms of our distribution and supply agreement with GSK.        Macugen        We manufacture Macugen in commercial quantities at our facilities in San Dimas under
our manufacturing agreements with OSI and Pfizer. Currently, OSI provides pegaptanib sodium, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Macugen. Based on OSI s and Pfizer s current projections for Macugen demand, we believe we have sufficient
production capacity to meet future demand.       Seasonal Operations and Backlog       Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality. However, our royalty revenues, which represented about 11% of our total
revenues in 2007 and of which Tamiflu royalties comprised a significant portion, is affected by seasonality. Royalty revenue that we recognize from Roche s sales of Tamiflu can be impacted by the severity associated with flu seasons and product
delivery in response to the avian influenza pandemic threat.      For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times
and the absence of significant backlogs. We do not believe that backlog information is material to our business as a whole.       Government Regulation  
     Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and other
countries. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. The Federal  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record
keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming.      The FDA must approve a drug before it can be sold in the United States. The general process for this approval is as follows:        Preclinical Testing        Before we can test a drug
candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments and in animals to generate data to support the drug candidate s potential benefits and safety. We submit this data to the FDA in an investigational new drug (IND) application
seeking their approval to test the compound in humans.        Clinical Trials        If the FDA accepts the IND application, we study the drug candidate in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective.
These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:       

Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for safety, dose
tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.          

Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best dose of the
drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 2 clinical trials.

Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those results. Phase 3
clinical trials are long-term, involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and benefits of a drug
candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 3 clinical trials.           FDA Approval Process        When we believe that the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials show an
adequate level of safety and efficacy, we submit the appropriate filing, usually in the form of an NDA or sNDA, with the FDA seeking approval to sell the drug candidate for a particular use. The FDA may hold a public hearing where an independent
advisory committee of expert advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This committee makes a recommendation to the FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by the FDA. If the FDA agrees that
the compound has met the required level of safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in the United States for that use. It is not unusual, however, for the FDA to reject an application because it believes
that the drug candidate is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable or conclusive.      At any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate could be stopped for a number of reasons including safety concerns and lack of treatment benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently
conducting or any that we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within any specified time period. We may choose, or the FDA may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that the patients are
being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   The FDA may also require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further
characterize safety and efficacy during commercial use of our drug. The FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive post-marketing testing
and surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our product candidates if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits of the drug. In addition, even if the FDA approves a drug, it could limit the
uses of the drug. The FDA can withdraw approvals if it does not believe that we are complying with regulatory standards or if problems are uncovered or occur after approval.      In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the manufacturing facilities for any drug we sell, including those of
companies who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA must also approve foreign establishments that manufacture products to be sold in the United States and these facilities are
subject to periodic regulatory inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California, including our San Dimas and Foster City facilities, also must be licensed by the State of California in compliance with local regulatory requirements. Our
manufacturing facilities located in Canada, including our Edmonton, Alberta facility and our facilities located near Dublin and in Cork, Ireland, also must obtain local licenses and permits in compliance with local regulatory requirements.
     Drugs that treat serious or life-threatening diseases and conditions that are not adequately addressed by existing drugs and for which the
development program is designed to address the unmet medical need may be designated as fast track candidates by the FDA and may be eligible for accelerated and priority review. Drugs for the treatment of HIV that are designated for use under the
President s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief may also qualify for an expedited or priority review. Viread, Truvada and Atripla received accelerated approval and priority reviews. Drugs receiving accelerated approval must be monitored in
post-marketing clinical trials in order to confirm the safety and benefits of the drug.      We are also subject to other federal, state and
local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. We use hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds in our research and development activities and cannot eliminate the risk of accidental
contamination or injury from these materials. Any misuse or accidents involving these materials could lead to significant litigation, fines and penalties.      Drugs are also subject to extensive regulation outside of the United States. In the European Union, there is a centralized approval procedure that authorizes marketing of a product in all countries of the European
Union (which includes most major countries in Europe). If this centralized approval procedure is not used, approval in one country of the European Union can be used to obtain approval in another country of the European Union under one of two
simplified application processes: the mutual recognition procedure or the decentralized procedure, both of which rely on the principle of mutual recognition. After receiving regulatory approval through any of the European registration procedures,
pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required in most countries.        Pricing and Reimbursement        Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payor reimbursement for the cost of
such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. Government authorities and third-party payors increasingly are challenging the price
of medical products and services, particularly for innovative new products and therapies. This has resulted in lower average selling prices. For example, a majority of our sales of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, AmBisome, Letairis and Vistide
are subject to reimbursement by government agencies, resulting in significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. Our business may be adversely affected by an increase in pricing pressures in the United States or internationally. These
pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.
        
   22   

Table of Contents  

   Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs
occur relatively frequently in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There have been significant changes to the federal Medicare system in recent years in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the Medicare
Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D. The prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we have
benefited initially from patients transitioning from Medicaid to Medicare Part D in 2006, the longer term impact of this new law on our business is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of
coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. Some of the entities providing
Medicare Part D coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to
directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. The increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients will have to pay co-insurance, which
may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. In
addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse
effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. Additionally, health care reform at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect payment for our drugs. At this time, a few states have already enacted health
care reform legislation.      In Europe, the success of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome will also depend largely on
obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can
delay commercialization by 12 months or more. We also expect that the success of our product candidates, particularly in Europe, will depend on our ability to obtain reimbursement for these product candidates when commercialized. Even if
reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. For example, in Europe as in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals
and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. As new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the European countries. We believe
that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected
rates of growth.        Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws        We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care  fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug
manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the increasing
attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities, it is possible that certain of our practices may be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing
to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items
or services. Our sales and marketing activities may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the
possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
        
   23   

Table of Contents  

   In November 2006, we received a subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office in San Francisco
requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for Truvada, Viread and Emtriva. We are complying with the U.S. Attorney s subpoena and intend to cooperate with any related government investigation.        Compulsory Licenses        In a number of developing
countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant
compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the
affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. As a result of discussions with the Brazilian
government, we reached agreement with the Brazilian Health Ministry in May 2006 to reduce the price of Viread in Brazil by approximately 50%. In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic
have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing and
least-developed countries under Canada s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group)
Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu patents, or should Roche
issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and
manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if
generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales.       Employees       As of January 31, 2008, we had approximately 2,979 full-time employees. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.       Environment       We seek to comply with all applicable
statutory and administrative requirements concerning environmental quality. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection. Expenditures for compliance with environmental laws have not had, and are
not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.       Other Information    
  We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with
the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an electronic message to
the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   The mailing address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404, and our
telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the  Investors  section of our website (under  SEC Filings  in the  Financial Information  section), we make available
the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge upon request.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS          In evaluating our business, you
should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We
note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement
of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face.        A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of a limited number of
products. If we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of our HIV products, our results of operations may be adversely affected.       We are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, especially Truvada and Atripla, to support our existing operations. Our HIV products contain tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. Were the treatment paradigm for HIV to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our
HIV product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (R D) efforts. HIV product sales for the year ended December 31, 2007
were $3.14 billion, or 74% of our total revenues, and sales of Truvada and Atripla accounted for 51% and 29%, respectively, of our total HIV product sales during the year ended December 31, 2007. We may not be able to continue the growth rate
of sales of our HIV products for the reasons stated in this risk factor section and, in particular, for the following reasons:       

As our HIV products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues
with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could
reduce our revenues.          

As our HIV products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases
pressure on us to reduce prices.          

A large part of the market for our HIV products consists of patients who are already taking other HIV drugs. If we are not successful in encouraging physicians to
change patients  regimens to include our HIV products, the sales of our HIV products will be limited.          

As generic HIV products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing may be affected.          A substantial portion of our pre-tax income is derived from royalty revenue recognized from sales of Tamiflu by Roche. As sales of Tamiflu decrease, our pre-tax
income will be disproportionately affected.       F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu
worldwide for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. We recognized $414.5 million in royalty revenue during the year ended December 31, 2007 related to royalties  
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

received from fourth quarter 2006 and first three quarters of 2007 sales of Tamiflu by Roche. Although such royalty revenue represented less than 10% of our
total revenues in 2007, it represented 18% of our pre-tax income during the period. Roche s Tamiflu sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. Sales of Tamiflu declined sharply
in the second half of 2007 due to the fulfillment of most of the existing pandemic stockpiling orders from governments and corporations. Roche recently reported that it expects a significant decrease in Tamiflu sales in 2008. As sales of Tamiflu
decrease, our royalty revenue will decrease and our pre-tax income will decrease disproportionately. Any such decrease could be material.       If we fail to
commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues and our stock price may be adversely affected.       If we do not introduce new products or increase revenues from our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues. Each new product commercialization effort, including Letairis for
the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), which we launched in the United States in June 2007, will face the risks outlined in this section. If we fail to increase sales of our products or bring new products to market, we may not be
able to increase revenues and expand our R D efforts. For example, the new drug application (NDA) submitted by us in November 2007 for aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) or the marketing authorization
applications submitted by us in October 2007 for Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in the United States and the European Union may not be granted under the timelines currently anticipated, or at all.      Further, in December 2007, the Committee for Medicinal Product for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) granted marketing authorization for
Atripla in the European Union for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults with virologic suppression to HIV-1 RNA levels of less than 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more than three months. Patients must not
have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harbored virus strains with mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in Atripla. This restriction of
Atripla s use in the European Union will prevent us from promoting Atripla for use in patients who have not previously achieved this reduction in viral load through the use of antiretroviral therapy, including newly diagnosed patients. If we
seek to expand the indication for Atripla in the European Union, the EMEA may require us to perform additional clinical trials, which we may be unable to complete. If we are unable to expand the indication for Atripla to include a broader population
of patients, the impact to future sales of Atripla in the European Union is unknown but could be more limited than in other markets, including the United States, where we have no such restrictions. In addition, sales of Atripla may increase at the
expense of product sales of its component products and our overall total revenues may not increase as Atripla sales increase.      We face
numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel HIV integrase inhibitor also known as GS 9137, and darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension, both currently in Phase 3 clinical trials,
that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. These risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical
trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory body approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Further, we
may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If these programs and others in our pipeline cannot
be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

    We face significant competition.       We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. In addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in
the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. Our HIV products compete primarily with products from GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK), which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with Truvada and Atripla. For Hepsera, we have
encountered increased competition with Baraclude (entecavir) from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) and Tyzeka/Sebivo (telbivudine) from Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) in the United States, the European Union and China. For
AmBisome, we compete primarily with products produced by Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck) and Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). In addition, we are aware of at least three lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside
of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. Furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these
formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association. Letairis competes directly with Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. s Tracleer (bosentan) and indirectly with PAH products from United Therapeutics
Corporation and Pfizer. Aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of CF, if approved for marketing, will compete with TOBI (tobramycin for inhalation) marketed by Novartis. Viread for the treatment of the hepatitis B virus, if approved for
marketing, will compete with Hepsera, our current product for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, Hepsera, as well as Baraclude (entecavir), and Tyzeka/Sebivo (telbivudine).       If significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations.       The data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in
controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from limited post-approval use. As our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients taking numerous other medicines, many of whom have underlying health problems,
we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the
market acceptance of these products. Safety and efficacy studies of Viread and Emtriva, dosed as separate products, are ongoing and have been underway for a longer period of time than the safety and efficacy studies of Truvada (Viread and Emtriva
together), which are also underway. We are also conducting similar studies of Atripla (Truvada and Sustiva together). In addition, our product Letairis, which was approved by the FDA in June 2007, is a member of a new class of compounds called
endothelin receptor antagonists which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. Because of these risks, Letairis is available only through the Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), a restricted
distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. As the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with
Letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of Letairis which may decrease demand for the product. For example, since the launch of Letairis, cases of edema in certain patients taking
Letairis have been reported. This information has recently been added to the product label, which may negatively impact demand for the product. If serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these
products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities.       Our operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable
international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products.       The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the
FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. We are continuing clinical trials for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, AmBisome and Letairis for  
       
   27   

Table of Contents  

currently approved and additional uses. We anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional products over the
next several years. These products may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all.      In addition, our marketed products
and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in
restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls,
seizure of products and criminal prosecution.      On September 27, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Food and Drug Administration
Amendments Act of 2007 (the FDAAA), which created significant additions to the FDA s authority. The FDAAA expanded the FDA s authority, among other things, to:       

require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected
serious risk;          

mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product s lifecycle, based on new safety information; and          

require sponsors to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a
communication plan to healthcare providers, or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product.         Failure to comply with the new requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the FDA, could result in significant civil monetary penalties.       The results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely
affect our prospects for future revenue growth.       We are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for
each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. The results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. Even successfully completed
large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results of our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to
support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. For example, we observed a possible QT prolongation, a measure for cardiovascular safety, in our Phase 1a/b study of our
novel non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, also known as GS 9190. As a result, we conducted a pilot QT study in healthy volunteers at the 120 mg and the 40 mg bid doses. QT prolongations were confirmed at the 120 mg dose, but prolongations at the 40
mg dose were small and we believe clinically manageable. We are seeking the FDA s consent to reinitiate dosing of HCV-infected individuals to further define the efficacy and safety of the compound. This has delayed the development of this
compound and if we are unable to obtain the FDA s consent to reinitiate dosing, this program may be further delayed or we may decide to cease our efforts to commercialize this compound. In addition, we may face challenges in clinical trial
protocol design. For example, we are in discussions with the FDA and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency concerning the design of the Phase 3 clinical studies of elvitegravir, our novel HIV integrase inhibitor also known as GS 9137. If the
results from these discussions are not positive, clinical trials of elvitegravir may not be completed on a timely basis or at all and our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. In addition, clinical trials involving our
commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

    Due to our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to
directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials.       We extensively outsource our clinical trial
activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (CROs), over which we do not have control, to perform most of our clinical studies, including
document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. If there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our CROs, our clinical trials may be
delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party CROs. If any of our CROs  processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our
own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. In February 2007, we were advised by the FDA that it discovered certain irregularities during its inspection of bioanalytical analyses conducted for various
organizations by one of our third-party CROs. During the period under review, the CRO performed bioanalytical analyses in studies for certain of our products. We do not know whether the investigation involves or will impact any of our clinical data
results or related regulatory approvals.       Manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our
results of operations.       We depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for Truvada,
Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Vistide . In addition, Roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing Tamiflu. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated, and
regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We and third-party manufacturers are subject to the FDA s current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are extensive regulations governing
manufacturing processes, stability testing, record-keeping and quality standards and similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our manufacturing operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. Additionally,
these third-party manufacturers are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of these third-party manufacturers fail to perform as required, this could impair
our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our
financial results may be adversely affected.       Our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize aztreonam lysine for inhalation, if approved,
will depend upon our ability to continue to manufacture in a multi-product facility.       Aztreonam lysine is a mono-bactam Gram-negative
antibiotic that we currently plan to manufacture, by ourselves or through third parties, in a multi-product manufacturing facility. Historically, the FDA has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities;
however, there can be no assurances that the FDA will continue to allow this practice. We do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation nor have we engaged a contract
manufacturer with a single-product facility for aztreonam lysine for inhalation. If the FDA prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam lysine for inhalation, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may
not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of aztreonam lysine for inhalation and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product, if
approved.       We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which could
limit our ability to generate revenues.       We need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials. Our inability
to obtain any of these materials in a timely manner may delay our development efforts for our product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

   Suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an NDA filed with the FDA for a product
candidate, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to
supply our products in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. For example, we manufacture AmBisome and fill and finish Macugen exclusively
at our facilities in San Dimas, California. In the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to
manufacture AmBisome and Macugen to meet market needs.      In addition, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is
used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and for the tableting of Letairis. Our product candidate, aztreonam lysine for inhalation, which is pending FDA approval, is
administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. We plan on seeking FDA approval for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation at our facilities in San Dimas, but currently rely on a
single third-party supplier for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation. There can be no guarantee that the FDA will approve our facility for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we
are aware that this third-party supplier has GMP compliance issues, which have resulted in the issuance of  approvable letters  by the FDA to other companies for which this supplier also manufactures. These approvable letters have
indicated that the FDA is prepared to approve the NDAs upon the satisfaction of certain specified conditions, which have included the resolution of the GMP compliance issues by this supplier. If this supplier is unable to resolve these GMP
compliance issues, we may also receive an approvable letter that will require the resolution of these compliance issues as a condition to obtaining marketing approval for the product. If the compliance issues are not
resolved in a timely manner or if we are not able to obtain FDA approval for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation at our facilities in San Dimas in a timely manner, aztreonam lysine for inhalation may not be approved in the anticipated
timeframe, and our anticipated sales of this drug may be negatively impacted. Problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts.       We depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. Failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these
companies or disputes with these other companies could negatively impact our business.       We rely on a number of significant collaborative
relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. These include collaborations with BMS for Atripla in the United States, Europe and Canada; Japan Tobacco Inc. for Viread, Truvada and
Emtriva in Japan; GSK for Hepsera outside of the United States; Astellas Pharma, Inc. for AmBisome in the United States and Canada and Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. for AmBisome in Japan; Pfizer for Vistide; Roche for Tamiflu; and OSI
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Pfizer for Macugen. In many countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome. Some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products
by our partners. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including:       

inability to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products;          

disputes that may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with corporate partners;          

disagreements with corporate partners that could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result
in litigation or arbitration;          

contracts with our corporate partners that may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to
perform;          

corporate partners having considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies
or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors;            
   30   

Table of Contents  

corporate partners with marketing rights that may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do
to products of their own development; and          

distributors and corporate partners that may be unable to pay us.         Given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could
be delayed or revenue from products could decline.      Under our April 2002 licensing agreement with GSK, we gave GSK the right to control
clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of Hepsera in territories in Asia, Africa and Latin America. These include major markets for Hepsera, such as China, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. The success of Hepsera in these territories
will depend almost entirely on the efforts of GSK. In this regard, GSK promotes Epivir-HBV/Zeffix, a product that competes with Hepsera. Consequently, GSK s marketing strategy for Hepsera may be influenced by its promotion of Epivir-HBV/Zeffix.
We receive royalties from GSK equal to a percentage of GSK s net sales of Hepsera as well as net sales of GSK s Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. If GSK fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing Hepsera
in its territories, our potential revenues from sales of Hepsera from these territories may be substantially reduced.      In addition,
Letairis is distributed through third-party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing
counseling. The use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these
specialty pharmacies will:       

not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints;          

not effectively sell or support Letairis;          

not devote the resources necessary to sell Letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;          

not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or          

cease operations.         We also rely on a
third party to administer LEAP, the restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. This third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of Letairis, confirms insurance
coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for Letairis by the FDA and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third-party
specialty pharmacies. Failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute Letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the FDA or decreased Letairis sales, either of which would harm our
business.      Further, we will be dependent on the supplier of the inhalation device that delivers aztreonam lysine for inhalation, if and
when regulatory approval is obtained, to distribute the device through specialty pharmacies or other distribution channels, and we will not have control over many key aspects related to the device. For example, the supplier could encounter issues
with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device at the time of a commercial launch or following such a launch. Any of these issues may cause a delay of the commercial launch of aztreonam
lysine for inhalation, and we would not be able to realize the anticipated contribution of aztreonam lysine for inhalation to our financial results.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

    Expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock
price.       The clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct
after approval, are very expensive. It is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter. Uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from
quarter to quarter.       Sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers and parallel importation make it difficult for us to
accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.       We estimate the future
demand for our products, consider the shelf life of our inventory and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. If actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an
adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, as a result of our review of inventory realizability, during the first and fourth quarters of 2006, we recorded write-downs of a portion of our Gilead Access Program inventory.      During the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 89% of our product sales in the United States were to three wholesalers, Cardinal Health,
Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp. Inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to wholesalers do not match end user demand. The U.S. wholesalers with whom we have
entered into inventory management agreements may not be completely effective in matching inventory levels to end user demand, as they make estimates to determine end user demand. The non-retail sector in the United States, which includes government
institutions, including state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs, correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, which contributed to approximately 30% of our sales of HIV products in the United States as of December 31, 2007,
tends to be less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror the purchasing patterns that can be seen in the retail sector.      In the European Union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another country. This allows buyers in countries where
government-approved prices for our products are relatively high to purchase our products from countries where the prices for our products are relatively low. Purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for
resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and us and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and be more difficult
to forecast. In addition, wholesalers may attempt to arbitrage the pricing differential between countries by purchasing excessive quantities of our products. These activities may result in fluctuating quarterly sales in certain countries which do
not reflect the actual demand for our products from customers. Such quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price. For example, during 2007, we experienced increased sales of our HIV products in France.
We believe a portion of these products was being re-exported to other countries and resold at higher prices. Our sales of Truvada and Viread in France and any countries to or from which sales have been re-exported may continue to fluctuate. If these
activities continue in France, other European countries or elsewhere, our results of operations could be adversely affected.       Our success will depend to
a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. We may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents
of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology.       Patents and other proprietary rights are
very important to our business. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to:       

obtain patents and licenses to patent rights;            
   32   

Table of Contents  

preserve trade secrets; and          

operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others.         If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that
prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our
compounds, products and technology.      We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our
compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Patent applications are confidential for at least
some period of time until a patent is issued. As a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our
patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. In addition, if competitors file patent applications covering
our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are expensive even if we are ultimately successful. In addition, from time to time,
certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. For example, in March 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and Viread. The PTO granted these requests in July 2007. The PTO issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a re-examination proceeding
to initiate the re-examination process. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these office actions. If we are unsuccessful in responding to these office actions, some or all of the original claims in our patents may be narrowed or invalidated.
If the PTO narrows or invalidates any of our patents, this may cause similar organizations to seek re-examination proceedings challenging our patents in foreign jurisdictions.      Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China or certain other Asian countries covering
all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B infection, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed. Flolan s patent and market exclusivity protection has
expired. As a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of Flolan in the United States.      We may
obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the
patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions.      As part of the approval process of some of our
products, the FDA has determined that the products would be granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to
challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical
intermediates possibly for use in making our products. It is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated NDA, which is the application form
typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully.   
  In August 2007, the PTO adopted new rules which were scheduled to become effective on November 1, 2007. In October 2007, GSK successfully
obtained a preliminary injunction against implementation of these  
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

rules. The rules include limitations on the number of claims that are permitted in a patent application, and the number of continuing patent applications
that can be filed. If the rules are implemented, we may be limited in our ability to obtain broad patent coverage for our products and product candidates and this may allow competitors to market products very similar to ours or to obtain patent
coverage for closely related products.       Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other
proprietary rights of third parties.       If we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be
required to obtain licenses from these third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to
develop or commercialize some or all of our products. For example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of LEAP, our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. We are evaluating these patents and
their relevance to LEAP.      In addition, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary
know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. Our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors.       A significant portion of our product sales occur outside the United States, and currency fluctuations may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.       A significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. We use foreign currency forward and option
contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the Euro. We also hedge a portion of our accounts receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our
exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a sale is recorded and the date that cash is collected. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency
decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely
affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. The net foreign currency exchange impact on our 2007 pre-tax earnings, including revenues and expenses generated from
outside the United States and the impact of our hedging activities, was a favorable $71.2 million compared to 2006.      Our hedging program
only hedges a portion of our total exposure and significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time could adversely affect our results of operations.       We face credit risks from our European customers that may adversely affect our results of operations.       Our European product sales to government-owned or supported customers in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. Our accounts receivable from
government-owned or supported customers in these countries totaled approximately $436.4 million as of December 31, 2007. Historically, receivables accumulated over a period of time and were settled as large lump sum payments as government
funding became available. If significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these European governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our
results of operations would be adversely affected.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

    Our product revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at
lower prices.       Prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country.
Our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. There have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted
prices in the developing world and then re-exported to European countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. If this happens with our products, particularly Truvada and Viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially
reduced prices to more than 125 countries participating in our Gilead Access Program, or Atripla, which Merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to HIV-infected patients in developing countries under our August 2006 agreement, our revenues
would be adversely affected. In addition, we have established partnerships with ten Indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing world countries, including
India. If generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the United States, Europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected.      In addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are
relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we have observed an increase in cross-border sales in the European Union,
where we are required to permit cross-border sales. Further, some U.S. consumers have been able to purchase products, including HIV products, from internet pharmacies in other countries at substantial discounts. Such cross-border sales could
adversely affect our revenues and gross margin.       In some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic
competition for our products.       In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that
pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own
versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing
compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. As a result of discussions with the Brazilian government, we reached agreement with the Brazilian Health Ministry in May 2006 to reduce
the price of Viread in Brazil by approximately 50%. In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents.
For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing and least-developed countries under Canada s Access to
Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s
Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit
third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our
products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into
territories where we have existing commercial sales.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

    Our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. Pharmaceutical
pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability.       Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the
availability of governmental and third-party payor reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement.
Government authorities and third-party payors increasingly are challenging the price of medical products and services, particularly for innovative new products and therapies. This has resulted in lower average sales prices. For example, a majority
of our sales of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, AmBisome, Vistide and Letairis are subject to reimbursement by government agencies, resulting in significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. Our business may be adversely affected
by an increase in pricing pressures in the United States and internationally. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and
health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.      In Europe, the success of Truvada, Atripla, Viread,
Emtriva, Hepsera, AmBisome and Tamiflu will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments.
In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. We also expect that the success of our product candidates, particularly in Europe, will depend on our ability to obtain reimbursement
for these product candidates when commercialized. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. For example, in Europe as in many international markets,
governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. As new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for
our products across most of the European countries. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to
maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth.       Our results of operations could be adversely affected by current
and future health care reforms.       Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement
programs occur relatively frequently in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There have been significant changes to the federal Medicare system in recent years in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the
Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D. The prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we
have benefited initially from patients transitioning from Medicaid to Medicare Part D in 2006, the longer term impact of this new law on our business is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the
level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. Some of the entities
providing Medicare Part D coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal
government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. The increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients will have to pay
co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from the Medicare prescription drug
coverage legislation. In addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment
developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. Additionally, health care reform at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect payment for our drugs. At this time, a few states
have already enacted health care reform legislation.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

    We may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful
claims could materially reduce our earnings.       The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as
products in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. In recent years, coverage and availability of product liability
insurance has decreased. The cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage, which could impair our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and to market our
products. In addition, claims, regardless of their merit may impair our financial condition and future demand for our products.       Our assumptions used to
determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially impact our business.       We continually evaluate our levels of
self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. However, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our results of operations,
business, cash flow and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses.       Expensive litigation and government
investigations may reduce our earnings.       We, along with certain of our officers and a former officer, were named as defendants in a
class action lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws, which lawsuit has been dismissed by the court. However, the plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal. In November 2006, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office in
San Francisco requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for Truvada, Viread and Emtriva. We have complied with the U.S. Attorney s subpoena and intend to cooperate with any related government investigation. The
outcome of this lawsuit, any other lawsuits brought against us, the investigation, or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages,
penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows.       Changes in our effective income tax rate could
reduce our earnings.       Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. These factors include, but are
not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R D spending, changes in accounting standards,
future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact on
our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income.      Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2003 and 2004 tax years, by the Franchise Tax Board of California for the 2004 and
2005 tax years, and by various other state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and
amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. Adverse resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.       Changes in accounting may affect our financial position and results of operations.       U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the
adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   For example, on August 31, 2007, the FASB issued for comment a proposed Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position (FSP) APB 14-a,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  (FSP APB 14-a). The proposed FSP APB 14-a addresses
instruments commonly referred to as Instrument C from EITF Issue No. 90-19,  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion , which requires the issuer to settle the principal amount in cash and the conversion
spread in cash or net shares at the issuer s option. The proposed FSP APB 14-a requires bifurcation of the conversion option from the debt instrument, classification of the conversion option in equity, and then accretion of the resulting
discount on the debt to result in additional interest expense being reported in the income statement. In November 2007, after the expiration of the initial comment period, the FASB announced that it would begin its redeliberations of the guidance in
the proposed FSP in January 2008. The final guidance has not been issued and we cannot predict its ultimate outcome, including when the final guidance will be effective. We believe that if the FASB determines that we should account for Instrument C
securities in the manner described above, the accounting for our convertible senior notes would be affected and the change in presentation on our balance sheet and the adverse impact to our results of operations would be material.       If we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and
commercialize our product candidates.       Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain
highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and
private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. We may not be able to
attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not applicable.

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our corporate headquarters, including
our principal offices and some of our commercial, administrative, research and development (R D) facilities, are located in Foster City, California. At this location, we own 17 buildings.      We lease facilities in San Dimas, California, to house some of our manufacturing, warehousing and R D activities. In addition, we also lease
facilities in Durham, North Carolina; Westminster, Colorado; and Seattle, Washington to house some of our administrative and R D activities.      Our European headquarters, which include some of our commercial, medical and administrative facilities, are located in the London area in the United Kingdom.      We also lease and own facilities in the Dublin area of Ireland to house our manufacturing and distribution activities. We acquired a manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland in September 2007 in connection with the
acquisition of Nycomed Limited. We have transferred certain of our operations from our Dublin area site to this facility and utilize the site primarily for solid dose tablet manufacturing of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging
activities.      We also own a manufacturing facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, that we use to conduct process research and scale-up of our
clinical development candidates, the manufacturing of our active pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and our chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes.   
     
   38   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, we have leased additional facilities to house our commercial, medical and administrative
activities in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom.      We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased sites, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We believe our capital resources are sufficient to purchase, lease or
construct any additional facilities required to meet our long-term growth needs.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         Information pertaining to legal
proceedings can be found under the heading  Legal Proceedings  in Item 8, Note 12  Commitments and Contingencies  to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 114 and 115 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is
incorporated by reference herein.       

ITEM 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2007.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol  GILD . The following table sets forth for the periods indicated
the high and low intra-day sale prices per share of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. These prices represent quotations among dealers without adjustments for retail mark-ups, markdowns or commissions and may not represent prices
of actual transactions.       
    As of February 22, 2008, we had 928,870,032 shares of common stock outstanding held by
approximately 476 stockholders of record.      We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We currently expect to
retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near future.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Graph  (1)           The following graph compares our total stockholder returns
for the past five years to four indices: the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, labeled S P500 Index; the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index, labeled Nasdaq Biotechnology Index; the Nasdaq CRSP Total Return Index for
the Nasdaq Global Select Market (U.S. companies), labeled Nasdaq US Index; and the Nasdaq Pharmaceutical Index, labeled Nasdaq Pharmaceutical Index. The total return for each index assumes the reinvestment of all dividends, if any, paid by
companies included in these indices and are calculated as of December 31 of each year.      We are a composite member of each of the
S P500 Index and the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index and we intend to use these indices as comparators for our stock performance for the purposes of the following graph going forward. As a composite member of the
S P500 Index, we are required under applicable regulations to use this index as a comparator, and we believe the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index is a relevant comparator since it is composed of peer companies in lines-of-business
similar to ours.     The stockholder return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or
endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns.       Comparison of
Cumulative Total Return on Investment for Past Five Years  (2)          

(1)  
  This section is not  soliciting material,  is not deemed  filed  with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.     

(2)  
  Shows the cumulative return on investment assuming an investment of $100 in our common stock and the Nasdaq Biotechnology, S P 500, Nasdaq US and Nasdaq Pharmaceutical indices
on December 31, 2002.           
   41   

Table of Contents  

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       In October 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount up to $3.0 billion through open market
and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated share repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This stock repurchase program expires on December 31,
2010.      The table below summarizes our stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands, except per
share amounts):       

(1)  
  The difference between total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs is due to shares of common stock withheld by
us from an employee restricted stock award in order to satisfy our applicable tax withholding obligations.           
   42   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
       SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA        (in thousands, except per share data)        
     
        (1)       

During 2007, we completed the acquisition of Nycomed Limited for an aggregate purchase price of $48.3 million which was allocated primarily to property, plant and
equipment.          

During 2006, we completed the acquisition of Myogen, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $2.42 billion, of which $2.06 billion was allocated to purchased
in-process research and development (IPR D), $180.8 million was allocated to deferred tax assets primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations, $70.9 million was allocated to  
          
   43   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (Continued)          

goodwill and $110.0 million was allocated to net tangible assets. In 2006, we also acquired the net assets of Corus Pharma, Inc. for $415.5 million, of
which $335.6 million was allocated to purchased IPR D, $71.2 million was allocated to net deferred tax assets primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations, $7.2 million was
allocated to net tangible assets and $1.6 million was allocated to assembled workforce.          

During 2005, we recognized $80.7 million in royalty revenue relating to the resolution of our dispute with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche
Inc., Roche). We also recorded a tax provision benefit of $25.1 million related to our repatriation of qualified foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA).          

During 2004, we recorded a gain of $20.6 million related to our warrant to purchase capital stock of Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., as predecessor to OSI
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which completed its initial public offering.          

During 2003, we completed the acquisition of all of the net assets of Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $525.2 million.
Approximately $488.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to purchased IPR D. We also recorded an income tax benefit of $111.6 million related to the reduction of the valuation allowance on certain of our net deferred tax assets.
        (2)    We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
 on a modified prospective basis, beginning on January 1, 2006. See Notes 1 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.      (3)    On September 3, 2004 and June 22, 2007, we implemented two-for-one stock splits in the form of a stock dividend. All share and per share amounts for all periods presented have been restated to reflect
these stock splits.      (4)   

During 2006, we issued $1.30 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes in a private placement.          

During 2005, we entered into an uncollateralized $300.0 million term loan agreement to facilitate a cash dividend distribution as part of the repatriation of our
qualified foreign earnings under the provisions of the AJCA.         (5)    No cash dividends have been declared or paid on
our common stock.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         The following Management s Discussion and Analysis (MD A) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial
condition. MD A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements and other disclosures included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K (including the disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors ). Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and are presented in U.S. dollars.   
   Executive Summary       This past year marked the 20   th    anniversary of the founding of Gilead and the achievement of many important
milestones as we continued to discover, develop and commercialize innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. We grew our product sales significantly, we executed on several product approvals and launches in multiple territories,
in-licensed new compounds into our research pipeline as well as made progress on product candidates already in the clinic, integrated multiple sites that were acquired in 2006 and continued to strengthen our worldwide organization and
infrastructure.      Our operating results for 2007 were led by product sales of $3.73 billion. HIV product sales (Truvada, Atripla, Viread and
Emtriva) of $3.14 billion, which increased by 48% in 2007 over 2006, were the key driver for total product sales growth of 44% in 2007 compared to 2006. Total product sales of Truvada increased by $394.9 million (or 33%) in 2007 when compared to the
prior year, despite the availability of Atripla in the United States since July 2006. Atripla product sales in 2007 increased by $697.7 million from 2006. Together, Truvada and Atripla sales comprised 67% of our total product sales in 2007.
     In addition to the commercial progress and success of Atripla in the United States, we and our partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
(BMS), expanded our Atripla collaboration to include the 27 countries that comprise the European Union, as well as Norway and Iceland. In December 2007, we received approval from the European Commission to market and sell Atripla in these European
territories. We have already begun shipping Atripla to Germany, the United Kingdom and Austria, and expect to launch the product throughout the remainder of the European Union, as pricing and other sales and marketing matters are finalized and
approved. If Atripla continues to comprise a larger proportion of our total product sales, we expect our product gross margin will continue to decrease. This decrease results from the inclusion of BMS s Sustiva (efavirenz), which carries zero
gross margin, in product sales and cost of goods for Atripla. Our 2007 product gross margin decreased to 79% due to the higher percentage of Atripla in our mix of product sales as compared to 2006.      Hepsera product sales for 2007 increased 31% from 2006 driven primarily by sales volume growth across most major geographical regions as well as a
favorable foreign currency exchange environment. AmBisome product sales for 2007 increased 18% from 2006 driven primarily by sales volume growth in Europe as well as the impact of a favorable foreign currency exchange environment. Due to the
depreciation of the U.S. dollar against major European currencies in 2007, foreign currency denominated product sales experienced a net benefit from the foreign currency fluctuations after considering the impact of our hedging activities. This
resulted in foreign currency having a favorable impact of approximately $71.2 million on pre-tax income in 2007 compared to 2006.      In
addition to the growth in our product sales, royalty revenues increased by 12% in 2007 compared to 2006. Of the $468.2 million in royalty revenues that we recognized, $414.5 million were recorded from royalties on the sales of Tamiflu by F.
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche). Strong sales of Tamiflu by Roche, including sales of Tamiflu related to worldwide pandemic planning initiatives, contributed to the increase in our royalty revenues. Despite the
higher royalties recognized in 2007, Roche recently announced that they expect to see a marked decline in Tamiflu sales related to pandemic planning. We expect this decline to significantly reduce the royalties we receive from the sale of Tamiflu
which will adversely impact our 2008 financial results.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2007, Letairis (ambrisentan), a product acquired in our 2006 acquisition of Myogen Inc. (Myogen),
was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). In October 2007, we filed a supplemental new drug application (NDA) with the FDA, as well as a Type II variation with the
European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA), for the marketing approval of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults. Additionally, in November 2007, we submitted an NDA with the FDA for marketing approval of aztreonam lysine for
inhalation for the treatment of pulmonary  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  ( P. aeruginosa ) infection in people with cystic fibrosis (CF).      Along with the regulatory filings made in relation to Viread for hepatitis B and aztreonam lysine for inhalation for CF, we progressed the development of other compounds and drug candidates in-licensed from our collaboration partners,
including:       

In the HIV area, we completed a Phase 2 clinical trial of elvitegravir (GS 9137), our novel integrase inhibitor for HIV which we licensed from Japan Tobacco Inc. in
2005. Integrase inhibitors represent a new way of attacking HIV and a potential treatment alternative for patients who have developed resistance to existing classes of therapy. Pending a positive outcome of our discussions with the FDA and the EMEA
concerning the design of the Phase 3 program, we anticipate dosing patients in a Phase 3 clinical study for elvitegravir in 2008.          

In the hepatitis B area, we filed a supplemental NDA with the FDA, as well as a Type II variation with the EMEA, for the marketing approval of Viread for the
treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults. These applications were based on data we obtained from two key pivotal Phase 3 studies completed during the year. We anticipate decisions from the EMEA and the FDA in the second and third quarters of 2008,
respectively.          

In the hepatitis C area, we presented preliminary data in November 2007 on our lead compound against the hepatitis C virus, GS 9190, a non-nucleoside polymerase
inhibitor. After investigating QT prolongations at certain doses, pending the FDA s consent, we plan to reinitiate our Phase 1a/b study of GS 9190 to further define the efficacy and safety of the compound. During the year, we also entered into
an exclusive license agreement with LG Life Sciences, Ltd. (LGLS) to develop and commercialize certain caspase inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases. Caspase inhibitors are showing potential as treatments for chronic hepatitis C and
other diseases characterized by tissue scarring (fibrosis). The agreement granted us commercialization rights to LGLS s investigational caspase inhibitors, including GS 9450 which is being evaluated in an ongoing Phase 2a clinical trial as a
potential treatment for chronic hepatitis C and for which we anticipate data by the end of 2008. Related to this collaboration, we paid a $20.0 million up-front license fee that we recorded in research and development (R D) expenses.

In the cardiovascular area, we plan to continue to enroll our two Phase 3 clinical studies for darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension and we expect
to complete enrollment in 2009. In addition, Letairis for PAH was approved in the United States in June, and our partner GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK), who has rights to ambrisentan in territories outside of the United States, received a positive
opinion from the European Committee for Human Medicinal Products for the treatment of PAH in February 2008. If approved, GSK will market ambrisentan under the name Volibris.          

In the respiratory area, we presented data from the second of the two pivotal studies of aztreonam lysine for inhalation, our inhaled antibiotic for the treatment
of patients with CF who have pulmonary infection with  P. aeruginosa.  Along with the NDA we filed with the FDA in November 2007, we plan to submit a marketing authorization application to the EMEA in the second quarter of 2008. Also in the
respiratory area, we completed a Phase 1a study in healthy volunteers for GS 9310/11, a proprietary formulation of the combination of tobramycin and fosfomycin for inhalation, and have begun enrolling patients in two Phase 1b clinical studies.
Additionally, in August 2007, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Parion Sciences, Inc. (Parion) to research, develop and commercialize certain epithelial sodium channel inhibitors for the treatment of pulmonary
diseases. In connection with this collaboration, we paid a $5.0 million up-front license fee which we recorded as R D expense and made a $5.0 million investment in Parion.            
   46   

Table of Contents  

   Taken together, these programs contributed to the increase in R D expenses in 2007 as compared to
2006, and we expect research and clinical activity in these areas will continue to increase R D expenses in 2008.      In addition to our
commercial and clinical efforts, we continued to expand our worldwide organization and infrastructure. In 2007, we integrated the sites acquired in our 2006 acquisitions of Corus Pharma, Inc. (Corus), Myogen and Raylo Chemicals Inc. In September
2007, we acquired and integrated Nycomed Limited, a Cork, Ireland based manufacturing and tableting operation. We transferred certain of our existing Dublin operations to this Nycomed facility in Cork and utilize this Cork facility for solid dose
tablet manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products and product packaging activities. As part of our strategy to better build, manage and expand our presence in new and existing markets internationally, we established new subsidiaries in
Turkey, Austria and Switzerland in 2007, and are in the process of establishing marketing subsidiaries in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. These initiatives, which we believe will help reduce our reliance on third-party
distributors, have also contributed to the increase in our selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses in 2007 as we continue to increase headcount and expand our marketing and promotional activities in these countries. We will continue
to see an increase in SG A expenses in 2008 as we continue to expand internationally and launch products in new territories, including Atripla in the European territories.      Our strong operating results which contributed to operating cash flows of $1.77 billion for 2007, helped fund our R D activities, our corporate
development opportunities, our worldwide infrastructure and capital requirements as well as our daily operating needs. Additionally, our strong cash position allowed us to repurchase $487.5 million of our common stock in 2007. These repurchases
completed the $1 billion stock repurchase program initiated in 2006 and allowed us to initiate a $3 billion stock repurchase program in October 2007. In addition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement under which our credit
facility was increased to $1.25 billion, thereby providing greater access to funds as future requirements arise.      In 2008, we plan to
further expand our international footprint, advance additional drug candidates into the clinic and launch Viread for hepatitis B and aztreonam lysine for inhalation for CF, if they are approved. Strengthening our relationships with our corporate
partners continues to be a priority, especially as we and BMS continue to launch Atripla in the European territories. Finally, we plan to continue to strengthen our worldwide infrastructure to better support our growing employee and customer base,
as well as to better facilitate our expanding manufacturing, research and development and commercial activities.       Critical Accounting Policies,
Estimates and Judgments       The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our Consolidated
Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, prepaid royalties, clinical trial accruals,
our tax provision and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results, however, may differ significantly from these estimates.      We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated
Financial Statements.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

    Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenues from product sales when there is persuasive evidence an
arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. We record estimated reductions to revenues for government rebates such as Medicaid reimbursements, customer
incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and expected returns of expired products. These estimates are deducted from gross product sales at the time such revenues are recognized. Of these reductions from gross product
sales, government rebates significantly impact our reported net product sales and are based upon certain estimates that require complex and significant judgment of management.       Government Rebates       We estimate
amounts payable by us to government-managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs for the reimbursement of portions of the retail price of prescriptions filled that are covered by
these programs. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us are recorded in other accrued liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers at a lower contractual
government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower price, which we record as allowances against accounts receivable. We estimate these sales allowances based on contractual terms,
historical utilization rates, any new information regarding changes in these programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and,
for U.S. product sales, the channel inventory data as obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, government rebates of $464.4 million, $272.2 million and $184.8
million, respectively, representing 12%, 9% and 9% of total gross product sales, respectively, were deducted from gross product sales. Based on the current information available to us, actual government rebates claimed for these periods have varied
by less than 3% from our estimates recorded in those periods. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had accrued government rebates of $115.5 million and $65.7 million, respectively, in other accrued liabilities and an allowance of $25.3 million
and $10.6 million, respectively, recorded against accounts receivable.      The following table summarizes the aggregate activity in these
accrued government rebates allowance and accrued liabilities accounts:       
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

    Allowance for Doubtful Accounts       We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on our analysis of several factors including,
but not limited to, contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by customer and geographic region and a review of the local economic environment
and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. If the financial condition of our customers or the economic environment in which they operate were to deteriorate, resulting in an inability to make payments, additional
allowances may be required. Our allowance for doubtful accounts balance as a percentage of total accounts receivable did not materially change from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007. We believe that the allowance for doubtful accounts
is adequate to cover anticipated losses under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the above factors, especially with respect to the government funding and reimbursement practices in the European market could materially
change these expectations and result in an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.       Inventories       We record write-downs in the value of our inventory based on our review of bad batches experienced during the manufacturing process as well as quality
control reviews of our inventory. We generally do not record inventory write-downs relating to estimated obsolescence or risk of competition primarily because the shelf life of our products is long. However, if our current assumptions about future
production or inventory levels, demand or competition were to change or if actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could negatively impact our product
gross margins and results of operations.       Prepaid Royalties       We capitalize royalties that we have prepaid at cost, specifically those related to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory University (Emory) for the HIV indication, based on the present value of the future
royalty obligation that we would expect to pay to Emory assuming certain expected future levels of our product sales incorporating emtricitabine. The present value of our future royalty obligation was derived using our weighted average cost of
capital. We review quarterly the expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down in the net recoverable value of our asset or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. Some potential
indicators of impairment include the launch of a significant product by a competitor, significant deviations in recognized product sales compared to forecast and product safety issues and recalls.      We amortize our prepaid royalties based on an effective royalty rate that we derive from forecasted HIV product sales incorporating emtricitabine. Our
product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon considering such factors as historical and expected future patient usage or uptake of our products, the introduction of complimentary or
combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, including the introduction of a competing product by us or one of our competitors into the same
HIV market as emtricitabine, we would prospectively update the royalty rate used to amortize our prepaid royalties which may increase future royalty expense. As of December 31, 2007, we had a prepaid royalty asset relating to the emtricitabine
royalties we paid to Emory of $306.7 million. Amortization expense relating to this prepaid royalty asset was $14.3 million, $15.1 million and $6.2 million, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.       Clinical Trial Accruals       We record accruals for
estimated clinical study costs. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third-party contract research organizations (CROs). These costs are a significant component of R D expenses. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we incurred CRO costs of $65.6
million, $30.2 million and $21.1 million, respectively. We  
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

accrue costs for clinical studies performed by CROs on a straight-line basis over the service periods specified in the contracts and adjust our estimates, if
required, based upon our on-going review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the CRO. We validate our accruals quarterly with our vendors and perform detailed reviews of the activities related to our significant contracts. Based
upon the results of these validation processes, we assess the appropriateness of our accruals and make any adjustments we deem necessary to ensure that our expenses reflect the actual effort incurred by the CROs.      Generally, a significant portion of the total clinical trial costs are associated with start up activities for the trial and patient enrollment. We
extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. As a result, CROs typically perform most of the total start-up activities for our trials, including document
preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training and program management. In general, these costs are typically 10% to 30% of the total CRO contract value. On an actual basis, this percentage range is
significantly wider as many of our contracts are either expanded or reduced in scope compared to the original budget. Start-up costs usually occur within a few months after the contract has been executed and are milestone or event-driven in nature.
     The remaining activities and related costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur ratably throughout the life of
the individual contract or study. Most contracts are negotiated as fixed per unit prices and can vary in length between three months for a single dose Phase 1 study and up to two years or more for a more complex Phase 3 clinical study. The average
length of contracts in 2007, 2006 and 2005 has been at the upper end of this range in order to provide long-term safety and efficacy data to support the commercial launches of Truvada, Viread, Atripla, Emtriva, Hepsera and Letairis. All of our
material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point of termination. Amounts paid in advance relating to
uncompleted services will be refunded if a contract is terminated. Some contracts may include additional termination payments that become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such additional termination payments are only recorded if it
becomes probable that a contract will be terminated. Through December 31, 2007, differences between actual and estimated activity levels for any particular study have not been material. However, if management does not receive complete and
accurate information from our vendors or underestimates activity levels associated with a study at a given point in time, we would have to record additional and potentially significant R D expenses in future periods.       Tax Provision       We estimate our income tax provision,
including deferred tax assets and liabilities, based on significant management judgment. We evaluate the realization of all or a portion of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax
assets to the amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. We consider future taxable income, ongoing tax planning strategies and our historical financial performance in assessing the need for a valuation allowance.      If we expect to realize deferred tax assets for which we have previously recorded a valuation allowance, we would reduce the valuation allowance in the
period in which such determination is first made. Such an adjustment was made in 2007 and 2005 when we determined that it was more likely than not that certain of our deferred tax assets would be realized, and therefore, we released the related
valuation allowance. This resulted in an income tax benefit of approximately $1.5 million and $8.2 million for 2007 and 2005, respectively.      Our future effective income tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, regulations or rates, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation, changes in
our international organization and changes in overall levels of income before tax.      In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), an interpretation of Statement of Financial Accounting  
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

Standards (SFAS) No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS 109). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in
an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.      On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and increased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $14.1 million with a corresponding charge to the opening balance of accumulated deficit, as permitted under FIN
48. In addition, we reclassified $68.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits from short-term income taxes payable and noncurrent deferred tax assets to long-term income taxes payable. As of the date of adoption, we had total federal, state and
foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $86.2 million recorded primarily in long-term income taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including accrued liabilities related to interest of $4.0 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits as
of January 1, 2007, $78.0 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we will continue to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized
tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      At December 31, 2007, we had total
federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $111.7 million, including interest of $8.3 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $103.5 million, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. With
respect to the unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For U.S. federal and California income tax
purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for all years from inception due to our utilization of net operating losses relating to prior years.      Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2003 and 2004 tax years, by the Franchise Tax Board of
California for the 2004 and 2005 tax years and by various other state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving
issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. While we believe our positions comply with applicable laws, we periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing
positions.      We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions based upon FIN 48. We do not believe any such items currently pending
will have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these items in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Prior to the adoption
of FIN 48, we recorded liabilities related to uncertain tax positions based upon SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies .       Stock-based
Compensation       In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123R), which requires
that all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. SFAS 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees  (APB 25) and amends SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows . On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method of adoption as permitted under SFAS 123R, which requires that
compensation expense be recorded for all nonvested stock options and other stock-based awards as of the beginning of the first quarter of adoption. In accordance with the modified prospective method, no prior period amounts were restated to reflect
the provisions of SFAS 123R.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

   Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123, we elected to follow
APB 25, and FASB Interpretation No. 44,  Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25 , in accounting for our employee stock-based plans. Under APB 25, if the exercise
price of our employee and director stock options was equal to or greater than the fair value of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense was recognized. However, as required by SFAS 123, the pro forma impact of expensing
the fair value of our stock options and employee stock purchase plan was disclosed in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123R, we refined our valuation assumptions and the methodologies used to derive those assumptions; however, we elected to continue using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The fair value of
stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R was calculated using the multiple option approach while the fair value of stock options granted beginning January 1, 2006 was calculated using the single option approach. Concurrent with
our adoption of SFAS 123R, we determined that a blend of historical volatility along with implied volatility for traded options on our stock would be a better measure of market conditions and expected volatility. Previously, we used historical stock
price volatility as it was the most reliable source of volatility data. We estimate the weighted-average expected life of our stock options based on historical cancellation and exercise data related to our stock options as well as the contractual
term and vesting terms of the awards. We record stock-based compensation expense using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for nonvested stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R consistent with the expense attribution
approach used in our historical SFAS 123 disclosures and using a straight-line expense attribution approach for stock options granted after the adoption of SFAS 123R. We currently believe that the straight-line expense attribution approach better
reflects the level of service to be provided over the vesting period of our awards. Stock-based compensation expense related to stock options is recognized net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate forfeitures based on our historical experience. As
a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, we will only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in additional paid-in-capital (APIC) if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have
been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction through the Consolidated Statements of Operations rather than through
APIC.      During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recognized stock-based compensation expense of $184.6 million and $133.8
million, respectively, in operating expenses, and we capitalized $9.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively, into inventory. As of December 31, 2007, we had unrecognized stock-based compensation of $389.2 million related to nonvested stock
options, which we expect to expense over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.8 years.      Management has discussed the development,
selection and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented above relating to them.       Results of Operations        Total Revenues       We had total revenues of $4.23 billion in 2007, $3.03 billion in 2006 and $2.03 billion in 2005. Included in total revenues were product sales, royalty
revenues and contract and other revenues.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

    Product Sales       Product sales for the last three years consisted of the following (in thousands):       
    Total product sales increased by 44% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to an increase in our
total product sales volume of $1.04 billion and a favorable foreign currency exchange impact of $97.9 million. Total product sales increased by 43% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to an increase in our total product sales volume of $760.5
million. A significant percentage of our product sales continued to be denominated in foreign currencies. We used forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in Euro. This
reduced, but did not eliminate, fluctuations in sales due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.       HIV Products       HIV product sales in 2007 increased by 48% compared to 2006 and by 52% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily driven by product sales volume growth.
     During 2006, the average selling prices of our HIV products increased compared to 2005, primarily driven by higher overall selling prices
of our HIV products as well as the transition of some patients in the United States from coverage under Medicaid to Medicare Part D which generally reimbursed at higher rates. We estimated the benefit to net product sales resulting from these
transitions was approximately $38 million for 2006.       

Truvada           Truvada sales
increased by 33% in 2007 compared to 2006 and by 110% in 2006 compared to 2005, in each case, primarily driven by strong sales volume growth in Europe as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange environment in 2007. Truvada sales accounted for
51%, 56% and 41% of our total HIV product sales for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.       

Atripla           Atripla sales
increased by 339% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to the first full year of Atripla sales in 2007 as well as the continued strong uptake of Atripla in the United States. We consolidate 100% of Atripla product sales because we are the primary
beneficiary of our joint venture with BMS in the United States. The efavirenz portion of these Atripla sales was approximately $334.3 million and $76.0 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Atripla was approved for sale in the United States in
July 2006 and in the European Union in December 2007. Atripla sales accounted for 29% of our total HIV product sales in 2007. Sales of Atripla in the European Union were not significant in 2007.       

Viread           Viread sales
decreased by 11% in 2007 compared to 2006 and by 11% in 2006 compared to 2005, in each case, primarily due to lower sales volume in the United States and Europe driven by the impact of  
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

patients switching from a Viread-containing regimen to one containing Truvada and/or Atripla in countries where Truvada and/or Atripla is available,
partially offset by sales volume increases in Latin America as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange environment in 2007. The Viread sales decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was also partially offset by a favorable foreign currency exchange
environment.       

Emtriva           Emtriva sales
decreased by 13% in 2007 compared to 2006 and 23% in 2006 compared to 2005. The decreases in both years were primarily due to overall sales volume decreases driven by the impact of patients switching from an Emtriva-containing regimen to one
containing Truvada and/or Atripla in countries where these products are available.       Hepsera       Hepsera sales increased by 31% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily driven by sales volume growth across all major geographical regions where the product
is sold, as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange environment. Hepsera sales increased by 24% in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily driven by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. In 2006, Hepsera sales volume also increased with
respect to our sales of Hepsera to GSK. We sell Hepsera to GSK at our manufacturing cost in connection with GSK s distribution activities in Asia and collect a royalty from GSK upon the sale of Hepsera to customers which we record as royalty
revenues.       AmBisome       Sales of AmBisome increased 18% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to sales volume growth in Europe as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange impact. Sales of AmBisome increased one percent in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily
due to sales volume growth in some regions, partially offset by lower pricing in most regions. AmBisome product sales in the United States relate solely to our sales of AmBisome to Astellas Pharma Inc. which are recorded at our manufacturing cost.
     In 2008, we expect total product sales to continue to grow as we continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts.       Royalty Revenues       The following table summarizes the
period over period changes in our royalty revenues (in thousands):       
    Our most significant source of royalty revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was from sales of Tamiflu
by Roche.      Royalty revenues for 2007 were $468.2 million, an increase of 12% compared to 2006, and were $416.5 million for 2006, an
increase of 112% compared to 2005. The increases in both comparative periods were primarily driven by the recognition of Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $414.5 million and $364.6 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increases in Tamiflu
royalties for both comparative periods were due to the higher Tamiflu sales recorded by Roche, including sales related to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. The increase in Tamiflu royalties for 2006 compared to 2005 was also due to the
elimination of a contractual cost of goods adjustment resulting from the dispute resolution in November 2005 that had historically reduced the amount of Tamiflu royalties recognized by us prior to November 2005. We recognize royalties on
Tamiflu sales by Roche in the quarter following the quarter in which it is sold.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

   In November 2005, we resolved our dispute with Roche relating to our 1996 development and license
agreement and agreed to terminate the related arbitration pending between Roche and us. Related to the dispute resolution, Roche paid us $80.7 million. We recognized this payment as royalty revenue in 2005. The payment consisted of $18.2 million
relating to disputed royalties from 2001 to 2003, $11.8 million relating to the reimbursement of the 2004 contractual cost of goods adjustment that had previously reduced our earned royalties and $50.7 million relating to the updating of royalties
payable to us for the first nine months of 2005 based on the 2005 then-current royalty rates instead of the prior year s effective royalty rate.      Roche reported in January 2008 that it expects a significant decrease in Tamiflu sales in 2008 compared to 2007; therefore, we expect our royalty revenues for 2008 to be significantly lower compared to 2007.
      Cost of Goods Sold and Product Gross Margin       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our product sales (in thousands), cost of goods sold (in thousands) and product gross margin:       

    Our product gross margin for 2007 was 79%, compared to 83% for 2006, primarily due to product mix
changes, especially as Atripla, which has a lower product gross margin, comprised a larger proportion of our product sales in 2007. Our product gross margin for 2006 was 83%, compared to 86% for 2005. The lower gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005
was primarily due to the launch of Atripla in the United States, $15.8 million in write-downs of inventory for our Gilead Access Program to its estimated net realizable value, as well as product mix changes as patients continued to switch from
Viread, a higher margin product, to Truvada and/or Atripla. The lower gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 was partially offset by the lower effective royalty rate resulting from our July 2005 emtricitabine royalty buyout discussed below, lower
active pharmaceutical ingredients costs and the higher average selling prices of our HIV products in the United States.      Atripla product
sales decreased our product gross margin, without a corresponding impact to our product gross profit. As the primary beneficiary of our joint venture with BMS in the United States, we consolidate 100% of Atripla product sales but only benefit from
the product gross margin on the Truvada portion of Atripla. The efavirenz portion of Atripla product sales carries a zero product gross profit and gross margin since the joint venture purchases efavirenz from BMS at BMS s average net selling
price of efavirenz in the United States.      Prior to July 2005, we paid royalties to Emory on worldwide net sales of product containing
emtricitabine. In July 2005, we and Royalty Pharma purchased 65% and 35%, respectively, of the royalty interest owned by Emory in exchange for the elimination of the royalty obligation. As a result of the purchase, we capitalized $341.3 million in
prepaid royalties, representing our 65% share of the $525.0 million purchase price. In the third quarter of 2005, we began to amortize this prepaid royalty to cost of goods sold over the remaining life of the underlying patent based on an effective
royalty rate derived from our forecasted sales of products containing emtricitabine. We record royalties to Royalty Pharma based on actual emtricitabine net sales relative to Royalty Pharma s 35% ownership interest in the underlying Emory
royalty interest.      We expect our product gross margin in 2008 to be lower compared to 2007, primarily due to a higher mix of Atripla
product sales, which include the efavirenz portion of Atripla product sales at zero product gross profit, partially offset by product gross margin improvements driven by lower active pharmaceutical ingredients costs.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

    Research and Development Expenses       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in the major components of our R D expenses over the last three years (in thousands):       
    R D expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and
stock-based compensation, clinical studies performed by CROs, materials and supplies, licenses and fees and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities related costs. Our R D activities are separated into three main
categories: research, clinical development and pharmaceutical development. Research costs typically consist of preclinical and toxicology costs. Clinical development costs include costs for Phase 1, 2, 3 and 4 clinical trials. Pharmaceutical
development expenses consist of costs for product formulation and chemical analysis.      R D expenses in 2007 increased by $207.2 million
compared to 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $65.2 million due largely to higher headcount, increased clinical study expenses of $58.6 million and increased contract service expenses of $19.6 million relating to
clinical, product development and research activities in our cardiovascular programs. In addition, we paid a $20.0 million up-front license fee to LGLS and a $13.5 million license-related fee to PARI GmbH (PARI) in 2007, both of which we expensed as
there was no future alternative uses for these technologies.      R D expenses in 2006 increased by $106.1 million compared to 2005,
primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $73.9 million due largely to higher headcount, which included stock-based compensation expense of $52.2 million from our adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, as well as
increased contract service and clinical study expenses of $50.1 million relating to clinical, product development and research activities in our HIV and hepatitis programs and the respiratory and cardiovascular programs assumed in our acquisitions
of Myogen and Corus. These higher expenses were partially offset by lower milestone payments made to Japan Tobacco, Inc. (Japan Tobacco) in 2006 compared to 2005 related to the licensing and development of elvitegravir, our lead integrase inhibitor
candidate also known as GS 9137, as well as a $15.0 million payment to Emory in 2005 in connection with the amendment of our license agreement with Emory related to our obligation to develop emtricitabine for the hepatitis B indication.   
  In general, significant collaboration payments, like those made to LGLS, PARI, Japan Tobacco and Emory, can cause our R D expenses to fluctuate
period over period.      In 2008, we expect R D expenses to increase over 2007 levels due to increased spending on our internal and
collaborative R D efforts relating to the progress of our product candidates into more advanced clinical studies as well as continuation of our clinical trials related to elvitegravir for HIV, darusentan for resistant hypertension and Viread for
HBV, and the initiation of the Phase 4 program for Letairis.       Selling, General and Administrative Expenses       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our SG A expenses over the last three years (in thousands):       
       
   56   

Table of Contents  

   SG A expenses for 2007 increased by $132.1 million compared to 2006. The increase was primarily due
to an increase in compensation and benefits expenses of $79.6 million due largely to higher headcount, as well as an increase in marketing and promotional expenses of $20.0 million in the antiviral and cardiovascular areas, including those related
to our launch of Letairis for the treatment of PAH.      SG A expenses for 2006 increased by $192.4 million compared to 2005. Higher
expenses were primarily driven by higher headcount which increased compensation and benefits by $92.0 million, including stock-based compensation expense of $70.8 million from our adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, increased expenses of
$54.3 million in contract services and promotional programs relating to our business growth, business development activities, preparation for the launch of Atripla in the United States and a $7.9 million write-off of certain capital assets related
to renovations at our corporate headquarter campus.      In 2008, we expect SG A expenses to increase primarily due to higher costs to be
incurred on administrative activities and sales and marketing efforts to support our business growth, as well as costs associated with anticipated launches of Atripla in the European Union, Viread for HBV in both the United States and European
Union, and aztreonam lysine for inhalation for CF in the United States.       Purchased In-process Research and Development Expenses       In connection with our acquisitions of Myogen and Corus in 2006, we recorded purchased in-process research and development (IPR D) expenses of $2.06
billion and $335.6 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006.      The purchased IPR D expense for Myogen
represented the estimated fair value of Myogen s incomplete R D programs that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition. A
summary of these programs at the acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes in status of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value (in millions)    
 
  Ambrisentan  
      
  An orally active, non-sulfonamide, propanoic acid-class, endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) for the treatment of PAH.  
      
  Phase 3 clinical trials were completed prior to the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in December 2006 and, in June 2007, the FDA approved Letairis (ambrisentan) for the treatment
of PAH in the United States. Additionally, in March 2007, the EMEA validated the marketing authorization application for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, filed by our collaboration partner, GSK. In February 2008, ambrisentan received a positive
opinion from the European Committee for Human Medicinal Products for the treatment of PAH and will be marketed under the name Volibris by GSK upon approval.  
      
  $  
  1,413.7   

Darusentan  
      
  An orally active ETA-selective ERA for the treatment of resistant hypertension.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical development as of the acquisition date and the date of this filing.  
      
  $  
  644.5   
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

   The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach, which
discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 14%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Myogen s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted average cost of capital for companies with Myogen s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. We compensated for the differing phases of
development of ambrisentan and darusentan by probability-adjusting our estimation of the expected future cash flows associated with each program. We then determined at that time the present value of the expected future cash flows using the discount
rate of 14%. The projected cash flows from the ambrisentan and darusentan programs were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the programs considering their stages of development; the time and
resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related product candidates; the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound
such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.      For the purpose of estimating the fair value of the ambrisentan program, we estimated that the program was approximately 78% complete as of the acquisition date, based on estimated time and cost to complete, as Phase
3 clinical trials had been completed. As of the acquisition date, we estimated that we would incur future R D costs of approximately $35 million to $45 million from the date of acquisition through and including the year when commercialization
was expected to occur. Material net cash inflows were estimated to begin in 2009 for ambrisentan, assuming the necessary regulatory approvals would be received and the product would be successfully commercialized by that date.      For the purpose of estimating the fair value of the darusentan program, we estimated that the program was approximately 35% complete as of the
acquisition date, based on estimated time and cost to complete, and remaining efforts would include the completion of Phase 3 clinical development as well as preparing for and filing an NDA with the FDA. As of the acquisition date, we estimated that
we would incur future R D costs of approximately $130 million to $140 million from the date of acquisition through and including the year when commercialization was expected to occur. Material net cash inflows were estimated to begin in 2012 for
darusentan, assuming the necessary regulatory approvals would be received and the product would be successfully commercialized by that date.      The remaining efforts for completing the darusentan IPR D program primarily consist of clinical trials, the cost, length and success of which are extremely difficult to predict, and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. Numerous
risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials and the risk of failing to obtain FDA and other
regulatory body approvals. Feedback from regulatory authorities or results from clinical trials might require modifications to or delays in later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. We cannot be certain that darusentan for
the treatment of resistant hypertension will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Future discussions with regulatory agencies will
determine the amount of data needed and timelines for review, which may differ materially from current projections. Darusentan may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of
darusentan if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be
adversely impacted. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of this project will materialize as estimated. For these reasons, among others, actual
results may vary significantly from estimated results.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

   The purchased IPR D expense for Corus represented the estimated fair value of Corus s incomplete
inhaled aztreonam lysine for CF R D program that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition. A description of this program at the
acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes in status of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value (in millions)    
 
  Inhaled aztreonam lysine for CF  
      
  Aztreonam formulation for inhalation to be used against Gram-negative bacteria that cause lung infections in patients with CF.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical trials as of the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in November 2007 and have been granted a target review date of September 2008.  
      
  $  
  335.6   
    The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach,
which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 16%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Corus s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted average cost of capital for companies with Corus s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. The projected cash flows from the aztreonam lysine for
inhalation program were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the program considering its stage of development; the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related
product candidate; the life of the potential commercialized product and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks related to
the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets. Corus s two other early-stage candidates were not included in the valuation of purchased IPR D because they were early-stage projects that did not have
identifiable revenues and expenses associated with them.      For the purpose of estimating the fair value of the aztreonam program, we
estimated that the program was approximately 71% complete as of the acquisition date, based on estimated time and cost to complete, and remaining efforts would include the completion of Phase 3 clinical development as well as preparing for and
filing an NDA with the FDA. As of the acquisition date, we estimated that we would incur future R D costs of approximately $30 million to $35 million from the date of acquisition through and including the year when commercialization was expected
to occur. Material net cash inflows were estimated to begin in 2009 for the aztreonam program, assuming the necessary regulatory approvals would be received and the product would be successfully commercialized by that date.      The remaining efforts for completing Corus s IPR D program primarily consist of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. Failing to obtain FDA
and other regulatory body approvals is a risk that could prevent completion of development. Feedback from regulatory authorities might require modifications to or delays in later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. We cannot
be certain that aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of CF will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Aztreonam lysine
for inhalation may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of aztreonam lysine for inhalation if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other
opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the
above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of the project will materialize as estimated. For these reasons, among others, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    Interest and Other Income, Net       We recorded interest and other income, net, of $109.8 million, $134.6 million and $49.2 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily attributable to the lower
average cash and investment balances over 2006, as well as the write-down of $7.0 million and $1.8 million relating to the other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the asset-backed commercial paper of
a structured investment vehicle, respectively. The increase in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to the higher average cash and investment balances over 2005.       Interest Expense       In April 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior
notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) in a private placement pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2011 Notes and
the 2013 Notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625%, respectively. Debt issuance costs of $23.8 million in connection with the issuance of the Notes were recorded in other noncurrent assets and are being amortized to
interest expense on a straight-line basis over the contractual terms of the Notes.      We incurred interest expense of $13.1 million, $20.4
million and $0.4 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in interest expense in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily attributable to our repayment during the first quarter of 2007 of all remaining amounts due under our term
loan which we entered into in December 2005. The increase in interest expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest on the term loan and the interest on our 2011 and 2013 Notes.       Minority Interest       The minority interest on our
Consolidated Financial Statements primarily reflects BMS s interest in the operating results of our joint venture with BMS in the United States The joint venture was formed to develop and commercialize Atripla in the United States. As the
primary beneficiary of the joint venture as determined under FASB Interpretation No. 46R (As Amended),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities , we consolidate the operations of the joint venture in our Consolidated Financial
Statements.       Provision for Income Taxes       Our provision for income taxes was $655.0 million, $551.8 million and $347.9 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 effective tax rate of 28.9% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to state
taxes, offset by tax credits and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States.      Included in our operating income in 2006 were pre-tax charges of $335.6 million and $2.06 billion for the IPR D expenses associated with our Corus and Myogen acquisitions, respectively. We did not record any
income tax benefit related to the purchased IPR D expenses as such amounts are non-deductible. The 2006 effective tax rate of (86.5)% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to our federal tax non-deductible purchased
IPR D expenses and state taxes, offset by tax credits and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States.      The 2005 effective tax rate of 29.9% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due generally to state taxes offset by the recognition of
previously unbenefitted net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, and the one-time benefit for qualifying dividends
under the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA).      On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA allowed for a deduction of
85% of certain qualified foreign earnings that were repatriated, as defined in the AJCA. We elected to apply this provision to qualifying earnings that were repatriated in 2005. The earnings repatriation resulted in a one-time tax provision benefit
of approximately $25.1 million which we recognized in 2005.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006.      On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and increased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $14.1 million with a
corresponding charge to the opening balance of accumulated deficit, as permitted under FIN 48. In addition, we reclassified $68.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits from short-term income taxes payable and noncurrent deferred tax assets to
long-term income taxes payable. As of the date of adoption, we had total federal, state, and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $86.2 million recorded primarily in long-term income taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including accrued
liabilities related to interest of $4.0 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $78.0 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we will
continue to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      As of December 31, 2007, we had total federal, state, and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $111.7 million, including interest of $8.3 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $103.5 million, if
recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. With respect to the unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the
respective taxing authorities.       Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our working capital, and our cash flow activity as of the end of, and for each of, the last three years (in thousands):   
   
     Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities       Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.72 billion at December 31, 2007, an increase of $1.33 billion or 96% from
December 31, 2006. The increase of $1.33 billion was primarily attributable to:       
     
    These increases were partially offset by:       

our repurchase of $487.5 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs;          

our repayment of all remaining amounts due under our term loan of $99.0 million; and          

capital expenditures of $76.5 million relating to the expansion of our facilities to accommodate our growth.            
   61   

Table of Contents  

   Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.39 billion at December 31, 2006, a
decrease of 40% from December 31, 2005. The decrease of $921.5 million in 2006 was primarily due to:       

net cash paid of $2.74 billion for the acquisitions of Myogen, Raylo and Corus; and          

$201.0 million paid toward the principal outstanding under our term loan which we entered into in 2005.         These decreases were partially offset by:       

net proceeds of $587.6 million from the issuance of the Notes and related transactions in 2006; and          
     Working Capital       Working capital at December 31,
2007 was $2.29 billion compared to $1.66 billion at December 31, 2006. Significant factors that resulted in an increase in 2007 working capital were:       

$235.1 million increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities due primarily to cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from
issuances of stock under our employee stock plans, which were partially offset by our repurchase of our common stock and our repayment of the term loan and capital spending;          

$215.1 million increase in prepaid taxes related to intercompany profits between Gilead and our joint venture; and          
    Working capital at December 31, 2006 was $1.66 billion compared to $2.63 billion at December 31, 2005. Significant factors that resulted in the
decrease in 2006 working capital were:       

$1.37 billion decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities, primarily due to our funding of significant acquisition activities in 2006,
as well as a decrease in our marketable securities portfolio and a decrease resulting from the classification of certain of our marketable securities to long-term securities; and          

$296.1 million increase in accounts payable primarily due to the launch of Atripla in July 2006 and the related purchases of efavirenz from BMS at BMS s
approximate market value of efavirenz in order for the joint venture to build inventory levels to supply increasing Atripla demand.         These working capital decreases were partially offset by:       

$347.2 million increase in inventories, primarily due to the increase in Atripla inventory which included efavirenz purchased from BMS at BMS s approximate
market value of efavirenz; and          

$213.2 million increase in accounts receivable, primarily due to increased sales in 2006 and the lower collections of receivables in certain European countries
where collections traditionally have been slower.          Cash Provided by Operating Activities       Cash provided by operating activities of $1.77 billion in 2007 was comprised primarily of $1.62 billion in net income which was adjusted for non-cash
items such as $184.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $133.1 million of deferred income taxes and $110.7 million of tax benefits related to employee stock plans and $76.3 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises. This
was partially offset by a $236.0 million net cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   Cash provided by operating activities of $1.22 billion in 2006 was comprised primarily of $1.19 billion
in net loss which was adjusted for non-cash items such as our $2.39 billion purchased IPR D expense, stock-based compensation expense of $133.8 million and $127.6 million of tax benefits related to employee stock plans and $95.3 million of
excess tax benefits from stock option exercises. This was partially offset by a $225.1 million net cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities.      Cash provided by operating activities of $705.6 million in 2005 was comprised primarily of $813.9 million of net income which was adjusted for non-cash items such as $168.5 million of tax benefits from employee stock
plans. This was partially offset by a $251.1 million net cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, which included $341.3 million of prepaid royalties that we made to Emory related to emtricitabine.       Cash Used in Investing Activities       Cash used in
investing activities in 2007 primarily related to purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, capital expenditures and our acquisition of Nycomed Limited. Cash used in investing activities in 2006 primarily related to
purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, our acquisitions of Myogen, Raylo Chemicals Inc. (Raylo) and Corus, as well as capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities in 2005 primarily related to purchases, sales
and maturities of available-for-sale securities.      We used $1.30 billion of cash for investing activities in 2007 compared to $1.74 billion
in 2006, a decrease of $436.9 million. The decrease was primarily due to our acquisitions of Myogen, Raylo and Corus for a total of $2.74 billion in 2006, as well as more cash used in the purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities
activities during 2007 compared to 2006.      We used $1.74 billion of cash for investing activities during 2006, compared to $682.5 million in
2005, an increase of $1.06 billion. The increase was primarily due to our acquisitions of Myogen, Raylo and Corus for a total of $2.74 billion in 2006 as discussed above, as well as more cash provided from the purchases, sales and maturities of
marketable securities activities during 2006 compared to 2005.      Capital expenditures made in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related primarily to the
expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, upgrades to our facilities, as well as spending on computer and laboratory equipment to accommodate our business growth. In 2007, capital expenditures also included the construction of a new building at
our Foster City, California headquarters. In 2006, capital expenditures also included the purchase of two buildings that we previously leased as well as construction costs of the new building at our Foster City, California headquarters. As of
December 31, 2007, we had capital expenditure commitments of $17.7 million, and we expect to fulfill such commitments from funds generated from our operating cash flows.       Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities       Cash used in financing activities in 2007 was $267.4
million, primarily resulting from the $487.5 million used to repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $99.0 million used to pay off all remaining amounts due on our term loan, partially offset by the proceeds from issuance of
stock under employee stock plans of $243.3 million, as well as $76.3 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises.      Cash
provided by financing activities in 2006 was $649.3 million, primarily resulting from the $587.6 million of net proceeds generated from the issuance of our Notes and related transactions. In addition, we received proceeds from the issuance of stock
under employee stock plans of $167.9 million, as well as $95.3 million of excess tax benefits from employee stock option exercises. These cash inflows were partially offset by $201.0 million paid towards principal on our term loan during 2006.
     Cash provided by financing activities in 2005 primarily related to proceeds from our $300.0 million term loan and proceeds from the
issuance of stock under employee stock plans of $143.3 million.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

    Other Information       In December 2007, we, along with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation (GBIC), entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which superseded the existing revolving credit
agreement, with a syndicate of banks to increase the credit facility to $1.25 billion. The amended and restated credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit. Under the terms of the amended and restated
credit agreement, we may borrow initially up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. Loans under the amended and restated credit agreement bear interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 20 basis points to 32
basis points or (ii) the base rate, as defined in the amended and restated credit agreement. We can prepay any outstanding borrowings at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium, and any outstanding interest or principal would be
due and payable in December 2012. In connection with the amended and restated credit agreement, we entered into a parent guaranty agreement under which we guaranteed the obligations of GBIC under the amended and restated credit agreement. We expect
to use the proceeds of any loans under the amended and restated credit agreement for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had a $1.5 million letter of credit outstanding under the amended and
restated credit agreement.      In August 2007, as a result of a review of the terms under our existing corporate aircraft leases and upon
consideration of the various alternatives available to us upon their expiration, we entered into agreements to purchase three aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010 and 2013. The aggregate purchase price under the purchase agreements was
$94.2 million. As of December 31, 2007, we had made deposits totaling $4.7 million which has been recorded in other noncurrent assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future deposits due under the terms of the purchase agreements are as
follows: $2.6 million in 2008, $21.2 million in 2009, $28.5 million in 2010, $4.1 million in 2011, $20.7 million in 2012, and $12.4 million in 2013. We have the option to terminate the purchase agreements, subject to a maximum payment of 7.5% of the
fully-equipped price of the aircraft.      We believe that our existing capital resources, supplemented by cash generated from our operations,
will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the following:       

the commercial performance of our current and future products;          

the progress and scope of our R D efforts, including preclinical studies and clinical trials;          

the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews;          

the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities;          

administrative expenses;          

the possibility of acquiring additional manufacturing capabilities or office facilities;          

the possibility of acquiring other companies or new products;          

the establishment of additional collaborative relationships with other companies; and          

costs associated with the defense, settlement and adverse results of litigation and government investigations.         We may in the future require additional funding, which could be in the form of proceeds from equity or debt financings. If such funding is required, we
cannot assure that it will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are currently material or reasonably likely to be material to our consolidated financial position
or results of operations.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

    Contractual Obligations       Our contractual obligations consist of debt obligations, capital and operating leases, as well as purchase obligations primarily in the form of capital commitments, purchase obligations for active pharmaceutical
ingredients and inventory-related items and clinical trials contracts. The following table summarizes our significant enforceable and legally binding obligations, future commitments and obligations related to all contracts that we are likely to
continue regardless of the fact that they are cancelable as of December 31, 2007 (in thousands):       

(2)  
  At December 31, 2007, we had firm capital project commitments of approximately $17.7 million primarily relating to the expansion of certain aspects of our manufacturing
capabilities and the upgrading of our facilities.     

(3)  
  At December 31, 2007, we had firm purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory-related activities. The amounts related to active
pharmaceutical ingredients only represent minimum purchase requirements. Actual purchases are expected to significantly exceed these amounts.     

(4)  
  At December 31, 2007, we had several clinical studies in various clinical trial phases. Our most significant clinical trial expenditures are to CROs. Although most of our
contracts with CROs are cancelable, we generally have not cancelled such contracts. These amounts reflect commitments based on existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or termination of, existing contracts and anticipated
or potential new contracts.     

(5)  
  In addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing and development programs. Payments under these
agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have
not been recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and have not been included in the table above.     

(6)  
  With respect to our total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $115.1 million as of December 31, 2007, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the
period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Such amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and have not been included in the table above.
        Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any
noncontrolling interest in the acquiree in a business combination. SFAS 141R also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business combination, and requires the acquirer to disclose information it needs to evaluate and
understand the financial effect of the business combination. As SFAS 141R is effective for business combination transactions for which the acquisition date is on or after December 15, 2008, we do not know whether SFAS 141R will have a material
impact to our prospective Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

   In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial
Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the
parent, the amount of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parent s ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is
deconsolidated. SFAS 160 also establishes reporting requirements that identify and distinguish between the interest of the parent and the interest of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2008. We are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of SFAS 160 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK          Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the United States, Canada and
Ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the United States, including Europe and Australia. As a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak
economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. Our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which are
the Euro, the British pound and the Australian dollar. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against these
currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies
in which we transact significant amounts of business.      A significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies.
We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on cash flows from our sales denominated in foreign currencies. We also hedge a portion of
our accounts receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a sale is recorded and the date that cash is collected. In general, the market risks of
these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged.      In recent years, foreign currency exchange
fluctuations have primarily had a positive impact to product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the foreign currency fluctuations have been moderated by our hedge program.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the notional amounts, average currency exchange rates and fair values of
our open foreign exchange forward and option contracts at December 31, 2007. All contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. Average rates are stated in terms of the amount of U.S. dollars per foreign currency. Fair values represent
estimated settlement amounts at December 31, 2007 (notional amounts and fair values in U.S. dollars in thousands):       
    The total notional amount of $1.61 billion and total fair value relating to our liabilities of
$11.5 million on our open foreign exchange forward and option contracts at December 31, 2007 compares with a total notional amount of $1.12 billion and a total fair value relating to our liabilities of $7.1 million on our open foreign exchange
forward contracts at December 31, 2006.       Interest Rate Risk       Our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable-rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. With respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment
policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as
follows:       

safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk;          

liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and          

competitive after-tax rate of return.            
   67   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our
interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at December 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands):       
     
     Credit Risk       In February 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for auction rate securities whose underlying assets are comprised of student loans. As of December 31, 2007, we held approximately $157.7 million of auction rate securities
within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities of which $145.1 million were securities whose underlying assets were comprised of student loans. Our auction rate securities comprised approximately 5% of our total cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2007. Most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated AAA, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment
policy. We believe that given our cash and marketable securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we are able to hold the securities until there is a recovery in the
auction market and the related securities, which may be at final maturity.      Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2007 was
$795.1 million, compared to $609.3 million at December 31, 2006. The growth in our accounts receivable balances was primarily due to higher product sales of our HIV products in the United States and Europe. In certain countries where
payments are typically slow, primarily Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain, our aggregated accounts receivable balance was significant. In most cases, these slow payment practices reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our
customers. This, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. Sales to customers in countries that tend to be relatively slow-paying have in the past increased, and in the future may further increase, the average length
of time that accounts receivable are outstanding. At December 31, 2007, our past due accounts receivable for Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain totaled $286.3 million, of which $147.6 million was more than 120 days past due. To date,
we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable, and we believe that substantially all of our accounts receivable balances are collectible. We perform credit evaluations of our customers 
financial condition and generally have not required collateral.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The
financial statements required by this item are set forth beginning at page 78 of this report and are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         (a) Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures      An evaluation as of December 31, 2007 was carried out under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our  disclosure controls and procedures,  which are defined under Securities and
Exchange (SEC) rules as controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
(Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective.      (b) Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting      Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the internal control system are met.      Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.      Our
independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has audited our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have issued a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. The report on the audit of internal control over financial reporting appears below.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Gilead Sciences, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Gilead Sciences, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2007 consolidated financial statements of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and our report dated February 25, 2008
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 25, 2008         
   70   

Table of Contents  

   (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting      Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2007, and has concluded that there was no change during such quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not applicable.       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         The information required by this Item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated by reference to the sections of our Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with our
2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement) under the headings  Nominees,   Board Committees and Meetings ,  Executive Officers,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance.       Our written Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors and employees, including our executive officers, including
without limitation our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics is available on our website at  http://www.gilead.com  in
the Investors section under  Corporate Governance.  Changes to or waivers of the Code of Ethics will be disclosed on the same website. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment
to, or waiver of, any provision of the Code of Ethics by disclosing such information on the same website.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information required by
this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of our Proxy Statement under the headings  Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,   Compensation Committee Report, 
and  Compensation of Non-Employee Board Members.        

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement under the headings  Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.        

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement under the headings  Nominees  and  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. 

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The
information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement under the heading  Principal Accountant Fees and Services.          
   71   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

ITEM   
   15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:      (1)
Index list to Consolidated Financial Statements:       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
      
  79   

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  80   

Consolidated Statements of Operations    
      
  81   

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  82   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  84   
    (2) Schedule II is included on page 128 of this report. All other schedules
are omitted because they are not required or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.      (3) Exhibits.      The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference:       

Exhibit Footnote    
      
   Exhibit Number   
      
     Description of Document     
 
    (1)   
      
    2.1  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, among Registrant, Gryphon Acquisition Sub, Inc., Corus Pharma, Inc. and Rodney A. Ferguson, Ph.D., as Chairman of and on behalf of the Stockholder Representative
Committee, dated April 12, 2006   

+(2)   
      
    2.2  
      
  Stock Purchase Agreement, among Registrant, Degussa AG, Laporte Nederland BV and Raylo Chemicals Inc., dated June 6, 2006   

(3)   
      
    2.3  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, among Registrant, Mustang Merger Sub, Inc. and Myogen, Inc., dated October 1, 2006   

(4)   
      
    3.1  
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended   

(5)   
      
    3.2  
      
  Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant   

(6)   
      
    3.3  
      
  Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(5)   
      
    3.4  
      
  Amendment to Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(7)   
      
    3.5  
      
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended and restated on May 8, 2007   

4.1  
      
  Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1, Exhibit 3.2, Exhibit 3.3, Exhibit 3.4 and Exhibit 3.5   

(8)   
      
    4.2  
      
  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC, dated October 21, 1999   

(9)   
      
    4.3  
      
  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated
October 29, 2003   

(10)   
      
    4.4  
      
  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated May 11,
2006   
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

73   

Table of Contents  

74   

Table of Contents  

75   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(2)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(3)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(5)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(6)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(7)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(8)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 22, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(9)  
  Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(11)  
  Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 25, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(12)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-55680), as amended, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(13)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(15)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(16)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(17)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.     
     
   76   

Table of Contents  

(18)  
  Filed as an exhibit to NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

(19)  
  Filed as an exhibit to NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

(20)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(21)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(23)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

(24)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 19, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

(25)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(26)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(27)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(28)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(29)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(30)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(33)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Myogen, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(34)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 7, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(35)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K first filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(36)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K also filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(37)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 5, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.         

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

**  
  This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by reference into any
filing of Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such
filing.     

+  
  Certain confidential portions of this Exhibit were omitted by means of marking such portions with an asterisk (the Mark). This Exhibit has been filed separately with the Secretary
of the SEC without the Mark pursuant to Registrant s Application Requesting Confidential Treatment under Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.           
   77   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005        CONTENTS        

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  79   

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  80   

Consolidated Statements of Operations    
      
  81   

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  82   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  84   
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Gilead Sciences, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Gilead Sciences, Inc. at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information
set forth therein.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2006 Gilead Sciences, Inc. changed its method of
accounting for stock-based compensation in accordance with guidance provided in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment.       We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Gilead Sciences, Inc. s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 25, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP
     Palo Alto, California      February 25, 2008         
   79   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Balance Sheets        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Operations        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

1.   
   ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a
biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster
City, California, we have marketing operations in North America, Europe and Australia. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life-threatening diseases to market. In 2006, we expanded our research,
development and commercial focus to include respiratory and cardiovascular diseases through the acquisition of Myogen, Inc. (Myogen) and Corus Pharma, Inc. (Corus). Currently, we market Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate),
Atripla (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; Hepsera (adefovir dipivoxil)
for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection; AmBisome (amphotericin B liposome for injection) for the treatment of fungal infection, Letairis (ambrisentan) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), Vistide (cidofovir
injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and Flolan (epoprostenol sodium) for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffman-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu (oseltamivir
phosphate) for the treatment of influenza, under a royalty paying collaborative agreement with us. We manufacture Macugen (pegaptamib sodium for injection) under our manufacturing agreement with OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OSI), who sells Macugen for
the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration, under a royalty paying collaborative agreement with us.       Basis of Presentation
      The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Gilead, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and our joint ventures
with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS), for which we are the primary beneficiary as determined under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities 
(FIN 46R). We record a minority interest in our Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect BMS s interest in the joint ventures. Significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated. The Consolidated Financial Statements also include
the results of companies acquired by us from the date of each acquisition.      On June 22, 2007, we completed a two-for-one stock split
in the form of a stock dividend to stockholders of record as of May 24, 2007. Accordingly, all share and per share amounts for all periods presented in these Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto have been adjusted retroactively,
where applicable, to reflect this stock split.       Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments       The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, prepaid royalties, clinical trial
accruals, our tax provision and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenue from product sales when there is persuasive evidence an arrangement exists, delivery to
the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Upon recognition of revenue from product sales, provisions are made for government rebates, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt
payment, certain distributor fees and estimated future returns of products that may expire, as appropriate.       Items Deducted from Gross Product Sales
       Government Rebates       We estimate amounts payable by us to government-managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates, any new information
regarding changes in these programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and, for our U.S. product sales, the channel inventory
data as obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us are recorded in other accrued liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified
programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers at a lower contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower contractual government price, which we record as
allowances against accounts receivable.       Cash Discounts       We estimate cash discounts based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates and our expectations regarding future utilization rates.   
   Distributor Fees       Under our
inventory management agreements with our significant U.S. wholesalers, we pay the wholesalers a fee primarily for the compliance of certain contractually-determined covenants such as the maintenance of agreed-upon inventory levels. These distributor
fees are based on a contractually-determined fixed percentage of sales.       Product Returns       We do not provide our customers with a general right of product return but permit returns if the product is damaged or defective when received by the
customer, or in the case of product sold in the Unites States, if the product has expired. We will accept product returns in the United States that have expired for one year after their expiration. Our estimates for expected returns of expired
products are based primarily on an on-going analysis of historical return patterns.       Royalty Revenues       Royalty revenue from sales of AmBisome is recognized in the month following the month in which the corresponding sales occur. Royalty revenues from sales
of our other products is generally recognized when received, which is generally in the quarter following the quarter in which the corresponding sales occur.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Contract and Other Revenues       Contract revenue for research and development (R D) is recorded as performance occurs and the earnings process is completed based on the performance requirements of the contract. Nonrefundable contract fees for
which no further performance obligations exist, and where there is no continuing involvement by Gilead, are recognized on the earlier of when the payments are received or when collection is reasonably assured.      Revenue from non-refundable up-front license fees and milestone payments where we continue to have obligations, such as through a development
collaboration or an obligation to supply product, is recognized as performance occurs and our obligations are completed. In accordance with the specific terms of Gilead s obligations under these types of arrangements, revenue is recognized as
the obligation is fulfilled or ratably over the development or manufacturing period. Revenue associated with substantive at-risk milestones is recognized based upon the achievement of the milestones as defined in the respective agreements. Advance
payments received in excess of amounts earned are classified as deferred revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Contract and other
revenues include net revenue from product distribution services, which is recognized when there is persuasive evidence an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably
assured. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent , we record product distribution services revenue, net of the supply price paid to the
manufacturer/licensor, distribution fees paid to specialty pharmacies and allowances for product returns, cash discounts and government rebates, in contract and other revenues in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and handling
costs incurred for inventory purchases and product shipments are recorded in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Research
and Development Expenses       Major components of R D expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based
compensation, clinical studies performed by contract research organizations (CROs), materials and supplies, licenses and fees and overhead allocations consisting of various administrative and facilities related costs. Our R D activities are also
separated into three main categories: research, clinical development and pharmaceutical development. Research costs typically consist of preclinical and toxicology costs. Clinical development costs include costs for Phase 1, 2, 3 and 4 clinical
trials. Pharmaceutical development costs consist of expenses incurred in connection with product formulation and chemical analysis.      We
charge R D costs, including clinical study costs, to expense when incurred, consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 2,  Accounting for Research and Development Costs . Clinical study costs are a
significant component of R D expenses. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third-party CROs. We accrue costs for clinical studies performed by CROs on a straight-line basis over the service periods specified in the contracts and adjust
our estimates, if required, based upon our on-going review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the CRO. We monitor levels of performance under each significant contract including the extent of patient enrollment and other
activities through communications with our CROs, and we adjust our estimates, if required, on a quarterly basis so that our expenses reflect the actual effort expended by each CRO.      All of our material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and
certain non-cancelable expense incurred at any point of termination.  
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Amounts paid in advance related to incomplete services will be refunded if a contract is terminated. Some contracts include additional termination payments
that become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such additional termination payments are only recorded if a contract is terminated.       Advertising Expenses       We expense the costs of advertising, including promotional expenses, as incurred. Advertising expenses
were $81.1 million in 2007, $67.3 million in 2006 and $50.5 million in 2005.       Earnings (Loss) Per Share       Basic earnings (loss) per share is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted
earnings (loss) per share is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our common stock outstanding and other dilutive securities outstanding during the period. The potential dilutive shares of our common stock resulting from the
assumed exercise of outstanding stock options and equivalents and the assumed exercise of the warrants relating to the convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes) and the convertible senior notes due in 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the
Notes) are determined under the treasury stock method.      The Notes are considered to be Instrument C securities as defined by EITF Issue
No. 90-19,  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion  (EITF 90-19); therefore, only the conversion spread relating to the Notes is included in our diluted earnings per share calculation. The potential
dilutive shares of our common stock resulting from the assumed settlement of the conversion spread of the Notes are determined under the method set forth in EITF 90-19. Under such method, the settlement of the conversion spread of the Notes has a
dilutive effect when the average share price of our common stock during the period exceeds $38.75 and $38.10 for the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes, respectively. The average share price of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2007
exceeded the conversion prices of the Notes while average share price of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2006 did not exceed either of the respective conversion prices of the Notes.      Warrants to purchase 33.8 million and 23.3 million weighted-average shares of our common stock were outstanding during the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the warrants  exercise prices were greater than the average market price of our common stock during these
periods; therefore, their effect was antidilutive.      Stock options to purchase approximately 15.5 million and 1.6 million
weighted-average shares of our common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2005, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the options  exercise
prices were greater than the average market price of our common stock during this period; therefore, their effect was antidilutive. Due to our net loss for 2006, approximately 38.4 million weighted-average number of outstanding stock options
and other common stock equivalents were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because their inclusion would have been antidilutive.         
   87   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table is a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of
basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share (in thousands):       
     Stock-Based Compensation       Prior to 2006, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  (SFAS 123), as amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition
and Disclosure , we elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  (APB 25), and FASB Interpretation No. 44,  Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock
Compensation an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25 , in accounting for our employee stock-based plans. Under APB 25, if the exercise price of our employee and director stock options was equal to or greater than the fair value of the
underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense was recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      On
January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123R), which requires that all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, be recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations based on their fair values. SFAS 123R also requires the benefit of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as a financing cash flow,
rather than as an operating cash flow. We applied the modified prospective method, one of the adoption methods permitted under SFAS 123R, which requires that compensation expense be recorded for the vesting of all nonvested stock options and other
stock-based awards at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS 123R. In accordance with the modified prospective method, no prior period amounts were restated to reflect our adoption of SFAS 123R. In addition, we calculated our pool of
excess tax benefits available within additional paid-in capital (APIC) in accordance with the provisions SFAS 123R.       Cash and Cash Equivalents
      We consider highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and an original maturity of three months or less on
the purchase date to be cash equivalents. We may enter into overnight repurchase agreements (repos) under which we purchase securities with an obligation to resell them the following day. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are recorded
at face value and reported as cash and cash equivalents. Under our investment policy, we may enter into repos with major banks and authorized dealers provided that such repos are collateralized by U.S. government securities with a fair value of at
least 102% of the  
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 fair value of securities sold to us. Other eligible instruments under our investment policy that are included in cash equivalents include commercial paper,
money market funds and other bank obligations.       Marketable and Nonmarketable Securities       We determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities, which consist primarily of debt securities and which include auction rate
securities and variable rate demand obligations, at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. All of our marketable securities are considered as available-for-sale and carried at estimated fair values and
reported in either cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities or long-term marketable securities. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of
stockholders  equity. Interest and other income, net, includes interest, dividends, amortization of purchase premiums and discounts, realized gains and losses on sales of securities and other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of
securities, if any. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. We regularly review all of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Our review includes the consideration of the cause of the
impairment including the creditworthiness of the security issuers, the number of securities in an unrealized loss position, as well as the severity and duration of the unrealized losses. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an
investment is below our accounting basis and this decline is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the security we hold and record a loss in the amount of such decline.      As a result of entering into collaborations, from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We record these nonmarketable securities
at cost in other noncurrent assets, less any amounts for other-than-temporary impairment. We regularly review our investments for indicators of impairment. Investments in nonmarketable securities are not material for the periods presented.
      Concentrations of Risk       We are subject
to credit risk from our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities. By policy, we limit amounts invested in such securities by duration, industry group, investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. We
are not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk from these financial instruments. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity
of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return.      We are also subject to credit risk
from our accounts receivable related to product sales. The majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the United States and Europe. In certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily Greece, Italy, Portugal
and Spain, our aggregated accounts receivable balances are significant. In most cases, slow payment practices in these countries reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. This, in turn, may increase the financial risk
related to certain of our customers. Sales to customers in countries that tend to be relatively slow paying have in the past increased, and in the future may further increase, the average length of time that accounts receivable are outstanding. At
December 31, 2007, our past due accounts receivable for Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain totaled $286.3 million, of which $147.6 million was more than 120 days past due. At December 31, 2006, our past due accounts receivable for the same
countries totaled $234.3 million, of which $124.5 million was more than 120 days past due. To date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable and believe that all of our past due accounts
receivable, net of allowances, as reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, are collectible. We perform credit evaluations of our customers  financial condition and generally have not required collateral.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Certain of the raw materials that we utilize in our operations are obtained through single suppliers.
Many of the raw materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. Since the suppliers of key components and raw materials must be named in the new drug application (NDA) filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
for a product, significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship our products or to supply any of our drug candidates
for clinical trials.       Accounts Receivable       Trade accounts receivable are recorded net of allowances for wholesaler chargebacks for government rebates, cash discounts for prompt payment, doubtful accounts and sales returns. Estimates for wholesaler chargebacks for government rebates,
cash discounts and sales returns are based on contractual terms, historical trends and our expectations regarding the utilization rates for these programs. Estimates for our allowance for doubtful accounts is determined based on existing contractual
obligations, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by customer and geographic region and a review of the local economic environment and its potential impact on
government funding and reimbursement practices. Historically, the amounts of uncollectible accounts receivable that have been written off have been insignificant and consistent with management s expectations.       Inventories       Inventories are recorded at the lower of
cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We periodically review the composition of inventory in order to identify obsolete, slow-moving or otherwise unsaleable items. If unsaleable items are observed and there are no
alternate uses for the inventory, we will record a write-down to net realizable value in the period that the impairment is first recognized.       Prepaid
Royalties       Prepaid royalties are capitalized at cost which initially is equivalent to the present value of the future royalty obligation
that we would expect to pay to the licensor on expected levels of product sales incorporating the related technology. We review quarterly our expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down in the net
recoverable value or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. We amortize our prepaid royalties to cost of goods sold over the remaining life of the underlying patent based on an effective royalty rate derived from forecasted future
product sales incorporating the related technology. We review our effective royalty rate at least annually and prospectively adjust the effective rate based on any significant new facts or circumstances that may arise from our review.       Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and
equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives in years are as
follows:       

Description    
      
   Estimated Useful Life    
 
    Buildings and improvements   
      
  20-35   
 
    Laboratory and manufacturing equipment   
      
  4-10   
 
    Office and computer equipment   
      
  3-7   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of useful life or lease term   
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Office and computer equipment includes capitalized software. All of our capitalized software is
purchased; we have no internally developed software. As of December 31, 2007, we had unamortized capitalized software costs of $12.7 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and we amortized $5.4 million of capitalized software costs in 2007.
Leasehold improvements and capitalized leased equipment are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the asset s useful life. Amortization of capitalized leased equipment is included in depreciation expense. Capitalized interest, if any,
on construction in-progress is included in property, plant and equipment. Interest of $0.4 million and $0.5 million was capitalized in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and no significant interest was capitalized in 2005.       Goodwill and Intangible Assets       Goodwill represents
the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. In accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS 142) ,  goodwill is not amortized but is
required to be tested annually for impairment. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of
the goodwill below its carrying amount, in accordance with SFAS 142.      Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their
estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The carrying value of long-lived assets is reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of
facts or circumstances both internally and externally that may suggest impairment. Specific potential indicators of impairment include a significant decrease in the fair value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an
asset is used or a significant physical change in an asset, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that affects the value of an asset, an adverse action or assessment by the FDA or another regulator, an accumulation
of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset and operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing
losses associated with an income-producing asset.      Should there be an indication of impairment, we will test for recoverability by
comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset or asset group and its eventual disposition to the carrying amount of the asset or asset group. In estimating these future cash flows, assets and
liabilities are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows generated by other such groups. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the
asset or asset group, an impairment loss, measured as the excess of the carrying value of the asset or asset group over its estimated fair value, will be recognized. The cash flow estimates used in such calculations are based on management s
best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the time.       Foreign Currency Translation, Transactions and Contracts  
     Adjustments resulting from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars are excluded from the
determination of net income (loss) and are accumulated in a separate component of stockholders  equity. Net foreign exchange transaction gains or losses are included in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations. Net transaction gains totaled $11.4 million, $17.3 million and $2.0 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   We hedge certain of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding trade accounts receivable
and forecasted product sales with foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange option contracts. In general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. Our exposure
to credit risk from these contracts is a function of changes in interest and currency exchange rates and, therefore, varies over time. We limit the risk that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform by transacting only with major
banks. We also limit risk of loss by entering into contracts that provide for net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is limited to the amount of any unrecognized and unrealized gains on
outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair value) at the date of default. We do not enter into speculative foreign currency transactions. We do not hedge our net investment in any of our foreign subsidiaries.   
   Fair Value of Financial Instruments       Our financial
instruments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, certain other noncurrent assets, foreign exchange forward and option contracts, accounts payable, long-term debt and other long-term
obligations. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities (see Note 6), and foreign exchange contracts that hedge accounts receivable (see above and Note 2) are reported at their respective fair values on the balance sheet. Foreign exchange
contracts that hedge forecasted sales are recorded at fair value, net of the related deferred gain or loss, resulting in a reported net balance of zero. The remaining financial instruments are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts
that approximate current fair values.       Income Taxes       Our income tax provision is computed under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using
enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or
regulations. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for
stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R D spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in
which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have a
negative impact on our net income.      On January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  (FIN 48), an interpretation of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS 109). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance
with SFAS 109 by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. As a result of our adoption of FIN 48, we increased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $14.1 million with a
corresponding charge to the opening balance of accumulated deficit, as permitted under FIN 48. In addition, we reclassified $68.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits from short-term income taxes payable and noncurrent deferred tax assets to
long-term income taxes payable. As of the date of adoption, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $86.2 million recorded primarily in long-term income  
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including accrued liabilities related to interest of $4.0 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits,
$78.0 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we will continue to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of
our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R establishes principles and
requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree in a business combination. SFAS 141R also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business
combination, and requires the acquirer to disclose information it needs to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. As SFAS 141R is effective for business combination transactions for which the acquisition date is on
or after December 15, 2008, we do not know whether SFAS 141R will have a material impact to our prospective Consolidated Financial Statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS 160). SFAS 160
establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a
parent s ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS 160 also establishes additional reporting requirements that identify and distinguish between the interest of
the parent and the interest of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of SFAS 160 will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.       

2.   
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS         All derivatives
are recognized as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value, based on quoted market prices. We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge against changes in the fair value of certain monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in a non-functional currency. We record changes in the fair value of such instruments in interest and other income, net, as these derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under SFAS Nos. 133 and 138,  Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , (collectively referred to as SFAS 133).      We enter into foreign currency forward and
option contracts, all with maturities of 18 months or less, to hedge a percentage of our future cash flows related to forecasted product sales in foreign currencies. These derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign
currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified. Hedges related to forecasted foreign currency product sales designated and documented at the inception of the respective hedge are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133
and evaluated for effectiveness quarterly. At the inception of a hedging relationship and on a quarterly basis, we perform a regression analysis using the change in cash flow of the underlying contract and regressing it against the change in cash
flow of the hedge instrument (excluding time value) to assess effectiveness of the hedging relationship. We assess hedge effectiveness on a retrospective basis using a dollar-offset approach monthly. We exclude time value from our effectiveness
testing and recognize changes in the time value of the hedge in interest and other income, net. For 2007, 2006 and 2005 we excluded gains of $4.0 million, $8.6 million and $2.6 million from our assessment of hedge effectiveness, respectively. The
effective component of the hedge is recorded in  
       
   93   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as an unrealized gain or loss on the hedging instrument (see Note 15). When the hedged forecasted transactions
occur, the hedges are de-designated and the unrealized gains and losses are reclassified into earnings at that time. Substantially all values reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2007 will be reclassified to
earnings within 12 months. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had net unrealized losses of $27.2 million and $15.4 million, respectively, on our open foreign exchange contracts. Gains or losses on cash flow hedges recorded in product sales
increased (decreased) product sales by $(44.0) million, $(15.6) million and $0.6 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.      Any
residual changes in fair value of the instruments (including those resulting from the cancellation or de-designation of hedge contracts) or other ineffectiveness are recognized immediately in interest and other income, net. The impact of the hedge
ineffectiveness during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was not significant to our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      We had notional amounts on
foreign exchange forward and option contracts outstanding of $1.61 billion at December 31, 2007 and $1.12 billion at December 31, 2006. We had a liability fair value of $11.5 million and $7.1 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.       

3.   
   ACQUISITIONS          Nycomed Limited       On September 6, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Nycomed Limited (Nycomed), a wholly-owned Irish subsidiary of Germany-based pharmaceutical
company, Nycomed GmbH. The Nycomed facility, located in Cork, Ireland, conducted manufacturing and tableting operations for Nycomed GmbH. We transferred certain of our operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to this facility and utilize the
site primarily for solid dose tablet manufacturing of existing and future products, as well as product packaging activities. The Nycomed acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141,  Business
Combinations  (SFAS 141). The results of operations of Nycomed since the completion of the acquisition on September 6, 2007 have been included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.      The aggregate purchase price for all of Nycomed s common stock was $48.3 million, which consisted of cash paid at closing of $46.6 million,
estimated direct transaction costs of $1.0 million and employee-related severance costs of $0.7 million. Employee-related severance costs were included as part of the purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the
acquisition transaction in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination  (EITF 95-3) .  The purchase price was allocated primarily to property, plant and equipment
of $48.5 million with the remaining balance allocated to net working capital at September 6, 2007.      We do not consider the Nycomed
acquisition to be a material business combination under SFAS 141 and therefore have not disclosed the pro forma results of operations as required by SFAS 141 for material business combinations.      In connection with the transfer of certain operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to the Cork facility, we finalized our personnel plan with
respect to Dublin employees and met the criteria for recognizing one-time termination benefits under SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities , in the fourth quarter of 2007. Estimated termination
benefits totaled approximately $3.2 million as of December 31, 2007. We are also providing relocation and retention benefits totaling approximately $0.6 million and $1.0 million, respectively, to employees targeted for relocation to the Cork
facility or being retained to provide service to us for a certain period of time.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Myogen, Inc.       On November 17, 2006, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Myogen via a cash tender offer, under the terms of an agreement and plan of merger entered into on
October 1, 2006. Myogen was a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Westminster, Colorado that focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders.
Myogen had two product candidates in late-stage clinical development: ambrisentan for the treatment of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and darusentan for the treatment of patients with resistant hypertension. The acquisition
provided us with an opportunity to expand into the cardiovascular therapeutic area.      The Myogen acquisition was accounted for as a business
combination in accordance with SFAS 141. The results of operations of Myogen since November 17, 2006 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      The aggregate purchase price for all of Myogen s common stock was $2.42 billion, and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $2.34 billion; the fair value of vested stock options assumed of $85.5
million; direct transaction costs of $13.1 million, which consisted primarily of investment banking fees; employee-related severance costs of $4.0 million; and a reduction to income taxes payable of $23.6 million which resulted primarily from the
exercise in 2007 of stock options assumed from Myogen that were vested as of the acquisition date. This reduction to income taxes payable resulted in a decrease to the aggregate purchase price. Employee-related severance costs were included as part
of the purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction in accordance with EITF 95-3 .        In accordance with the merger agreement that we entered into with Myogen, the conversion value of each stock option assumed was determined based on the exercise price of each option to purchase shares of common stock of Myogen and the
average closing price of our common stock for the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding (but not including) the tender offer acceptance date of November 14, 2006, which was $34.02 per share. The estimated fair value of stock
options assumed was determined using an average price of $34.02 per share, which approximated the price that would have resulted from averaging the closing price of our common stock from two trading days before to two trading days after the
acceptance date in accordance with EITF Issue No. 99-12,  Determination of the Measurement Date for the Market Price of Acquirer Securities Issued in a Purchase Business Combination . The fair value of stock options assumed was calculated
using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions: expected life ranging from 1.2 to 3.7 years, risk-free interest rate ranging from 4.7% to 5.0%, expected volatility ranging from 30.4% to 35.5% and no dividend yield. The fair
value of the as-converted Gilead stock options did not exceed the fair value of the Myogen stock options immediately prior to the exchange.      Approximately 2.8 million of the 5.8 million as-converted shares subject to outstanding Myogen stock options were fully vested as of the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of vested options of $85.5 million was included in
the purchase price. The estimated fair value of the unvested options of $59.5 million was not included in the purchase price and is being recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the remaining future vesting period of the options.
        
   95   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation at November 17, 2006 (in
thousands):       
    The $24.0 million of deferred revenue reflected the fair value of deferred revenue for which we
have legal performance obligations, in accordance with EITF Issue No. 01-3,  Accounting in a Business Combination for Deferred Revenue of an Acquiree . The $180.8 million of deferred tax assets was primarily related to federal net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations. We concluded that, based on the standard set forth in SFAS 109, it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits from these deferred tax assets. Because we
elected to treat the Myogen acquisition as an asset acquisition for California state tax purposes, the purchased in-process research and development (IPR D) and goodwill resulting from the acquisition are deductible for California state income
tax purposes, although such amounts are not deductible for federal income tax purposes.      The estimated fair value of purchased IPR D of
$2.06 billion was determined by our management. The purchased IPR D represents Myogen s incomplete R D programs that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date and,
therefore, was expensed upon acquisition within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. A summary of these programs at the acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes in status of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value     (in
millions)    
 
    Ambrisentan   
      
  An orally active, non-sulfonamide, propanoic acid-class, endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) for the treatment of PAH.  
      
  Phase 3 clinical trials were completed prior to the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in December 2006 and, in June 2007, the FDA approved Letairis (ambrisentan) for the
treatment of PAH in the United States. Additionally, in March 2007, the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) validated the marketing authorization application for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, filed by our collaboration partner,
GlaxoSmithKline, Inc. (GSK). In February 2008, ambrisentan received a positive opinion from the European Committee for Human Medicinal Products for the treatment of PAH and will be marketed under the name Volibris by GSK upon approval.  
      
  $1,413.7   

Darusentan   
      
  An orally active ETA-selective ERA for the treatment of resistant hypertension.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical development as of the acquisition date and is currently still in Phase 3 clinical development.  
      
  $644.5   
       
   96   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach, which
discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 14%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Myogen s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted average cost of capital for companies with Myogen s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. We compensated for the differing phases of
development of ambrisentan and darusentan by probability-adjusting our estimation of the expected future cash flows associated with each program. We then determined at that time the present value of the expected future cash flows using the discount
rate of 14%. The projected cash flows from the ambrisentan and darusentan programs were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the programs considering their stages of development; the time and
resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related product candidates; the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound
such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.      The remaining efforts for completing the darusentan IPR D program primarily consist of clinical trials, the cost, length and success of which are extremely difficult to predict, and obtaining necessary regulatory
approvals. Numerous risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials and the risk of failing to
obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. Feedback from regulatory authorities or results from clinical trials might require modifications to or delays in later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. We cannot be certain
that darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Future discussions with
regulatory agencies will determine the amount of data needed and timelines for review, which may differ materially from current projections. Darusentan may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to
discontinue development of darusentan if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future
revenue growth may be adversely impacted. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of this project will materialize as estimated. For these reasons, among
others, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.      The excess of the purchase price over the fair value amounts
assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was $70.9 million, which represented the goodwill amount resulting from the Myogen acquisition. We recorded the goodwill as a noncurrent asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the
acquisition date. In accordance with SFAS 142 ,  goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair
value of the goodwill below its carrying amount.       Raylo Chemicals Inc.       On November 3, 2006, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Raylo Chemicals Inc. (Raylo), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Germany-based specialty chemicals company Degussa
AG. Located in Edmonton, Canada, Raylo s operations encompassed custom manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients and advanced intermediates for the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries. We utilize the Raylo site for process
research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, the manufacture of our active pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and for our chemical development activities to improve existing commercial
manufacturing processes.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Raylo acquisition was accounted for as a business combination in accordance with SFAS 141. The
results of operations of Raylo since November 3, 2006 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      The aggregate
purchase price for all of Raylo s common stock was $133.4 million, and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $132.4 million, direct transaction costs of $0.8 million and employee-related severance costs of $0.1 million.
Employee-related severance costs were included as part of the purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction in accordance with EITF 95-3. These costs have been fully paid.      The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation at November 3, 2006 (in thousands):       
    The $67.2 million of net tangible assets included $8.2 million of cash, $47.7 million of property,
plant and equipment and $14.0 million of other tangible assets, less assumed liabilities of $2.7 million. The estimated fair value of $8.5 million associated with the good manufacturing practices (GMP) qualification of Raylo s facilities was
determined by our management. This value was recorded as an intangible asset to be amortized on a straight-line basis over three years, which is the estimated useful life of the asset determined by management based on the amount of time over which
we would derive benefit before making substantial upgrades or revisions to the acquired manufacturing practices. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the accumulated amortization on this asset was $3.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively. The
amortization expense recognized in 2007 and 2006 was $2.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively. The estimated aggregate amortization expense to be recognized in future years is approximately $2.8 million for 2008 and $2.4 million for 2009.
     The excess of the purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was $57.7 million,
which represented the goodwill amount resulting from the Raylo acquisition. We recorded the goodwill as a noncurrent asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is tested for impairment
on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the goodwill below its carrying amount. Because we elected to treat the Raylo
acquisition as an asset acquisition for federal and California state tax purposes, the goodwill resulting from the acquisition was deductible for both federal and California state income tax purposes.      Prior to the acquisition, Raylo was one of our long-standing contract manufacturers. We determined, in accordance with EITF Issue No. 04-1,
 Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination,  that there was no settlement of the pre-existing relationship as part of the business combination and that no value needed to be assigned to the
pre-existing relationship in the purchase price allocation summarized above. Raylo s assets as of the acquisition date included $2.0 million of trade receivables from us, which were eliminated in our Consolidated Balance Sheet upon completion
of the acquisition.       Corus Pharma, Inc.       On August 11, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Corus, a privately-held biopharmaceutical company based in Seattle, Washington. Corus was a development stage company that focused on the development and  
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 commercialization of novel drugs for respiratory and infectious diseases. Corus had one lead product candidate in late-stage clinical trials and two
early-stage product candidates. This acquisition provided us with an opportunity to expand into the respiratory therapeutic area as well as augment our pipeline.      The Corus acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination in accordance with the criteria outlined in EITF Issue No. 98-3,  Determining Whether a Nonmonetary
Transaction Involves Receipt of Productive Assets or of a Business  and SFAS 141. Corus was considered a development stage company because it had not commenced its planned principal operations. Additionally, it lacked all the necessary elements
of a business, including not having a completed product and, therefore, no ability to access customers. The results of operations of Corus since August 11, 2006 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      In April 2006, we purchased $25.0 million of Corus s Series C preferred stock, which represented approximately 15% of Corus s voting equity
interests at the time. In conjunction with the purchase of Series C preferred stock, we also entered into the agreement and plan of merger under which we had an option to acquire by merger the remaining outstanding shares of Corus. In July 2006, we
announced that we had agreed to exercise this option and concurrently entered into an agreement with Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis) whereby Novartis agreed to dismiss its litigation against Corus for a payment to be made by us to
Novartis. Since the claims made by Novartis directly implicated Corus s right to develop and commercialize its products, settling with Novartis was deemed appropriate to allow completion of the acquisition and to ensure claims by Novartis could
not impede our ability to further develop and commercialize Corus s product candidates. Without a settlement, the results of the ongoing trial at the time of settlement would have been uncertain for a sustained period following the closing due
to legal appeals and other potential proceedings. Upon completion of the acquisition, we included our investment in Corus s Series C preferred stock and the payment to Novartis as part of the acquisition purchase price.      The aggregate purchase price for all of the acquired shares was $415.5 million and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $363.6 million, the
fair value of vested stock options assumed of $7.4 million, direct transaction costs of $4.0 million and employee-related severance costs of $4.0 million. In addition, a holdback amount of $36.5 million was payable to Corus stockholders by us one
year after the closing of the merger, except to the extent utilized to pay claims made by us within the year. Because we had assessed that it was probable that we would pay out this holdback amount, we recorded the amount in other accrued
liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. We paid the holdback amount of $36.5 million in August 2007. Employee-related severance costs were included as part of the purchase price, as we established a workforce
reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction.      The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation at August 11,
2006 (in thousands):       
    The $7.2 million of net tangible assets included $8.5 million of cash, $4.3 million of investments
and $4.9 million of other tangible assets, less assumed liabilities of $10.5 million. The $1.6 million value assigned to the assembled workforce is being amortized over three years, which is the estimated useful life of the asset. The $71.2 million
of net deferred tax assets was primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit  
       
   99   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 carryforwards and certain state amortizations. We concluded that, based on the standard set forth in SFAS 109, it is more likely than not that we will
realize the benefits from these deferred tax assets. Because we elected to treat the Corus acquisition as an asset acquisition for California state tax purposes, the purchased IPR D resulting from the acquisition is deductible for California
state income tax purposes, although such amount is not deductible for federal income tax purposes.      The estimated fair value of purchased
IPR D and assembled workforce was determined by our management. The estimated fair value of purchased IPR D was greater than the purchase price paid; therefore, the amount that was allocated to purchased IPR D consisted of the net amount
remaining after allocating the purchase price to the net tangible assets, assembled workforce and net deferred tax assets. The purchased IPR D represented Corus s incomplete R D program that had not yet reached technological feasibility
and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. A summary of this program at the acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes in status
of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value     (in millions) 

Inhaled aztreonam lysine for cystic fibrosis (CF)  
      
  Aztreonam formulation for inhalation to be used against Gram-negative bacteria that cause lung infections in patients with CF.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical trials as of the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in November 2007 and have been granted a target review date of September 2008.  
      
  $  
  335.6   
    The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach,
which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 16%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Corus s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted average cost of capital for companies with Corus s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. The projected cash flows from the aztreonam lysine for
inhalation program were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the program considering its stage of development; the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related
product candidate; the life of the potential commercialized product and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks related to
the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets. Corus s two other early-stage candidates were not included in the valuation of purchased IPR D because they were early-stage projects that did not have
identifiable revenues and expenses associated with them.      The remaining efforts for completing Corus s IPR D program primarily
consist of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. Failing to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals is a risk that could prevent completion of development. Feedback from regulatory authorities might require modifications to or delays in
later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. We cannot be certain that aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of CF will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether
marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Aztreonam lysine for inhalation may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of aztreonam lysine for inhalation
if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted.
No assurance can be given that the  
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of the project will materialize as estimated. For these
reasons, among others, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.       

4.   
   ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE         In August 2006, we
completed the purchase of two additional buildings located on our Foster City, California campus for an aggregate purchase price of $29.3 million. The purchase price was allocated between land, buildings and land improvements based on their
estimated relative fair values determined by management, which were $13.7 million, $14.6 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The fair value of the buildings and land improvements are being depreciated over their remaining useful lives.

5.   
   ASSET DISPOSAL         In March 2006, we received local
city approval to proceed with the demolition of two of our buildings in Foster City, California, and to begin construction of a new facility. We included the charge associated with the write-off of these buildings, equal to their aggregate net book
value of $7.9 million, in SG A expenses.       

6.   
   AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES         The following is a
summary of available-for-sale securities recorded in cash equivalents or marketable securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Estimated fair values of available-for-sale securities are based on prices obtained from commercial pricing services
(in thousands):       
       
   101   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, other debt securities consisted primarily of money market
funds and auction rate securities.      The following table presents the classification of the available-for-sale securities on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):       
    At December 31, 2007, our portfolio of available-for-sale debt securities comprised $445.0
million of securities with a contractual maturity of less than one year and $1.27 billion of securities with a contractual maturity greater than one year but less than five years, $21.2 million of securities with a contractual maturity
of greater than five years but less than ten years, and $249.7 million of securities with a contractual maturity of greater than ten years. Securities with a contractual maturity of greater than ten years comprised asset-backed securities
(which included mortgage-backed securities) and auction-rate securities.      The following table presents certain information related to sales
of marketable securities (in thousands):       
    At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had the following available-for-sale debt securities that
were in a continuous unrealized loss position but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (in thousands):       
       
   102   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of December 31, 2007, the gross unrealized losses were caused by an increase in the
yield-to-maturity of the underlying securities, and approximately 14% of the total number of our investment positions was in unrealized loss positions. No significant facts or circumstances have arisen to indicate that there has been any
deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuers of our securities. Based on our review of these securities, including the assessment of the duration and severity of the related unrealized losses and our ability and intent to hold the
investments until maturity, we had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of December 31, 2007.      As a result of
our review of investments for other-than-temporary impairment, in December 2007, we recorded a charge of $8.8 million in interest and other income, net, to write-down the cost basis of our investments in the common stock of Achillion
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Achillion) and the asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) of a structured investment vehicle which were $7.0 million and $1.8 million, respectively. The other-than-temporary impairment for Achillion was based on the quoted
market price of Achillion common stock on the last trading day of December 2007 compared to our cost basis. Our assessment was based primarily on the observation that the quoted market value of the investment had been less than its carrying value
over three consecutive quarters (see Note 10). The other-than-temporary impairment for the ABCP was based on various market factors, including the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral of the ABCP. As of December 31, 2007, our
investment in the common stock of Achillion and the ABCP were $5.6 million and $5.2 million, respectively, which were recorded in long-term marketable securities and short-term marketable securities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.

7.   
   EUROPEAN HEADQUARTERS RELOCATION         In June 2005, we
announced that the commercial, medical and administrative groups of our European headquarters, based in Paris, France, would be relocated to the London area in the United Kingdom. The European headquarters for our regulatory, safety and information
technology groups was already located in the Cambridge area in the United Kingdom. We believed that this relocation would enable us to achieve efficiencies through the closer proximity of the groups as we continue to position the Company to compete
with the large pharmaceutical companies at a global level. Our French subsidiary continues to occupy our Paris facilities as we continue to maintain and expand our sales and marketing presence in France.      In the third quarter of 2005, when the relocation plans were finalized, we accrued a charge of $8.4 million, primarily consisting of employee severance
costs and termination benefits, which was included in SG A expenses. The majority of these severance costs and termination benefits have been paid, thereby reducing the relocation accrual that is included in accrued compensation and employee
benefits in our Consolidated Balance Sheets to an insignificant amount. Additional costs relating to the new headquarters in the United Kingdom, including recruitment costs, legal expenses, capital expenditures and other related costs have been
expensed as incurred. The significant relocation activities have been completed and the aggregate severance, relocation and recruiting costs resulting from the relocation of our European headquarters have totaled approximately $14 million.
        
   103   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

8.   
   INVENTORIES         Inventories are summarized as follows
(in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the joint venture formed by Gilead and BMS, which is
included in our Consolidated Financial Statements, held $296.2 million and $298.6 million in inventory, respectively, of efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient which it purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz
(see Note 10).      We established the Gilead Access Program in December 2002, pursuant to which we make Truvada and Viread available at
substantially reduced prices in more than 125 countries in the developing world. Based on our regular evaluation of forecasted sales, pricing and inventory shelf life in 2006, we concluded that we would not fully recover the full carrying value
associated with the inventory of Truvada and Viread for our Gilead Access Program. As a result, we recorded $15.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, in cost of goods sold, to write-down this inventory to its estimated net
realizable value.       

9.   
   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL (in thousands)          
       
   104   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

10.   
   COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTS         As a
result of entering into strategic collaborations from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We review our interests in our investee companies for consolidation and/or appropriate disclosure under the provisions of FIN
46R. As of December 31, 2007, we determined that certain of our investee companies are variable interest entities; however, other than with respect to our joint ventures with BMS, we are not the primary beneficiary and therefore do not
consolidate these investees.       Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        North America       In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS to develop and
commercialize a single tablet regimen containing our Truvada and BMS s Sustiva in the United States. The collaboration is structured as a joint venture and operates as a limited liability company, which we consolidate, named Bristol-Myers
Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. The ownership interests of the joint venture and thus the sharing of product revenue and costs reflect the respective economic interests of BMS and us and are based on the proportions of the net selling price
of Atripla attributable to Sustiva and Truvada. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of Sustiva, both BMS and our respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually.
     We share marketing and sales efforts with BMS and both parties are obligated to provide equivalent sales force efforts for a minimum
number of years. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax reporting and product distribution for the joint venture. Both parties provide their respective bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients to the joint venture at our
approximate market values. In July 2006, the joint venture received approval from the FDA to sell Atripla in the United States. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to
sell Atripla into Canada. In October 2007, the joint venture received approval from Health Canada to sell Atripla in Canada. As of December 31, 2007, the joint venture held Sustiva active pharmaceutical ingredient which it purchased from BMS at
BMS s estimated net selling price of Sustiva in the U.S. market. This amount is included in inventory on our Consolidated Balance Sheet (see Note 8).       Europe       In December 2007, Gilead Sciences Limited (GSL), one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries in
Ireland, and BMS entered into a collaboration arrangement to commercialize and distribute Atripla in the European Union, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein (the European Territory). The parties formed Tri-Supply Limited (Tri-Supply), a
limited liability company which we consolidate, to manufacture Atripla for distribution in Europe. Under this arrangement, Tri-Supply purchases efavirenz at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European Territory. We are
responsible for product distribution, inventory management and warehousing. Through our local subsidiaries, we will have primary responsibility for order fulfillment, collection of receivables, customer relations and handling of returns in all the
territories where we co-promote Atripla with BMS. We are also responsible for accounting, financial reporting and tax reporting for the collaboration. In December 2007, the European Commission approved Atripla for sale in the European Union. As of
December 31, 2007, Tri-Supply held efavirenz which it purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European Territory. This amount is included in inventory on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 8).
     The parties formed Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited, a limited liability company, to hold the marketing authorization for
Atripla in Europe. We have primary responsibility for regulatory activities, and  
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 we share marketing and sales efforts with BMS. In the major market countries, both parties have agreed to provide equivalent sales force efforts. Revenue and
cost sharing is based on the relative ratio of Truvada and efavirenz s respective net selling prices.       PARI GmbH       As a result of the acquisition of Corus in August 2006, we assumed all rights to the February 2002 development agreement between Corus and PARI GmbH
(PARI) for the development of aztreonam lysine for inhalation and development of an inhalation delivery device for this drug product. Under the terms of the agreement, we are obligated to pay PARI for services rendered, and
subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are obligated to pay certain milestone payments to PARI. In addition, we will make royalty payments based on net sales of aztreonam lysine for inhalation, if approved for
commercialization. The agreement also provided us the right to reduce royalty rates payable to PARI. In November 2007, we paid PARI $13.5 million to reduce the royalty rate under the agreement. As aztreonam lysine for inhalation has
not yet been approved for commercialization, we recorded this payment in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.       LG Life
Sciences, Ltd.       In November 2007, we entered into a license agreement with LG Life Sciences, Ltd. (LGLS) to develop and commercialize
certain caspase inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases. The agreement granted us commercialization rights to LGLS s caspase inhibitors, including LB84451 (now known as GS 9450). Under the terms of the agreement, our license is
worldwide, with the exception of Korea, China and India where LGLS has retained rights. LGLS also retains the right to develop and commercialize caspase inhibitors for ophthalmic and topical uses worldwide. In accordance with the terms of the
agreement, we paid a $20.0 million up-front license fee that was recorded as R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations as there is no future alternative use for this technology. The agreement also obligated us to fund a
collaborative research program for two years to identify other potential caspase inhibitor drug candidates. In addition, we are obligated to make additional milestone payments of up to $182.0 million upon the achievement of certain development,
regulatory and commercial objectives. We are also obligated to pay royalties on future net sales of products that are developed and approved in relation to this collaboration.       Parion Sciences, Inc.       In August 2007, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement
with Parion Sciences, Inc. (Parion) to research, develop and commercialize certain epithelial sodium channel inhibitors for the treatment of pulmonary diseases. The agreement granted us worldwide commercialization rights to P-680 (GS 9411), an
epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) inhibitor discovered by Parion, for the treatment of pulmonary diseases, including CF, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and non-CF bronchiectasis. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we paid a $5.0
million up-front license fee that was recorded as R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations as there is no future alternative use for this technology, and made a $5.0 million investment in Parion in the form of convertible debt,
which was recorded as other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under the collaboration agreement, we will lead all development and commercialization activities and provide funding of full time equivalents for certain research
activities. In addition, we are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of certain milestones and pay royalties on future net sales of products that are developed and approved in relation to this collaboration.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Roche       In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement (the 1996 Agreement) with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (together, Roche), to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral
influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the 1996 Agreement, Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its
obligation to pay us a percentage of the net revenues that Roche generates from Tamiflu sales, which, in turn, has been subject to reduction for certain defined manufacturing costs.      In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the 1996 Agreement with Roche. The amended agreement provided for the formation of
a joint manufacturing committee to review Roche s existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and its global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United
States and a joint supervisory committee to evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis in each case, consisting of representatives of Roche and us. Under the amended agreement, we also have the option to provide a
specialized sales force to supplement Roche s marketing efforts in the United States for Tamiflu.      The royalties payable to us on net
sales of Tamiflu sold by Roche remain the same under the amended agreement, which are as follows: (a) 14% of the first $200.0 million in worldwide net sales in a given calendar year; (b) 18% of the next $200.0 million in worldwide net
sales during the same calendar year; and (c) 22% of worldwide net sales in excess of $400.0 million during the same calendar year. The amended agreement revised the provision in the 1996 Agreement relating to the calculation of royalty
payments such that in any given calendar quarter Roche will pay royalties based on the actual royalty rates applicable to such quarter. In addition, under the amended agreement, royalties payable by Roche to us will no longer be subject to a cost of
goods sold adjustment that was provided in the 1996 Agreement. Further, Roche paid us $80.7 million that we recognized as royalty revenues in 2005, consisting of $18.2 million relating to disputed royalties from 2001 to 2003, $11.8 million relating
to the reimbursement of the cost of goods adjustment for 2004 and $50.7 million relating to the updating of royalties payable to us for the first nine months of 2005 based on the 2005 then-current royalty rates instead of the prior year s
effective royalty rate.      We recorded a total of $414.5 million, $364.6 million and $161.6 million of Tamiflu royalties in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively.       Emory University       In July 2005, we and Royalty Pharma purchased the royalty interest owned by Emory University (Emory) in emtricitabine for the HIV indication. Under the terms of the agreement, we and Royalty Pharma paid 65% and 35%, respectively, of the
total purchase price of $525.0 million to Emory in exchange for the elimination of the emtricitabine royalties due to Emory on worldwide net sales of product containing emtricitabine. As a result of this transaction, we capitalized as prepaid
royalties our 65% share of the $525.0 million purchase price, or $341.3 million. We amortize this prepaid royalty to cost of goods sold over the remaining life of the underlying patent based on an effective royalty rate derived from our forecasted
future product sales. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, $14.3 million, $15.1 million and $6.2 million were amortized to cost of goods sold, respectively. We record royalties to Royalty Pharma based on actual emtricitabine net sales relative to Royalty
Pharma s 35% ownership in the underlying Emory royalty interest. We paid royalties of $51.2 million, $29.8 million and $4.8 million to Royalty Pharma in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In July 2005, we made a payment of $15.0 million to Emory in connection with the amendment and
restatement of our existing license agreement with Emory, providing us with greater strategic flexibility as to the development of emtricitabine for the hepatitis B indication. We recorded this payment in R D expenses as we were not expecting
any significant related R D in the next several years.      Prior to July 2005, we paid royalties to Emory with respect to emtricitabine in
the HIV indication for the worldwide license acquired through our acquisition of Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Triangle). We paid royalties of $22.4 million in 2005 on net sales of emtricitabine.       Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and Rega Stichting       In 1991 and 1992, we entered into agreements with the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and
Rega Stichting (IOCB/REGA) relating to certain nucleotide compounds discovered at these two institutions. Under the agreements, we received the exclusive right to manufacture, use and sell these nucleotide compounds, and we are obligated to pay
IOCB/REGA a percentage of net revenues received from sales of products containing the patented compounds, subject to minimum royalty payments. The compounds covered by the original agreements include cidofovir (the active pharmaceutical ingredient
in Vistide), adefovir (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Hepsera) and tenofovir (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla).      In December 2000, the agreements with IOCB/REGA were amended to provide for a reduced royalty rate on future sales of products containing tenofovir
and adefovir, in return for an up-front payment from us of $11.0 million upon signing the agreement. This payment was recorded as a prepaid royalty and is classified in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The prepaid royalty is
being amortized to cost of goods sold over the expected commercial life of tenofovir and adefovir. Amortization of the $11.0 million payment began as of the product launch dates of Viread and Hepsera. As of December 31, 2007, $6.3 million
remained to be amortized.      We make quarterly payments to IOCB/REGA based on a percentage of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera and Vistide
net sales. In August 2004, IOCB/REGA agreed to waive their right to a royalty on sales of Truvada and Viread in the developing countries where we sell such products at substantially reduced prices under our Gilead Access Program and on sales of
Atripla distributed by Merck   Co., Inc. in developing countries. We paid royalties of $73.4 million, $51.4 million and $39.3 million to IOCB/REGA in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.       Japan Tobacco Inc.       In July 2003, we granted Japan
Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco) the right to commercializes Viread, Truvada and Emtriva in Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front license fee of $4.0 million and received additional payments upon achievement of certain
milestones. Japan Tobacco also pays us a royalty on net sales of these products in Japan. The up-front license fee has been recorded as deferred revenue and is being amortized into contract revenue over the period of our supply of products to Japan
Tobacco, which has approximately ten years remaining as of December 31, 2007. In both 2005 and 2004, we received $2.5 million each year in milestone payments from Japan Tobacco related to Japanese regulatory approval and marketing authorization
for Viread in 2004 and Emtriva and Truvada in 2005, which we are amortizing over the same remaining period as the up-front license fee.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In March 2005, Japan Tobacco granted us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a
novel HIV integrase inhibitor known as GS 9137, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco retained such rights. Under the terms of the agreement, we incurred an up-front license fee of $15.0 million which was included in
R D expenses in 2005 as there was no future alternative use for this technology. In March 2006, we recorded $5.0 million in R D expenses related to a milestone we incurred as a result of dosing the first patient in a Phase 2 clinical study.
We are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of other milestones as well as pay royalties based on any future product sales in the territories where we may market the drug.       Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       In November 2004,
Achillion granted us worldwide rights for the research, development and commercialization of certain small molecule hepatitic C virus (HCV) replication inhibitors involving HCV protease, for the treatment of hepatitis C. Under this collaboration,
Achillion is obligated to continue development of the inhibitor compounds according to a mutually agreed upon development plan, through completion of a proof-of-concept clinical study in HCV-infected patients. The costs incurred to achieve
proof-of-concept will be shared equally between Achillion and us. Following the proof-of-concept study, we are obligated to assume full responsibilities and incur all costs associated with development and commercialization of compounds warranting
further development. Achillion has the option to participate in U.S. commercialization efforts for future products arising from this collaboration. In conjunction with the signing of the collaboration, we paid a $5.0 million up-front license fee,
which was recorded in R D expenses as there was no future alternative use for the licensed technology. Additionally, we invested in Achillion s convertible preferred stock and agreed to make payments to Achillion upon achievement of certain
milestones outlined in our agreement as well as pay royalties on future net sales of products arising from this collaboration.      In October
2006, Achillion completed an initial public offering and our convertible preferred stock was converted into shares of Achillion common stock. In December 2006, Achillion began dosing HCV-infected patients in a Phase 1/2 clinical study of GS 9132
(also known as ACH-806) for the treatment of hepatitis C. In December 2007, we recorded a write-down of $7.0 million as part of our review for other-than-temporary impairment since the quoted market price of Achillion had been less
than our cost basis for more than three consecutive quarters (see Note 6).       GlaxoSmithKline Inc.       In April 2002, we granted GSK the right to commercialize Hepsera, our oral antiviral for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, in Asia, Latin America and
certain other territories. Under the agreement, we retained rights to Hepsera in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Turkey. GSK received exclusive rights to develop Hepsera solely for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
in all of its territories, the most significant of which include China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. We received a $2.0 million milestone payment from GSK for the U.S. approval of Hepsera in 2002, a $2.0 million milestone payment for the Canadian
approval of Hepsera in 2003 and an aggregate of $13.0 million in milestone payments for the commercial approvals of Hepsera in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan in 2004. In 2006, we received an aggregate of $10.0 million in milestone payments from GSK
for the achievement by GSK of four consecutive quarters of Hepsera gross sales exceeding $75.0 million and the achievement of a certain drug status in China.      GSK has full responsibility for the development and commercialization of Hepsera in its territories. The up-front license fee and approval milestones have been recorded as deferred revenue with a total of $3.6
million, $3.0 million and $2.4 million being recognized as contract revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The  
       
   109   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 $27.9 million balance of deferred revenue at December 31, 2007 is expected to be amortized into contract revenue over the remaining period of our supply
of Hepsera to GSK under the agreement, which is approximately nine years.      In addition, GSK is required to pay us royalties on net sales
that GSK generates from sales of Hepsera and Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (GSK s hepatitis product) in the GSK territories. We began receiving royalties from GSK s sales of Hepsera in the first quarter of 2004 and recorded $22.8 million,
$16.1 million and $7.6 million of royalty revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.      As a result of the acquisition of Myogen in
November 2006, we assumed all rights to the March 2006 license and distribution and supply agreements between Myogen and GSK. Under the terms of the license agreement, GSK received an exclusive sublicense to our rights to ambrisentan for
certain hypertensive conditions in territories outside of the United States. We received an up-front payment and, subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we will be eligible to receive additional milestone payments. In addition, we will
receive stepped royalties based on net sales of ambrisentan in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for ambrisentan in the GSK territories during the term of the license
agreement. We will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for ambrisentan in the United States, Canada and the European Economic Area,
and each party may conduct additional development activities in its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the licensed field and each party will pay its share of external costs
associated with such joint development. In March 2007, we received a milestone payment of $11.0 million from GSK for validation by the EMEA of the marketing authorization application for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH. The milestone and the
up-front license payments of $23.3 million have been recorded as deferred revenue and are being amortized into contract revenue over the remaining period for which we have performance obligations under the agreement, which is approximately eight
years. In February 2008, ambrisentan received a positive opinion from the European Committee for Human Medicinal Products for the treatment of PAH and will be marketed under the name Volibris by GSK upon approval.      Under the terms of a license agreement and a distribution and supply agreement that we assumed as part of the acquisition of Myogen, we have received
exclusive rights to market, promote and distribute Flolan and the sterile diluent for Flolan in the United States until April 2009.       OSI
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       In March 2000, we granted OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc (OSI), as successor to Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
worldwide rights to all therapeutic uses of Macugen. Macugen is an inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, which is known to play a role in the development of certain ophthalmic diseases. Under the terms of the agreement, OSI was
responsible for all R D costs. OSI has sublicensed the rights to Macugen in territories outside of the United States to Pfizer, and we entered into a license agreement with Pfizer on the same terms as contained in our agreement with OSI. We are
entitled to receive payments from OSI if OSI reaches certain milestones, as well as for royalties on worldwide net sales of Macugen, subject to our obligation to make payments to third parties relating to these royalties. Our agreement with OSI
expires upon the later of ten years after the first commercial sale of any product developed, or the date the last patent expires under the agreement.      In December 2003, we entered into an agreement with OSI to fill and finish Macugen for OSI. In January 2005, OSI received FDA approval for the sale of Macugen in the United States. In February 2006, Macugen was
approved in the European Union, and in June 2006, we recognized a $5.0 million milestone payment from OSI relating to the first commercial sale of Macugen in the European Union which was included in contract revenue. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we
recorded contract revenue of $2.9 million, $10.4 million and $13.1 million, respectively, in connection with clinical supplies we provided to OSI and milestones achieved by OSI.         
   110   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Astellas Pharma Inc.       In 1991, we entered into an agreement with Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas), as successor to Fujisawa USA, Inc., related to rights to market AmBisome. Under the terms of the agreement, as amended, Astellas is
responsible for promotion of AmBisome in the United States and Canada. We have exclusive marketing rights to AmBisome in the rest of the world, subject to our obligation to pay royalties to Astellas in connection with sales in significant markets in
Asia, including China, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. In connection with U.S. sales, Astellas purchases AmBisome from us at our manufacturing cost. For sales in Canada, Astellas purchases AmBisome at manufacturing cost plus a specified
percentage. We receive royalties equal to 20% of Astellas s gross profits from the sale of AmBisome in the United States and Canada. Gross profits include a deduction for cost of goods sold, giving us a current effective royalty rate of
approximately 17% of Astellas s net sales of AmBisome in the United States. In connection with this agreement, we recorded royalty revenues of $10.4 million, $12.2 million and $13.0 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.       

11.   
   LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS          Convertible Senior Notes    
  In April 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and $650.0 million principal amount of
convertible senior notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) in a private placement pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50%
and 0.625%, respectively. Debt issuance costs of $23.8 million in connection with the issuance of the Notes were recorded in other noncurrent assets and are being amortized to interest expense on a straight-line basis over the contractual terms of
the Notes. The aggregate principal amount of the Notes sold reflects the full exercise by the initial purchasers of their option to purchase additional Notes to cover over-allotments. The 2011 Notes may be convertible based on an initial conversion
rate of 25.8048 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2011 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.75 per share). The 2013 Notes may be convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 26.2460 shares per $1,000
principal amount of 2013 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.10 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning
after September 30, 2006 if the closing price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the last 30 consecutive trading day period of the previous quarter is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price per share, 2) if we
make specified distributions to holders of our common stock or if specified corporate transactions occur, or 3) during the last month prior to maturity of the applicable Notes. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the
lesser of (i) the principal amount of the note or (ii) the conversion value for such note. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, we may also deliver, at our option, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the
conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, we may be required to provide a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In
addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any. At
December 31, 2007, the fair values of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes were approximately $871.0 million and $876.7 million, respectively, based on their quoted market values.      Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, we purchased convertible note hedges in private transactions at a cost of $379.1 million to cover, subject to
customary anti-dilution adjustments, 33.8 million shares of our common stock at strike prices that correspond to the initial conversion prices of the Notes. If the market value per share of our common stock at the time of conversion of the
Notes is above the strike price of the applicable convertible note hedges, we are entitled to receive from the counterparties in the transactions cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and common stock, at our option, for the
excess of the then market  
       
   111   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 price of the common stock over the strike price of the convertible note hedges. The convertible note hedges will terminate upon the maturity of the related
Notes or when none of the related Notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. We also sold warrants to acquire 33.8 million shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, in private transactions and
received net proceeds of $235.5 million. If the market value of our common stock at the time of the exercise of the applicable warrants exceeds their respective strike prices, we will be required to net settle in cash or shares of our common stock,
at our option, with the respective counterparties for the value of the warrants in excess of the warrant strike prices. The maximum number of shares of common stock that could be issued by us should we choose to net share settle the warrants is
35.5 million shares, or 105% of the underlying share amount, which we have reserved for potential future issuance. The warrants have strike prices of $50.80 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2011) and $53.90 per share (for the warrants
expiring in 2013) and are exercisable only on the respective expiration dates. Taken together, the convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the
initial conversion price to $50.80 per share for the 2011 Notes and $53.90 per share for the 2013 Notes. The net cost of $143.7 million of the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions was recorded in stockholders  equity.      Because we have the choice of settling the convertible note hedges and warrants in cash or shares of our stock, and these contracts meet all of the
applicable criteria for equity classification as outlined in EITF Issue No. 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own   Stock , the cost of the convertible note
hedges and net proceeds from the sale of the warrants are classified in stockholders  equity. In addition, because both of these contracts are classified in stockholders  equity and are indexed to our own common stock, they are not
accounted for as derivatives under SFAS 133. We also recorded a deferred tax asset of $148.9 million in APIC for the effect of the future tax benefits related to the convertible note hedges in accordance with SFAS 109 and EITF No. 05-08,
 Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a Beneficial Conversion Feature .      Contemporaneously with the closing of the
sale of the Notes, a portion of the net proceeds from the Notes  issuance and the proceeds of the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 16.7 million shares of our common stock for $544.9 million under our stock repurchase program.
     The terms of the Notes agreements require us to comply with certain covenants. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with
all such covenants.       Credit Facilities       In December 2005, we entered into an agreement with a syndicate of banks for a five-year $500.0 million senior credit facility. The $500.0 million facility consisted of an uncollateralized $300.0 million term loan, which was entered into by
Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation (GBIC), one of our wholly-owned Irish subsidiaries, and an uncollateralized $200.0 million revolving credit facility, which was entered into by the U.S. parent company, Gilead Sciences, Inc. The proceeds
from the term loan were used by GBIC in December 2005 to facilitate a cash dividend distribution of $280.0 million to the U.S. parent company as part of the repatriation of our qualified foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs
Creation Act (AJCA).      Under the terms of our term loan, the minimum amount of the principal payment that was required to be repaid at the
end of each calendar quarter, beginning on March 31, 2006, was five percent of the outstanding balance. Interest accrued at a rate of LIBOR plus a tiered contractual rate of up to 62.5 basis points and was payable quarterly in arrears. GBIC
could prepay the term loan, together with accrued interest on the prepaid principal, at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium. The U.S. parent company and another wholly-owned subsidiary were guarantors. During the year ended
December 31, 2006, $201.0 million of the term  
       
   112   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 loan principal was repaid. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we repaid $99.0 million which represented the remaining amounts due under the term
loan at which time the term loan was terminated.      Under the terms of the revolving credit facility entered into in December 2005, interest
accrued and was payable at a rate of LIBOR plus a tiered contractual rate of up to 50 basis points, and was payable quarterly in arrears. The U.S. parent company could prepay any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest on the prepaid
principal, at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium. Any outstanding interest or principal at December 2010 would be payable on demand. The capacity of the revolving credit facility would increase to a maximum of $500.0 million as
the term loan was repaid. We had the ability to irrevocably cancel any unutilized portion of the revolving credit facility, in whole or in part. Any proceeds obtained under the revolving credit facility were expected to be used for working capital,
capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit up to $25.0 million. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries was the guarantor. As of December 31, 2006, we did not have any borrowings under
this revolving credit facility.      In January 2007, we received waivers for non-compliance with the total debt to total capitalization
financial covenants for the year ended December 31, 2006 contained in the credit agreements underlying our $500.0 million credit facility. The acquisition-related IPR D expenses of $2.04 billion that we recorded during the fourth quarter of
2006 for purchased IPR D caused us to not comply with the financial covenants. Concurrent with the waiver, we prospectively amended the credit agreements to exclude all IPR D expenses that we recorded commencing October 1, 2006 from the
definition of total Consolidated Stockholders  Equity used in the calculation of total capitalization and the total debt to total capitalization ratio contained in the credit agreements.      In December 2007, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which superseded the existing revolving credit agreement, with a syndicate of
banks to increase the credit facility to $1.25 billion. The amended and restated credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit, and was entered into by GBIC and U.S. parent company. Under the terms of the
amended and restated credit agreement, we may borrow initially up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. Loans under the amended and restated credit agreement bear interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 20
basis points to 32 basis points or (ii) the base rate, as defined in the amended and restated credit agreement. We can prepay any outstanding borrowings at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium, and any outstanding interest or
principal would be due and payable in December 2012. In connection with the amended and restated credit agreement, the U.S. parent company entered into an agreement guaranteeing the obligations of GBIC under the amended and restated credit
agreement. We expect to use the proceeds of any loans under the amended and restated credit agreement for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had a $1.5 million letter of credit outstanding
under the amended and restated credit agreement. We are required to comply with certain covenants under the amended and restated credit agreement and as of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all such covenants.         
   113   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Capital Lease Obligations       Future minimum payments of the capital lease obligations for each of the years ending December 31 are as follows (in thousands):       

12.   
   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES          Lease Arrangements
      We have entered into various long-term non-cancelable operating leases for equipment and facilities. Facility leases in San Dimas,
California; Durham, North Carolina; Westminister, Colorado; Seattle, Washington; the Dublin area of Ireland and the London area of the United Kingdom expire on various dates between 2008 and 2029. Our leases in Ireland and the United Kingdom are for
25 and 10 years, respectively, with rent subject to increase on the fifth anniversary of the respective commencement dates. Many of our facility leases have options to renew. We also have operating leases for sales, marketing and administrative
facilities in Europe, Canada and Australia with various terms. Our equipment leases include three corporate aircraft, with varying terms, with renewal options upon expiration of the lease term.      Lease expense under our operating leases totaled approximately $28.8 million in 2007, $24.4 million in 2006 and $17.2 million in 2005. Aggregate
non-cancelable future minimum rental payments under operating leases for each of the years ending December 31 are as follows (in thousands):       
     Legal Proceedings       On May 12, 2006, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California executed orders dismissing in its entirety and with prejudice the fourth consolidated amended complaint associated with a
purported class action lawsuit against us and our Chief Executive Officer; Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer; former Executive Vice President of Operations; Executive Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Scientific
Officer; Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Senior Vice President of Research, alleging that the defendants violated federal securities laws, specifically Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of  
       
   114   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission, by making certain alleged false and
misleading statements. The plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal.      On November 29, 2006, we received a subpoena from the United
States Attorney s Office in San Francisco requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for Truvada, Viread and Emtriva. We have complied with the United States Attorney s subpoena and intend to cooperate in
any related government investigation.      We are also a party to various other legal actions that arose in the ordinary course of our
business. We do not believe that any of these other legal actions will have a material adverse impact on our business, consolidated results of operations or financial position.       Other Commitments       In August 2007, as a result of a review of the terms under our existing corporate
aircraft leases and upon consideration of the various alternatives available to us upon their expiration, we entered into agreements to purchase three aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010 and 2013. The aggregate purchase price under the
purchase agreements is $94.2 million. As of December 31, 2007, we have made deposits totaling $4.7 million which have been recorded as other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future deposits due under the terms of the
purchase agreements are as follows: $2.6 million in 2008, $21.2 million in 2009, $28.5 million in 2010, $4.1 million in 2011, $20.7 million in 2012 and $12.4 million in 2013. We have the option to terminate the purchase agreements, subject to a
maximum payment of 7.5% of the fully-equipped price of the aircraft.      In the normal course of business, we have entered into various firm
purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory-related activities, and as of December 31, 2007, they consist of the following for the next five years: $274.4 million in 2008, $131.8 million in 2009,
$127.8 million in 2010, $60.1 million in 2011 and $79.5 million in 2012. The amounts related to active pharmaceutical ingredients only represent minimum purchase requirements. Actual payments for the purchases related to these active pharmaceutical
ingredients were $548.3 million, $200.6 million and $120.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.       

13.   
   STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY          Stock Repurchase Program
      In March 2006, our Board of Directors (Board) authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.0
billion over a two-year period through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately-negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. In April
2006, we repurchased and retired 16,734,000 shares of our common stock at $32.57 per share for an aggregate of $544.9 million. In May and June 2007, we repurchased and retired an aggregate of 11,228,656 shares of our common stock at an average
purchase price of $40.51 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $454.9 million. The 2006 stock repurchase program expires in March 2008, but we do not intend to make any further repurchases of our common stock under this program . 
     In October 2007, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $3.0 billion through open
market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar  
       
   115   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 arrangements. In December 2007, we repurchased and retired 705,600 shares of our common stock at $46.28 per share for an aggregate of $32.7 million under the
$3.0 billion stock repurchase program. The remaining authorized amount of stock repurchases that may be made under this stock repurchase program which terminates in December 2010 is $2.97 billion.      We use the par value method of accounting for our stock repurchases. Under the par value method, common stock is first charged with the par value of the
shares involved. The excess of the cost of shares acquired over the par value is allocated to APIC based on an estimated average original sales price per issued share with the excess amounts charged to retained earnings (accumulated deficit). As a
result of our stock repurchase in 2006, we reduced common stock and APIC by $33.9 million and retained earnings by $511.0 million. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2007, we reduced common stock and APIC by $26.9 million and charged $460.8
million to retained earnings.       Preferred Stock       We have 5,000,000 shares of authorized preferred stock issuable in series. Our Board is authorized to determine the designation, powers, preferences and rights of any such series. We have designated 800,000 shares of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock for potential issuance under our November 1994 rights agreement with Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), as amended (the Rights Plan). There was no preferred stock
outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006.       Rights Agreement       The Rights Plan provides for the distribution of a preferred stock purchase right as a dividend for each share of our common stock. The purchase rights
are not currently exercisable. Under certain conditions involving an acquisition or proposed acquisition by any person or group of 15% or more of our common stock, the purchase rights permit the holders (other than the 15% holder) to purchase our
common stock at a 50% discount from the market price at that time, upon payment of a specified exercise price per purchase right. In addition, in the event of certain business combinations, the purchase rights permit the purchase of the common stock
of an acquirer at a 50% discount from the market price at that time. Under certain conditions, the purchase rights may be redeemed by the Board in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.0025 per purchase right. The purchase rights have no voting
privileges and are attached to and automatically trade with our common stock.      In October 1999, October 2003 and May 2006, the Board
approved amendments to the Rights Plan. The first amendment provided, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $15 to $100 and an extension of the term of the plan from November 2004 to
October 2009. The second amendment provides, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $100 to $400 and an extension of the term of the Rights Plan to October 2013. The third amendment was a
clarifying amendment entered into in connection with an increase in the designated number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for potential issuance under the Rights Plan in May 2006.       Stock Option Plans       In May 2004, our stockholders
approved and we adopted our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (amended in May 2007) (the 2004 Plan). Stock options under the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NeXstar), Triangle, Corus and Myogen stock option plans, which we assumed as a result of the
acquisitions of NeXstar, Triangle, Corus, and Myogen have been converted into our options to purchase our common stock effective with the closing of the respective acquisitions. The 2004 Plan is a broad-based, incentive plan that allows for the
awards to be granted to  
       
   116   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 our employees, directors and consultants. The 2004 Plan provides for option grants designated as either non-qualified or incentive stock options. Prior to
January 1, 2006, we granted both non-qualified and incentive stock options, but all stock options granted after January 1, 2006 have been nonqualified stock options. Under the 2004 Plan, employee stock options generally vest over five
years, are exercisable over a period not to exceed the contractual term of ten years from the date the stock options are issued and are granted at prices not less than the fair value of our common stock on the grant date. Stock option exercises are
settled with newly issued common stock from the 2004 Plan s previously authorized and available pool of shares. In May 2007, our stockholders approved an increase of an additional 6,000,000 in the number of shares of common stock available for
issuance under the 2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2007, a total of 91,375,968 shares of common stock have been authorized for grant under the 2004 Plan, a total of 52,570,742 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance and there were
38,501,168 shares remaining and available for future grant under the 2004 Plan.      The following table summarizes activity under our stock
option plans. All option grants presented in the table had exercise prices not less than the fair value of the underlying common stock on the grant date (shares in thousands):       
    The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005 were $606.0 million, $427.5 million and $312.4 million, respectively. The total fair value of stock options that vested during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $193.2 million, $130.9 million and $114.6
million, respectively.      As of December 31, 2007, the number of options outstanding that are expected to vest, net of estimated future
option forfeitures in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R, was 30,698,274 with the weighted average exercise price of $27.70, the aggregate intrinsic value of $562.2 million and the weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.0 years.
The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2007 were $2.18 billion and $1.46 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual life
for options outstanding and stock options exercisable were 6.7 and 5.4 years, respectively.         
   117   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following is a summary of our stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
December 31, 2007 (options in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2007, there was $389.2 million of unrecognized compensation cost related
to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted average period of 2.8 years.       Performance Shares       In January 2007, we granted 369,680 performance-based share awards under the 2004 Plan. These awards were divided into three tranches for both vesting and
performance measurement purposes. Subject to our achievement of specified market and performance goals relative to a pre-determined peer group, these awards will vest over a three-year period. The actual number of our common stock that we will
ultimately issue will be calculated by multiplying the number of performance shares by a payout percentage ranging from 0% to 200%. Performance shares will vest only when a committee (or subcommittee) of our Board of Directors has determined that we
have achieved our specified market and performance goals. The fair value of the market-related component of the performance shares is estimated at grant date using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology, and the fair value of the performance-related
component of the performance shares is equivalent to the grant-date fair value of our common stock. Stock-based compensation for these performance shares is recognized as expense over the requisite performance periods using a straight-line
expense attribution approach reduced for estimated forfeitures. We recognized $7.8 million of stock-based compensation expense in 2007 relating to these performance shares. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of the performance shares was
$34.80 per share. As of December 31, 2007, none of the performance shares had vested, and there was $8.9 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to these nonvested performance shares, which is expected to be recognized over an
estimated weighted average period of 1.5 years.      In January 2008, we granted an additional 219,690 performance-based share awards with
terms substantially similar to the awards granted in 2007 except that there will be a single three-year performance measurement and vesting period.       Restricted Stock Awards       In 2007, we granted 14,500 restricted stock awards to one of our non-employee directors under the
2004 Plan in lieu of stock options customarily provided as compensation for non-employee directors. The fair value of these restricted stock awards was based on the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant, and these restricted stock
shares vest over six months from the date of grant.      In 2007, we also granted 24,000 restricted stock awards to certain of our employees
under the 2004 Plan. The vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of specified performance goals.         
   118   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following is a summary of the activity relating to our nonvested restricted stock awards for the
year ended December 31, 2007:       
    The weighted-average grant-date fair value of restricted stock awards granted in 2007, 2006 and
2005 were $41.41, $30.97 and $19.44, respectively. The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $0.9 million, $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively.       Employee Stock Purchase Plan       Under our Employee
Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (ESPP), employees can purchase shares of our common stock based on a percentage of their compensation subject to certain limits. The purchase price per share is equal to the lower of 85% of the fair value of our
common stock on the offering date or the purchase date. A two-year look-back feature in our ESPP causes the offering period to reset if the fair value of our common stock on the purchase date is less than that on the original offering date. ESPP
purchases by employees are settled with newly-issued common stock from the ESPP s previously authorized and available pool of shares. In May 2007, our stockholders approved amendments to our ESPP to increase the number of shares authorized and
reserved for issuance under the ESPP by an additional 8,000,000 shares of our common stock and extend the term of the ESPP for an additional ten years until January 2017. During 2007, 912,539 shares were issued under the ESPP for $23.6 million.
A total of 33,280,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the ESPP, and there were 9,570,585 shares remaining and available for issuance under the ESPP as of December 31, 2007.      As of December 31, 2007, there was $6.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to ESPP, which is expected to be recognized over an
estimated weighted-average period of 0.7 years.       

14.   
   STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION         On January 1, 2006,
we adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R, which requires that all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on their fair values.         
   119   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below summarizes stock-based compensation expense under SFAS 123R (in thousands, except per
share amounts):       
    During the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we capitalized $9.8 million and $10.2
million of stock-based compensation costs into inventory, respectively.      Stock-based compensation is recognized as expense over the
requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Operations using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for nonvested stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R and using the straight-line expense attribution
approach for stock options granted after the adoption of SFAS 123R. As stock-based compensation expense related to stock options recognized on adoption of SFAS 123R is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, gross expense has been reduced for
estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated forfeitures based on our historical
experience. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, pro forma information required under SFAS 123 included forfeitures as they occurred. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, we will only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in APIC
if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the
extraterritorial income deduction through the Consolidated Statements of Operations rather than through APIC.         
   120   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Pro Forma Information Under SFAS 123       The table below presents net income and basic and diluted net income per share as if compensation cost for our stock option plans and ESPP had been
determined based on the estimated fair value of awards under those plans on the grant or purchase date in accordance with SFAS 123 (in thousands, except per share amounts):       
     Valuation Assumptions       Fair values of awards granted under the stock option plans and ESPP were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for
use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and
expected award life. In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123R, we refined the methodologies used to derive our valuation model assumptions. To calculate the estimated fair value of the awards, we used the following assumptions:       
    The fair value of stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R was calculated using
the multiple option approach while the fair value of stock options granted beginning January 1, 2006 was calculated using the single option approach.         
   121   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we used historical stock price volatility in connection with the
Black-Scholes option valuation model. In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123R, we determined that a blend of historical volatility along with implied volatility for traded options on our common stock is a better reflection of our expected
volatility.      The expected life of stock-based awards represents the weighted-average period the awards are expected to remain outstanding.
We estimate the weighted-average expected life based on historical cancellation and historical exercise data related to our stock options as well as the contractual term and vesting terms of the awards.      The risk-free interest rate is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the stock-based awards. The dividend yield is based on our
history and expectation of dividend payouts.       

15.   
   COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)         Comprehensive income
(loss) comprises net income (loss) and certain changes in stockholders  equity that are excluded from net income (loss), such as changes in the fair value of our outstanding effective cash flow hedges, changes in unrealized gains and losses on
our available-for-sale securities and changes in our cumulative foreign currency translation account. Comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is included in our Consolidated Statement of
Stockholders  Equity. The components of comprehensive income (loss) are shown net of related taxes where the underlying assets or liabilities are held in jurisdictions that are expected to generate a future tax benefit or liability.   
  The following reclassifications were recorded in connection with net realized gains (losses) on sales of securities and cash flow hedges that were
previously included in comprehensive income (loss) (in thousands):       
    The balance of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, as reported on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets consists of the following components (in thousands):       
       
   122   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

16.   
   DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION         We operate in one business segment, which primarily focuses on the development and commercialization of human therapeutics for life threatening diseases. All products are included in one segment, because our major
products, Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome, which together accounted for substantially all of our total product sales for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, have similar economic and other
characteristics, including the nature of the products and production processes, type of customers, distribution methods and regulatory environment.      Product sales consist of the following (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes total revenues from external customers and collaboration partners
by geographic region (in thousands). Product sales and product-related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on ship-to location. Royalty and non-product related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on the location of the
collaboration partner.       
    At December 31, 2007, the net book value of our property, plant and equipment in the United
States, Ireland and Canada were $317.8 million, $62.3 million and $53.4 million, respectively, which comprised approximately 97% of the total net book value of our property, plant and equipment.         
   123   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes revenues from our customers who individually accounted for 10% or more
of our total revenues (as a % of total revenues):       

The provision for income taxes
consists of the following (in thousands):       
    Foreign pre-tax income was $740.9 million, $461.6 million and $263.9 million in 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively. The cumulative unremitted foreign earnings that are considered to be permanently invested outside the United States and for which no U.S. taxes have been provided, were approximately $1.10 billion and $404.8 million as
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The residual U.S. tax liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $386.1 million and $141.7 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      The difference between the provision for income taxes and the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to income (loss)
before provision for income taxes is as follows (in thousands):       
       
   124   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):       
    The valuation allowance increased (decreased) by $0.3 million, $7.1 million and ($17.2) million
for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have concluded, based on the standard set forth in SFAS 109, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize the benefit from the deferred tax assets related
to certain state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. If released, $7.4 million of the valuation allowance would have been credited to goodwill.      At December 31, 2007, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $125.4 million. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2026, if not utilized.
We also had federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $48.1 million which expire through 2026 if not utilized. In addition, we had state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $564.6 million and $3.1 million,
respectively, on which a valuation allowance of $23.5 million was provided. The state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2026 and 2025, respectively, if not utilized.      Utilization of net operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations provided in the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. This annual limitation may result in the expiration of the net operating losses and credits before utilization.      The deferred tax assets relating to tax benefits of employee stock option grants have been reduced to reflect exercises in 2007. Some exercises resulted
in tax deductions in excess of previously recorded benefits based on the option value at the time of grant. These additional tax benefits were credited to APIC pursuant to SFAS 123R.         
   125   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA allowed for a deduction of 85% of
certain qualified foreign earnings that were repatriated, as defined in the AJCA. We elected to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriation in 2005. The earnings repatriation resulted in a one-time tax benefit of approximately $25.1
million, which included the reversal of the deferred tax liability previously accrued on unremitted foreign earnings of $13.1 million at December 31, 2004.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For U.S. federal and California income tax purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for all years
from inception due to our utilization of net operating losses relating to prior years.      Our income tax returns are audited by federal,
state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2003 and 2004 tax years, by the Franchise Tax Board of California for the 2004 and 2005 tax years and by various state and foreign
jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among
various tax jurisdictions. While we believe our positions comply with applicable laws, we periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.      We recorded liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with FIN 48. We do not believe any such items currently pending will have a
material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these items in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Prior to the adoption of FIN 48,
we recorded liabilities related to uncertain tax positions based upon SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies.       At
December 31, 2007, we have total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $111.7 million, including interest of $8.3 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $103.5 million, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax
rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we have continued to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statement of
Operations. With respect to the unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.      The following is a rollforward of our total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands):

126   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

18.   
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS         We maintain one
retirement savings plan under which eligible employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Gilead Plan). Under the Gilead Plan, employees may contribute up to 60% of their
eligible annual compensation, subject to IRS plan limits. We make matching contributions under the Gilead Plan. In 2007, we contributed up to 50% of an employee s first 6% of contributions up to an annual maximum match of $3,500 ($5,000
starting January 1, 2008). In both 2006 and 2005, we contributed up to 50% of an employee s first 6% of contributions up to an annual maximum match of $2,500. Our total matching contribution expense under the Gilead Plan was $4.5 million
in 2007, $2.9 million in 2006, and $1.8 million in 2005.      We maintain a deferred compensation plan under which our directors and key
employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes. The deferred compensation plan is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan which is not subject to the qualification requirements under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Compensation deferred after December 31, 2004 is subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, officers may contribute up to 70% of their annual salaries and up to 100% of their annual bonus
while directors may contribute up to 100% of their annual retainer fee. Amounts deferred by participants are deposited with a rabbi trust and are recorded in other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Beginning in 2004, directors
may also elect to receive all or a portion of their annual cash retainer in phantom shares, which gives the participant the right to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of shares over a specified period of time and which will
be payable in shares of our common stock (with fractional shares paid out in cash) as established by the plan administrator. As of December 31, 2007, we had 19,307 phantom shares outstanding. Participants can elect one of several distribution
dates available under the plan at which they will receive their deferred compensation payment.       

19.   
   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)         The
following amounts are in thousands, except per share amounts:       

(1)  
  In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recognized a $2.04 billion charge for purchased IPR D associated with our acquisitions.     

(2)  
  In the third quarter of 2006, we recognized a $355.6 million charge for purchased IPR D associated with our acquisition.           
   127   

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        

(1)  
  Allowances are for doubtful accounts, sales returns, cash discounts and chargebacks.     
       
   128   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

G ILEAD  S CIENCES , I NC .   

By:  
     
  / S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

John C. Martin              President and Chief Executive Officer        
 
    POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John C. Martin and Gregg H. Alton, and each
of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and
to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or
their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN               John C. Martin    
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director  (Principal Executive Officer)    
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/    J OHN  F.
M ILLIGAN               John F. Milligan    
      
    Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)    
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/    J AMES  M.
D ENNY               James M. Denny    
      
    Chairman of the Board of Directors   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/    P AUL 
B ERG               Paul Berg    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/    J OHN  F.
C OGAN               John F. Cogan    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/    E TIENNE  F.
D AVIGNON               Etienne F. Davignon    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/    C ARLA  A.
H ILLS                   Carla A. Hills    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2008   
       
   129   

Table of Contents  

130   

<EX-10.58>
 2
 dex1058.htm
 OFFER LETTER BETWEEN REGISTRANT AND CAROLINE DORSA

Offer Letter between Registrant and Caroline Dorsa 

Exhibit 10.58       October 4, 2007      Caroline Dorsa       Revised
Offer Letter       Dear Caroline,      Gilead Sciences, Inc. is
pleased to offer you the position of Chief Financial Officer reporting directly to me. We are very excited about the possibility of you joining Gilead in a key leadership role, and we look forward to the prospect of working with you. The following
outlines the specific terms of our offer:       
    Offer Details:       

Your salary on an annualized basis will be $500,000, less taxes, payable twice a month.          

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has approved extending you an option to purchase 100,000 shares of
Gilead Sciences Common Stock. Your options will have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of Gilead common stock at the time of the option grant. Your options will be granted at the next Compensation Committee meeting following your date
of employment at Gilead. You will be notified of the details after the options have been granted. These options are subject to a five-year vesting provision; i.e., 20% of the total number of shares vest one year after the option grant date and the
remaining 80% vest in 5% installments every quarter in years two through five. Following this initial grant, you will be eligible to participate in Gilead s stock option program under which you will be considered for annual grants based on your
performance. To be eligible for merit stock option grants for the performance year in which you are hired, you must be employed by June 30   th   .
Therefore, you will be eligible to participate in Gilead s stock option program in Q 1 2009.          

You will be paid an employment bonus of $250,000, less taxes. This bonus will be reflected on your first payroll check subsequent to your start date at Gilead. In
the event that your employment terminates within two years of your start date, you will be required to repay all or a portion of this bonus to Gilead, provided, however, that no repayment shall be required if your termination is a
 Termination of Employment  described in Section IV(a)(i) of the Gilead Severance Plan (as amended and restated January 1, 2005)(the  Severance Plan ), which Severance Plan is incorporated by reference herein. In the event
of your voluntary termination, you will be required to repay this amount within 90 days of the termination date.          

Gilead will grant you an award of 24,000 shares of performance-based restricted common stock of Gilead pursuant to the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Three
vesting Milestones will be determined within the first 30 days of your employment. If fewer than all three vesting events occur before the fifth anniversary of your start date, any unvested restricted stock as of that date will be
forfeited. In addition, if you cease Continuous Active Service (as defined in the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan) for a reason other than death, disability (as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code) or a Change in Control
(as defined in the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan) before the date on which either of the three vesting events occurs or before the fifth anniversary of your start date, whichever is earlier, any unvested restricted stock as of the date your
Continuous Active Service ceases will be forfeited. You will be provided with a Restricted Stock Award Agreement which contains further details related to your restricted stock.     

Caroline Dorsa      October 4,
2007      Page 2      Within 30 days of the date of
grant, you may make a  Section 83(b) election  to include in gross income, for federal income tax purposes, an amount equal to the fair market value of the restricted stock on the date of grant.      

You will be eligible to participate in an annual cash bonus program based on individual and company performance. Your target bonus is 40% of annual salary, less
taxes. The actual payout can range from 0% to 150% of this target, based on your performance against your annual goals and objectives, as well as the company s overall performance. This bonus will not be prorated for 2007.

The Company will provide a mortgage subsidy to assist you when purchasing a home in a significantly higher cost housing area compared to your previous lower cost
housing area. The subsidy is an amount of money to be used only to help you purchase a home in the new location by reducing the mortgage s interest rate for a period of time so that you can ease into the higher cost area. You cannot use the
mortgage subsidy for any purpose other than to reduce (temporarily) the interest rate on your loan. In order to be most tax advantageous to you, we will allow you to configure this subsidy in any manner you choose, provided it follows a reducing
schedule and all legal guidelines set forth by SIRVA mortgage. The mortgage subsidy is provided exclusively through SIRVA Mortgage for up to five years. The annual distribution is set on a reducing scale and the total subsidy amount is capped at
$190,000.00. If for any reason you are unable to take advantage of the full $190,000.00, the company will pay you the difference net, in the payroll cycle immediately following this event.          

You will receive $4000.00 net per month for up to six months, or until you current home sale is final, whichever comes first.          

We will provide you with up to 90 days of temporary accommodations in a fully furnished corporate apartment. Gilead and its relocation vendors will assist you with
the selection and billing for these accommodations.          

You will receive a moving allowance of up to $30,000 payable against receipts. This moving allowance is intended to relocate your household goods to California
utilizing the company-contracted carrier. If the moving costs are higher than provided for in this letter, approval for covering these additional costs will not be unreasonably withheld.          

Gilead will enroll you in their home marketing service, Buyer Value Option (BVO) Program, administered by our relocation vendor, SIRVA Relocation. All non-recurring
transaction costs in connection with the sale of your current home and purchase of a new home will be covered by Gilead, through SIRVA Relocation. This includes the real estate commission, typical seller closing costs, typical purchase closing
costs, and up to one mortgage  point  associated with the purchase of a new home. Please see the attached summary of our Relocation Program for further details. A complete policy will be provided to you by SIRVA Relocation.

You will be provided a lump sum of $20,000 (grossed up) for miscellaneous relocation expenses within the first week of your employment. This is intended to cover
items such as rental car, auto license and registration, lease termination and utility hook ups. If your miscellaneous expenses are higher than provided for in this letter, approval for covering these additional costs will not be unreasonably
withheld. Please retain all receipts for documentation of these expenses.          

Gilead Sciences will adjust certain relocation expenses to help offset the tax liability that may occur as a result of federal and state tax regulations. The
Company tax gross up will be based on your annualized base pay plus normal target incentive, or bonuses ONLY, excluding such one-time payments as stock options, deferred compensation, etc. Gilead Sciences will not include in its calculations any
income from any outside sources, like spousal or outside income.      

Caroline Dorsa      October 4,
2007      Page 3       

The cash amount of this relocation package including, but not limited to, any moving allowance, temporary housing costs, transaction costs, and lump sums accepted
by you is due and payable to Gilead 90 days after your last date of employment if your employment should terminate for any reason within two years of your employment date, unless such termination is the result of a merger or acquisition of Gilead.

Gilead provides a comprehensive company-paid benefits package including health, dental, vision, life insurance, and long-term disability insurance plans. You are
eligible for health and welfare benefits if you are a full-time employee working 30 hours or more (unless otherwise specified). You will need to enroll for medical or dental/vision within 31 days of your hire date, or you will not be eligible to
enroll until the next open enrollment, unless you have a qualifying life event. Upon completion of enrollment, your coverage begins on your date of hire.          

For your information, we have enclosed a Benefits Summary outlining Gilead s benefits programs. We will arrange for you to meet with a member of our
benefits staff to review your benefits package and enroll in the various programs. Please note that, as an executive, you will not accrue PTO but will instead have the flexibility of taking time off at your discretion in accordance with the
business needs of the corporation.          

At the next enrollment date, you will be eligible to participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan that offers you the opportunity to use up to 15% of your annual
salary, to the IRS maximum, through payroll deductions to purchase Gilead Common Stock at 85% of the market price at the date of enrollment or purchase. ESPP enrollment dates occur at the end of each quarter. Additionally, we offer a 401(k) plan,
which provides you with the opportunity for pre-tax long-term savings by deferring from 1-60% of your annual salary, subject to IRS maximums. Gilead will match 50% of up to 6% of your contributions to the plan. The maximum Company contribution is
$3,500 per year. More detailed information regarding your benefits will be provided at your New Employee Orientation, shortly after you begin employment.          

You will abide by Gilead Sciences  strict company policy that prohibits any new employee from using or bringing with them from any prior employer any
proprietary information, trade secrets, proprietary materials or processes of such former employers. Upon starting employment with Gilead Sciences, you will be required to sign Gilead Sciences  Confidentiality and Proprietary Inventions
Agreement for Employees indicating your agreement with this policy.          

You will also be required to sign the Employment Eligibility Verification (Form I-9). (You will need to complete and return section one of the I-9 Form along with
your signed offer letter). On your first day of employment, please bring the necessary documents that establish your identity and employment eligibility.          

You agree by signing below that the Company has made no other promises other than what is outlined in this letter. It contains the entire offer the Company is
making to you. Our agreement can only be modified by written agreement signed by you and the Company s Representative. You also agree that should you accept a position at Gilead Sciences, the employment relationship is based on the mutual
consent of the employee and the Company. Accordingly, either you or the Company can terminate the employment relationship at will, at any time, with or without cause or advance notice. You should also note that the Company may modify wages and
benefits from time to time at its discretion.         This offer of employment is effective until October 12, 2007. The offer is also
contingent upon successful background and reference checks. There are two originals of this letter enclosed.   

Caroline Dorsa      October 4,
2007      Page 4      If all of the foregoing is satisfactory, please
sign and date each original and return one to me by October 12, 2007 in the enclosed envelope, keeping the other original for yourself. Please also complete the following enclosed forms and mail them back with your signed offer letter:

Personal Data Sheet         Caroline, we look forward to
your joining the senior leadership team at Gilead Sciences.       

Sincerely,   

/s/ John F. Milligan   
 
    John F. Milligan     Chief Operating
Officer    
    Foregoing terms and conditions hereby accepted:       

</EX-10.58>

<EX-10.59>
 3
 dex1059.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. 2004 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.59        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        2004 EQUITY
INCENTIVE PLAN  1            AS AMENDED AND
RESTATED OCTOBER 22, 2007       1.  Purpose of the Plan . The purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract, retain and
motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to the success of the Company by offering them an opportunity to participate in the Company s future performance. This Plan was originally approved by
stockholders at the 2004 Annual Stockholders Meeting and serves as the successor to the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 1991 Stock Option Plan and the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 1995 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan. No further option grants will be
made under those plans, and the remaining shares available for issuance under those plans have been transferred to this Plan ad are available for issuance under this Plan.      The purposes of this October 2007 restatement is to expand the list of performance criteria to which the vesting of one or more Awards may be tied,
including Awards designed to provide Performance-Based Compensation, and to effect a series of technical revisions to the Plan in order to facilitate the administration of the Plan and to provide additional flexibility in structuring Awards.
     2.  Definitions . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:      (a)   Administrator   means the Board or any of the Committees appointed to administer the Plan.      (b)   Applicable Acceleration Period   means: (i) 24 months, in the case of the Company s Chief Executive
Officer, (ii) 18 months, in the case of an Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President of the Company, and (iii) 12 months, in the case of all other Grantees.      (c)   Applicable Laws   means the legal requirements relating to the Plan and the Awards under applicable provisions of
federal securities laws, state corporate and securities laws, the Code, the rules of any applicable stock exchange, and the rules of any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to Awards granted to residents therein.      (d)   Award   means the grant of an Option, SAR, Dividend Equivalent Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit,
Performance Unit, Performance Share, Phantom Share, or other right or benefit under the Plan.      (e)   Award
Agreement   means the written agreement evidencing the grant of an Award executed by the Company and the Grantee, including any amendments thereto.      (f)   Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.      (g)
  Cause   means, with respect to the termination by the Company or a Related Entity of the Grantee s Continuous Service, that such termination is for one or more of the reasons set forth in the definition of  Cause  as
such term is expressly defined in a then-effective written agreement between the Grantee and the Company or such Related Entity, or in the absence of such then-effective written agreement and definition, is based on, in the determination of the
Administrator, the Grantee s: (i) performance of any act, or failure to perform any act, in bad faith and to the detriment of the Company or a Related Entity; (ii) dishonesty, intentional misconduct, material violation of any
applicable Company or Related Entity policy, or material breach of any agreement with the Company or a Related Entity; or (iii) commission of a crime involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or physical or emotional harm to any person.

1      
    Includes amendments through October 22, 2007. Includes share adjustment to reflect two-for-one stock split of the
Common Stock effective September 3, 2004 and two-for-one stock split of the Common Stock effective June 22, 2007.            
   -1-   

(h)   Change in Control   means, for purposes of all Awards at the time
outstanding under the Plan, a change in ownership or control of the Company effected through the consummation of any of the following transactions:      (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Company s stockholders,  unless  securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the
voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Company s outstanding voting securities
immediately prior to such transaction,      (ii) a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the
Company s assets,      (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person
or any group of persons comprising a  group  within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Company or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with, the Company) becomes directly or indirectly (whether as a result of a single acquisition or by reason of one or more acquisitions within the twelve (12)-month period ending with the most recent
acquisition) the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the
Company s securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction
involves a direct issuance from the Company or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Company s existing stockholders, or      (iv) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the
Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or
nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.      In no event, however, shall a Change in Control be deemed to occur upon a merger, consolidation or other reorganization effected primarily to change the
State of the Company s incorporation or to create a holding company structure pursuant to which the Company becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of an entity whose outstanding voting securities immediately after its formation are beneficially
owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Company s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to the formation of such entity.      (i)   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      (j)   Committee   means any committee composed of members of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
     (k)   Common Stock   means the common stock of the Company.      (l)   Company   means Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation.      (m)   Consultant   means any person, including an advisor, who is compensated by the Company or any Related Entity for
services performed as a non-employee consultant;   provided, however,   that the term  Consultant  shall not include non-employee Directors serving in their capacity as Board members. The term  Consultant  shall include
a member of the board of directors of a Related Entity.      (n)   Continuous Service   means the performance of
services for the Company or a Related Entity (whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in the documents evidencing
the Award. For  
       
   -2-   

purposes of the Plan, a Grantee shall be deemed to cease Continuous Service immediately upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) the
Grantee no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Company or any Related Entity or (ii) the entity for which the Grantee is performing such services ceases to remain a Related Entity of the Company, even though the
Grantee may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. Continuous Service shall not be deemed to cease during a period of military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Company;   provided, however,  
that should such leave of absence exceed three (3) months, then for purposes of determining the period within which an Incentive Option may be exercised as such under the federal tax laws, the Grantee shall be deemed to have terminated Employee
status on the first day immediately following the expiration of such three (3)-month period, unless such Grantee is provided with the right to return to Continuous Service following such leave either by statute or by written contract. The Grantee
shall not receive any Continuous Service credit, for purposes of vesting in any outstanding Award or Awards made to the Grantee, for any period such Grantee is on a leave of absence, except to the extent otherwise required by law or pursuant to the
following procedure:       

A Grantee shall receive Continuous Service credit for such vesting purposes for (i) the first three months of an approved personal leave of absence and
(ii) the first seven months of any bona fide leave of absence (other than an approved personal leave), but in no event beyond the expiration date of such leave of absence;   provided, however,   that in the event the Grantee 
Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code and payable upon his or her separation from service, then the maximum period for which such Continuous Service credit shall be given with respect to that Award shall be determined in accordance with
Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(h) and accordingly shall not extend beyond the date the Grantee is deemed to have a separation from service for purposes of Section 409A.         In jurisdictions requiring notice in advance of an effective termination of a Grantee s service as an Employee, Director or Consultant, Continuous Active Service
shall be deemed terminated upon the actual cessation of such service to the Company or a Related Entity notwithstanding any required notice period that must be fulfilled before such individual s termination as an Employee, Director or
Consultant can be effective under Applicable Laws.      A Grantee on an approved leave of absence shall be deemed to terminate Continuous Service for purposes
of his or her outstanding Awards upon the earlier of (i) the expiration date of that leave of absence, unless such Grantee returns to active Continuous Service on or before that date, or (ii) the date the Grantee s Continuous Service
actually terminates by reason of his or her voluntary or involuntary termination or by reason of his or her death or disability;   provided, however,   that in the event the Grantee  Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code
and payable upon his or her separation from service, then his or her Continuous Service shall, with respect to that Award, be deemed to terminate when such Grantee is deemed to have a separation from service under Treasury Regulations
Section 1.409A-1(h).      (n)   Covered Employee   means an Employee who is a  covered employee 
under Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.      (o)   Director   means a member of the Board.      (p)   Dividend Equivalent Right   means a right entitling the Grantee to compensation measured by dividends paid with
respect to the Common Stock underlying his or her Award.      (q)   Domestic Partner   means a person who meets
and continues to meet all of the criteria detailed in the Gilead Sciences Affidavit of Domestic Partnership when the Domestic Partnership has been internally registered with the Company by filing with the Company an original, properly completed,
notarized Gilead Sciences Affidavit of Domestic Partnership.      (r)   Employee   means any person, including an
Officer or Director, who is in the employ of the Company or any Related Entity, subject to the control and direction of the Company or any Related Entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance. Neither service
as a Director nor payment of a director s fee by the Company or a Related Entity shall be sufficient to constitute  employment  by the Company.      (s)   Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.         
   -3-   

(t)   Fair Market Value   means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock
determined as follows:      (i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange, including without limitation
the Nasdaq Global or Global Select Market, the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange, its Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange
(or the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in the Common Stock) on the last market trading day prior to the date of determination (or, if no closing sales price or closing bid was reported on that date, as applicable, on the last trading
date such closing sales price or closing bid was reported), as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Board deems reliable; or      (ii) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted on an automated quotation system (including the OTC Bulletin Board) or by a recognized securities dealer, but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value per
share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid and high asked prices for the Common Stock on the last market trading day prior to the date of determination (or, if no such prices were reported on that date, on the last date such prices
were reported), as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Board deems reliable; or      (iii) In the
absence of an established market for the Common Stock of the type described in (i) and (ii), above, the Fair Market Value thereof shall, for purposes of any Award other than an Incentive Stock Option, be determined by the Board through the
reasonable application of a reasonable valuation method that takes into account the applicable valuation factors set forth in the Treasury Regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code and shall, for purposes of an Incentive Stock Option,
be determined by the Board in good faith in accordance with the standards of Section 422 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder.      (u)   Grantee   means an Employee, Director or Consultant who receives an Award under the Plan.      (v)   Immediate Family   means any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse,
sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, Domestic Partner, a trust in which such persons (or the Grantee) have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, a foundation in which such persons (or the Grantee) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which such persons (or the Grantee) own more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests.      (w)   Incentive Stock Option   means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.      (x)   Nonstatutory Stock Option  
means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.      (y)   Officer   means a person who is
an officer of the Company or a Related Entity within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.      (z)   Option   means an option to purchase Shares pursuant to an Award Agreement granted under the Plan.      (aa)   Parent   means a  parent corporation , whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in
Section 424(e) of the Code.      (bb)   Performance-Based Compensation   means compensation qualifying as
 performance-based compensation  under Section 162(m) of the Code.         
   -4-   

(cc)   Performance Share Units   means an Award denominated in Shares
which may be earned in whole or in part upon attainment of performance criteria established by the Administrator and settled in actual Shares, except to the extent the Administrator may determine to settle such Award in whole or in part in cash.
     (dd)   Performance Cash Units   means an Award denominated in U.S. dollars which may be earned in whole or
in part based upon attainment of performance criteria established by the Administrator and settled for cash, except to the Administrator may determine to settle such Award in whole or in part in Shares.      (ee)   Phantom Share   means an Award denominated in Shares in which the Grantee has the right to receive an amount equal
to the value of a specified number of Shares at a designated time or over a designated period and which will be payable in cash or Shares as established by the Administrator.      (ff)   Plan   means this Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated from time to time.
     (gg)   Related Entity   means (i) any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company and (ii) any corporation
in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company and ending with the corporation in the chain for which the Grantee provides services as an Employee, Director or Consultant, provided each corporation in such chain owns securities
representing at least twenty percent (20%) of the total outstanding voting power of the outstanding securities of another corporation or entity in such chain and there is a legitimate non-tax business purpose for making an Award to such
Grantee. However, for any Award not subject to Section 409A of the Code, a Related Entity shall also include any business, corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary
holds a substantial ownership interest, directly or indirectly.      (hh)   Restricted Stock   means Shares
issued under the Plan to the Grantee for such consideration (including any cash consideration) and subject to such restrictions on transfer, rights of first refusal, repurchase provisions, forfeiture provisions, and other terms and conditions as
established by the Administrator.      (ii)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an Award in the form of a contractual
right to receive Shares in one or more installments over a defined period of Continuous Service or in one or more deferred installments following the completion of such period of Continuous Service.      (jj)   Rule 16b-3   means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto, as in effect when
discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.      (kk)   SAR   means a stock appreciation right
entitling the Grantee to Shares or cash compensation, as established by the Administrator, measured by appreciation in the value of the Common Stock underlying such Award.      (ll)   Share   means a share of the Common Stock.      (mm)   Subsidiary   means a  subsidiary corporation , whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in
Section 424(f) of the Code.      (nn)   Withholding Taxes   mean the applicable federal and state income and
employment withholding taxes to which the holder of an Award under the Plan may become subject in connection with the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of that Award.         
   -5-   

3.  Stock Subject to the Plan .      (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 10 below, the maximum aggregate
number of Shares which may be issued pursuant to all Awards (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Options, SARs, Dividend Equivalent Rights, and Phantom Shares) is 60,400,000   2    Shares, plus the additional 23,588,284 Shares previously authorized for issuance in the aggregate under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 1991 Stock Option Plan and
the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 1995 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan which were not required to be issued with respect to options outstanding under those plans on May 25, 2004. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no more than 5,000,000 of
such Shares may be issued pursuant to all Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, SARs, and Phantom Shares, in total.   3    The Shares to be issued pursuant to Awards may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. Performance Units that by their terms may only be settled in cash shall not reduce the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be
issued under the Plan.      (b) Any Shares covered by an Award (or portion of an Award) which is forfeited, canceled or expires
(whether voluntarily or involuntarily) shall be deemed not to have been issued for purposes of determining the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan. Shares that actually have been issued under the Plan pursuant to an
Award shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future issuance under the Plan, except that if unvested Shares are forfeited, or repurchased by the Company at the lower of their original purchase price or their Fair Market
Value at the time of repurchase, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan. Should the exercise price of an option under the Plan be paid with shares of Common Stock, then the authorized reserve of Common Stock under the
Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which that option is exercised, and not by the net number of shares issued under the exercised stock option. Upon the exercise of any stock appreciation right under the Plan, the share reserve
shall be reduced by the gross number of shares as to which such right is exercised, and not by the net number of shares actually issued by the Company upon such exercise. If shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan are withheld by
the Company in satisfaction of the withholding taxes incurred in connection with the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of an Award, then the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross
number of Shares issuable at that time under such Award, calculated in each instance prior to any such share withholding.      4.
 Administration of the Plan .      (a)  Plan Administrator :      (i)  Administration with Respect to Directors and Officers . With respect to grants of Awards to Directors or Employees who are also
Officers or Directors of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee designated by the Board, which Committee shall be constituted in such a manner as to satisfy the Applicable Laws and to permit such
grants and related transactions under the Plan to be exempt from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act in accordance with Rule 16b-3. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the
Board. With respect to the grant of an Award to a Director who is not an Employee and which is not a scheduled Award under predetermined rules established by the Board or Committee, such grant shall be made only by a Committee (or subcommittee of
the Committee) which is comprised solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors, as this term is defined in Rule 16b-3, none of whom are the recipient of the Award.           

3    
        The 5,000,000 limit includes Performance Units to the extent
these Awards are settled in Shares. The Company has never declared nor paid a cash dividend and does not intend to grant any dividend equivalent rights in the foreseeable future; however, if a dividend equivalent right were to be granted in the
future, the Company would consider the dividend equivalent right subject to the 5,000,000 limit.            
   -6-   

(ii)  Administration With Respect to Consultants and Other Employees . With respect
to grants of Awards to Employees or Consultants who are neither Directors nor Officers of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee designated by the Board, which Committee shall be constituted in such
a manner as to satisfy the Applicable Laws. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. The Board may authorize one or more Officers of the Company or any Parent to grant
such Awards, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may impose; provided, however, that any delegation of such authority shall in all events be subject to the limitations and restrictions of Applicable Laws, including any required
limitation on the maximum of Shares for which Awards may be made by such Officer or Officers.      (iii)  Administration With
Respect to Covered Employees . Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to any Covered Employee intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be made only by a Committee (or subcommittee of a Committee) which is comprised
solely of two or more Directors eligible to serve on a committee making Awards qualifying as Performance-Based Compensation. In the case of such Awards granted to Covered Employees, references to the  Administrator  or to a
 Committee  shall be deemed to be references to such Committee or subcommittee.      (b)  Powers of the
Administrator . Subject to Applicable Laws and the provisions of the Plan (including any other powers given to the Administrator hereunder), and except as otherwise provided by the Board, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its
discretion:      (i) to select the Employees, Directors and Consultants to whom Awards may be granted from time to time
hereunder;      (ii) to determine when and to what extent Awards are to be granted hereunder;      (iii) to determine the number of Shares or the amount of other consideration to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;      (iv) to approve forms of Award Agreements for use under the Plan;      (v) to determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder;      (vi) to amend the terms of any outstanding Award granted under the Plan, provided that (A) any amendment that would adversely affect
the Grantee s rights under an outstanding Award shall not be made without the Grantee s written consent, (B) the reduction of the exercise price of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right awarded under the Plan shall be subject to
stockholder approval as provided in Section 7(b), and (C) canceling an Option or Stock Appreciation Right at a time when its exercise price exceeds the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares, in exchange for another Option, Stock
Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock or other Award shall be subject to stockholder approval as provided in Section 7(b), unless the cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a Change in Control as provided in Section 11 or
pursuant to an adjustment effected in accordance with Section 10;      (vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the
Plan and Awards, including without limitation, any notice of award or Award Agreement, granted pursuant to the Plan;      (viii)
to establish additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures to accommodate the rules or laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions and to afford Grantees favorable treatment under such rules or laws; provided, however, that no Award shall be
granted under any such additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures with terms or conditions which are inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan; and         
   -7-   

(ix) to take such other action, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the
Administrator deems appropriate.      (c)  Indemnification . In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they
may have as members of the Board or as Officers or Employees of the Company or a Related Entity, members of the Board and any Officers or Employees of the Company or a Related Entity to whom authority to act for the Board, the Administrator or the
Company is delegated shall be defended and indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by law on an after-tax basis against all reasonable expenses (including attorneys  fees), actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the
defense of any claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any Award
granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding, except in
relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct; provided, however, that within 30 days after the
institution of such claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at the Company s expense to handle and defend the same.      5.  Eligibility . Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants. Incentive Stock Options may be
granted only to Employees of the Company or a Parent or a Subsidiary of the Company. An Employee, Director or Consultant who has been granted an Award may, if otherwise eligible, be granted additional Awards. Awards may be granted to such Employees,
Directors or Consultants who are residing in non-U.S. jurisdictions as the Administrator may determine.      6.  Terms and Conditions of
Awards .      (a)  Type of Awards . The Administrator is authorized under the Plan to award any type of arrangement to
an Employee, Director or Consultant that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan and that by its terms involves or might involve the issuance of (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) an Option, a SAR, or similar right with a
fixed or variable price related to the Fair Market Value of the Shares and with an exercise or conversion privilege related to the passage of time, the occurrence of one or more events, or the satisfaction of performance criteria or other
conditions. Such awards include, without limitation, Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights, Performance Units, Performance Shares, or Phantom Shares. An Award may consist of one such security or benefit,
or two or more of them in any combination or alternative.      (b)  Designation of Award . Each Award shall be designated
in the Award Agreement. In the case of an Option, the Option shall be designated as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designation, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of the
Shares for which one or more Options designated as Incentive Stock Options become first exercisable by a Grantee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, the excess number of Shares
shall be treated as subject to Nonstatutory Stock Options. For this purpose, Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, except to extent otherwise provided by Applicable Law, and the Fair Market
Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the grant date of the relevant Option.      (c)  Conditions of Award .
Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Administrator shall determine the provisions, terms, and conditions of each Award including, but not limited to, the Award vesting schedule, repurchase provisions, rights of first refusal, forfeiture provisions,
form of payment (cash, Shares, or other consideration) upon settlement of the Award, payment contingencies, and satisfaction of any performance criteria. The performance criteria established by the Administrator may be based on any one of, or
combination of, the following: (i) revenue, (ii) achievement of specified milestones in the discovery and development of one or more of the Company s products, (iii) achievement of specified milestones in the commercialization of
one or more of the Company s products, (iv) achievement of specified milestones in the manufacturing of one or more of the  
       
   -8-   

Company s products, (v) expense targets, (vi) personal management objectives, (vii) share price (including, but not limited to, growth
measures and total shareholder return), (viii) earnings per share, (ix) operating efficiency, (x) operating margin, (xi) gross margin, (xii) return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, equity,
or sales), (xiii) net sales growth, (xiv) productivity ratios, (xv) operating income, (xvi) net operating profit, (xvii) net earnings or net income (before or after taxes), (xviii) cash flow (including, but not limited
to, operating cash flow, free cash flow, and cash flow return on capital), (xix) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and/or stock-based compensation expense, (xx) economic value added, (xxi) market share,
(xxii) customer satisfaction, (xxiii) working capital targets, and, with respect to Awards not intended to be Performance-Based Compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, (xxiv) other measures of performance selected by the
Administrator. In addition, such performance criteria may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of the Company s performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other entities and may also
be based on the performance of any of the Company s business units or divisions or any Parent or Subsidiary. Each applicable performance criteria may include a minimum threshold level of performance below which no Award will be earned, levels
of performance at which specified portions of an Award will be earned and a maximum level of performance at which an Award will be fully earned. Each applicable performance criteria may be structured at the time of the Award to provide for
appropriate adjustment for one or more of the following items: (A) asset impairments or write-downs; (B) litigation judgments or claim settlements; (C) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other laws, regulations
or provisions affecting reported results; (D) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; (E) any extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management s
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company s annual report to stockholders for the applicable year, (F) the operations of any business acquired by the Company or any Parent or
Subsidiary or of any joint venture established by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary or (G) the divestiture of one or more business operations or the assets thereof.      (d)  Acquisitions and Other Transactions . The Administrator may issue Awards under the Plan in settlement, assumption or
substitution for, outstanding awards or obligations to grant future awards in connection with the acquisition by the Company or a Related Entity of another entity, an interest in another entity or an additional interest in a Related Entity, whether
by merger, stock purchase, asset purchase or other form of transaction.      (e)  Deferral of Award Payment . The
Administrator may establish one or more programs under the Plan to permit selected Grantees the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of the Shares or other consideration due upon the settlement of an Award, satisfaction of performance criteria, or
other event that absent the election would entitle the Grantee to payment or receipt of Shares or other consideration under an Award. The Administrator may establish the election procedures, the timing of such elections, the mechanisms for payments
of, and accrual of interest or other earnings, if any, on amounts, Shares or other consideration so deferred, and such other terms, conditions, rules and procedures that the Administrator deems advisable for the administration of any such deferral
program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each such deferral opportunity shall be structured by the Administrator so as to comply with all applicable requirements of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.      (f)  Separate Programs . The Administrator may establish one or more separate programs under the Plan for the purpose of issuing
particular forms of Awards to one or more classes of Grantees on such terms and conditions as determined by the Administrator from time to time.      (g)  Individual Limitations on Awards . The maximum number of Shares with respect to which Options may be granted to any Grantee in any fiscal year of the Company shall be limited to 2,500,000 Shares. The maximum
number of Shares as to which Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, SARs, or Phantom Shares may in the aggregate be granted to any Grantee in any fiscal year of the Company shall be 400,000 Shares. For the
fiscal year in which occurs an Employee s or Consultant s (i) commencement of Continuous Service or (ii) promotion, an Employee or Consultant may be granted Options for up to an additional 1,000,000 Shares or Restricted Stock,
Restricted Stock Units Performance Shares, Performance Units, SARs or Phantom Shares for up to an additional 200,000 shares in the aggregate, which shall not count against the limits set forth in the preceding sentence. The foregoing limitations
shall be adjusted proportionately in connection with any change in the Company s capitalization pursuant to Section 10, below. The value of all Awards denominated in U.S. dollars granted in any single calendar year to any Grantee shall not
exceed $7,000,000. For  
       
   -9-   

this purpose, the value of an Award denominated in U.S. dollars shall be determined on the date of grant without regard to any conditions imposed on the
Award. To the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code or the regulations thereunder, in applying the foregoing limitations with respect to a Grantee, if any Awards are canceled, the canceled Awards shall continue to count against the
maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to the Grantee. For this purpose, the repricing of the exercise price of an Option or SAR if such repricing is approved by the stockholders of the Company, shall be treated as the
cancellation of the existing Option or SAR and the grant of a new Option or SAR. If the vesting or receipt of Shares under the Award is deferred to a later date, any amount (whether denominated in Shares or U.S. dollars) paid in addition to the
original number of Shares subject to the Award (or the original dollar amount for an Award denominated in U.S. dollars) will not be treated as an increase in the number of Shares (or dollar amount) subject to the Award if the additional amount is
based either on a reasonable rate of interest or on one or more predetermined actual investments such that the amount payable by the Company at the later date will be based on the actual rate of return of a specific investment (including any
decrease as well as any increase in the value of an investment).      (h)  Early Exercise . The Award Agreement may, but
need not, include a provision whereby the Grantee may elect at any time while an Employee, Director or Consultant to exercise any part or all of the Award prior to full vesting of the Award. Any unvested Shares received pursuant to such exercise may
be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company or a Related Entity or to any other restriction the Administrator determines to be appropriate.      (i)  Term of Award . The term of each Award shall be the term stated in the Award Agreement, provided, however, that the term of an Award shall be no more than ten years from the date of grant thereof. However,
in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Grantee who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock representing more than 10% of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, the
term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be five years from the date of grant thereof or such shorter term as may be provided in the Award Agreement.      (j)  Transferability of Awards . Incentive Stock Options may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution
and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Grantee, only by the Grantee. Other Awards shall be transferable by will and by the laws of descent and distribution, and during the lifetime of the Grantee, such Awards shall be transferable, by gift
or pursuant to a domestic relations order, to members of the Grantee s Immediate Family to the extent and in the manner determined by the Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee may designate a beneficiary of the
Grantee s Award in the event of the Grantee s death on a beneficiary designation form provided by the Administrator.      (k)  Time of Granting Awards . The date of grant of an Award shall for all purposes be the date on which the Administrator makes the determination to grant such Award, or such later date as is determined by the Administrator.
     7.  Award Exercise or Purchase Price; Consideration and Taxes .      (a)  Exercise or Purchase Price . The exercise or purchase price, if any, for an Award shall be as follows:      (i) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option:      (A) granted to an Employee who, at the time of the grant of such Incentive Stock Option owns stock representing more than 10% of the
voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, the per Share exercise price shall be not less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant; or      (B) granted to any Employee other than an Employee described in the preceding paragraph, the per Share exercise price shall be not less
than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.         
   -10-   

(ii) In the case of a Nonstatutory Stock Option, the per Share exercise price shall be
not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.      (iii) In the case of a SAR, the exercise price
or the base amount on which the stock appreciation is calculated shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.      (iv) In the case of other Awards, the cash consideration (if any) payable for such Award or the underlying Shares shall be determined by the Administrator.      (v) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7(a), in the case of an Award issued pursuant to Section 6(d),
above, the exercise or purchase price for the Award shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the relevant instrument evidencing the agreement to issue such Award.      (b)  No Authority to Reprice . Without the consent of stockholders of the Company, no Award may be repriced, replaced, regranted
through cancellation, or modified (except as provided in Section 10) if the effect is to reduce the exercise or purchase price for the Shares underlying such Award. In addition, the replacement or substitution of one Award for another Award is
prohibited, absent stockholder consent, to the extent it has the effect of reducing the exercise or purchase price of the underlying Shares.      (c)  Consideration . Subject to Applicable Laws, the consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise, vesting or settlement of an Award, including the method of payment, shall be determined by
the Administrator (and, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, shall be determined at the time of grant). In addition to any other types of consideration the Administrator may determine, the Administrator is authorized to accept as consideration
for Shares issued under the Plan the following, provided that the portion of the consideration equal to the par value of the Shares must be paid in cash or other legal consideration permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law:      (i) cash;      (ii) check;      (iii) services rendered,      (iv) surrender of Shares or delivery of a properly executed form of attestation of ownership of Shares as the Administrator may require
(including withholding of Shares otherwise deliverable upon exercise of the Award) which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender, attestation or withholding equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Award shall
be exercised,      (v) with respect to Options, payment through a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which
the Grantee (A) shall provide instructions (either in writing or electronically) to a Company designated brokerage firm (or, with respect to Grantees subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act, a broker reasonably satisfactory to
the Company for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the Company s pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to effect the immediate sale of some or all of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company on the settlement
date sufficient funds to cover the aggregate exercise price payable for the purchased Shares and any applicable withholding taxes and (B) shall provide directives (either in writing or electronically) to the Company to deliver the certificates
for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm on the settlement date in order to complete the sale transaction; or      (vi) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment.      (d)  Taxes . The Company s obligation to
deliver Shares upon the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of an Award under the Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable income and employment tax withholding requirements. The Administrator may, in its discretion, provide
Grantees with the right to use shares of Common Stock in satisfaction of all or part of the Withholding Taxes to which such Grantees may become subject in connection with the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of those Awards. Such right may
be provided to any such holder in one or more of the following formats:      (i)  Stock Withholding : The election to have
the Company withhold, from the Shares otherwise issuable upon the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of such Award, a portion of those Shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed
one hundred percent (100%)) designated by such individual. The Shares so withheld shall reduce the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan.         
   -11-   

(ii)  Stock Delivery : The election to deliver to the Company, at the time of the
issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of such Award, shares of Common Stock previously acquired by such individual with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed one hundred percent
(100%)) designated by the individual. The shares of Common Stock so delivered shall neither reduce the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan nor be added to the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for
issuance under the Plan.      (iii)  Stock Sale : The election to make an immediate open-market sale of all or a portion of
the Shares actually issued in connection with the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of such Award and to have a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds applied automatically on the settlement date to the satisfaction of the applicable
Withholding Taxes.      In addition, the Administrator may structure one or more Awards so that a portion of the Shares
otherwise issuable under those Awards shall automatically be withheld by the Company in satisfaction of the Withholding Taxes which become applicable in connection with the issuance, exercise, vesting or settlement of those Awards.      8.  Exercise of Award .      (a)  Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder .      (i) Any Award granted hereunder shall be exercisable
at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator under the terms of the Plan and specified in the Award Agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, except with respect to a maximum of 5% of
the Shares authorized for issuance under Section 3(a), any Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units which vest on the basis of the Grantee s Continuous Service with the Company or a Related Entity shall not provide for vesting
which is any more rapid than annual pro rata vesting over a three-year period, and any Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units which provide for vesting upon the attainment of performance goals
shall provide for a performance period of at least 12 months; provided, however, that such limitations shall not apply in the event of a Change in Control or to any Grantee whose Continuous Service terminates by reason of his or her death,
disability or an involuntary termination other than for Cause.      (ii) An Award shall be deemed to be exercised when notice of
such exercise (either in writing or electronically) has been given to the Company or its designee in accordance with the terms of the Award by the person entitled to exercise the Award. Except to the extent the broker-dealer sale and remittance
procedure is to be utilized under Section 7(c)(iv), full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Award is exercised shall accompany such exercise notice.      (b)  Exercise of Award Following Termination of Continuous Active Service .      (i) An Award may not be exercised after the termination date of such Award set forth in the Award Agreement and may be exercised following
the termination of a Grantee s Continuous Service only to the extent provided in the Award Agreement.      (ii) Where the
Award Agreement permits a Grantee to exercise an Award following the termination of the Grantee s Continuous Service for a specified period, the Award shall terminate to the extent not exercised on the last day of the specified period or the
last day of the original term of the Award, whichever occurs first.         
   -12-   

(iii) Any Award designated as an Incentive Stock Option to the extent not exercised
within the time permitted by law for the exercise of Incentive Stock Options following the termination of Employee status shall convert automatically to a Nonstatutory Stock Option and thereafter shall be exercisable as such to the extent
exercisable by its terms for the period specified in the Award Agreement.      9.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares .      (a) Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise, vesting or settlement of an Award unless the exercise, vesting or settlement of
such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all Applicable Laws, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.      (b) As a condition to the issuance of any Shares in connection with the exercise, vesting or settlement of an Award, the Company may
require the person holding such Award to represent and warrant at the time of such issuance that the Shares are being acquired only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for
the Company, such a representation is required by any Applicable Laws.      10.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization . Should any
change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the
Company s receipt of consideration, or should the value of outstanding shares of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger,
consolidation or other reorganization, then equitable and proportional adjustments shall be made by the Administrator to the maximum number and class(es) of securities subject to the Plan pursuant to Section 3(a) and the maximum number and
class(es) of securities for which Awards may be made to any person during any calendar year pursuant to Section 6(g), and the outstanding Awards (other than an Award of Restricted Stock that is outstanding at the time of the event described in
this paragraph) will be equitably and proportionally adjusted as to the number and class(es)of securities and exercise price (or other cash consideration) payable per Share subject to such outstanding Awards, including any price required to be paid
for Restricted Stock not yet outstanding at the time of the event described in this paragraph; provided, however, that the aggregate exercise price (or other cash consideration) shall remain the same. The adjustments shall be made in such manner as
the Administrator deems appropriate in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of benefits under the Plan and the outstanding Awards thereunder, and such adjustments shall be final, binding and conclusive. In the event of a Change in Control,
however, the adjustments (if any) shall be made solely in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 11.      11.  Change in
Control .      (a)  Effect of Change in Control on Awards .      (i) In the event of a Change in Control, the Board at its sole discretion may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, provide for the
following treatment of outstanding Options and SARs: (i) any surviving corporation shall assume any Options or SARs outstanding under the Plan or shall substitute economically equivalent awards for the Options and SARs outstanding under the
Plan, (ii) the time during which such Options or SARs may be exercised shall be accelerated so that those Awards may be exercised for fully-vested Shares and those Awards shall terminate if not exercised prior to the Change in Control, or
(iii) such Options or SARs shall continue in full force and effect.      (ii) Any other Award outstanding under the Plan at
the time of the Change in Control may be assumed by the surviving corporation, replaced with an economically-equivalent substitute award or otherwise continued in full force in effect. To the extent any such Award is not assumed, replaced with an
economically-equivalent substitute award or otherwise continued in effect, that Award shall vest, and the shares of Common Stock subject to that Award shall be issued as fully-vested shares, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in
Control.         
   -13-   

(iii) Any Award which is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise
continued in effect shall be adjusted immediately after the consummation of that Change in Control so as to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to that Award immediately prior to the Change in
Control would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at that time, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the exercise price or any other consideration payable per share
thereunder, provided the aggregate exercise price or amount of such other consideration shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Company s outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in
consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the outstanding Awards and subject to the approval of the Administrator prior to the Change in Control, substitute one or more
shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction, provided such common stock is readily traded on an established U.S. securities
exchange or market.      (iv) The Administrator may structure one or more Awards so that the Shares subject to those Awards
shall vest (or shall vest and become issuable) immediately prior to the effective date of a Change in Control, whether or not those Awards are assumed, replaced with an economically-equivalent substitute award or otherwise continued in full force
and effect      (b)  Acceleration of Award Upon Cessation of Continuous Service In Connection With a Change in Control .
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if within the period beginning with the execution of the definitive agreement for a Change in Control transaction and ending with the earlier of (i) the termination of that
definitive agreement without the consummation of such Change in Control or (ii) the expiration of the Applicable Acceleration Period following the consummation of such Change in Control, either (1) the Continuous Service of an Employee or
a Consultant terminates due to an involuntary termination (not including death or Disability) without Cause (as such term is defined below) or a voluntary termination by the Grantee due to Constructive Termination (as such term is defined below) or
(2) the Continuous Service of a Director terminates, then the vesting and exercisability of all Awards held by such Grantee shall be accelerated, or any reacquisition or repurchase rights held by the Company with respect to an Award shall
lapse, as follows:       

With respect to Options and SARs held by a Grantee at the time of such termination, such Options and SARs shall become immediately exercisable as to all the
underlying Shares and may be exercised for any or all of those Shares as fully-vested shares until the expiration or sooner termination date of those Awards.          

With respect to all other Awards held by the Grantee at the time of such termination, the underlying Shares shall vest and become immediately issuable, and any
reacquisition or repurchase rights held by the Company with respect to those Shares shall lapse, as of the date of such termination.         (c)  Definition of  Cause  . For the purposes of Section 11(b) only,  Cause  means (i) conviction of, a guilty plea with respect to, or a plea of  non contendere  to a charge
that a Grantee has committed a felony under the laws of the United States or of any state or a crime involving moral turpitude, including, but not limited to, fraud, theft, embezzlement or any crime that results in or is intended to result in
personal enrichment at the expense of the Company or a Related Entity; (ii) material breach of any agreement entered into between the Grantee and the Company or a Related Entity that impairs the Company s or the Related Entity s
interest therein; (iii) willful misconduct, significant failure of the Grantee to perform the Grantee s duties, or gross neglect by the Grantee of the Grantee s duties; or (iv) engagement in any activity that constitutes a
material conflict of interest with the Company or a Related Entity.      (d)  Definition of  Constructive
Termination  . For purposes of Section 11(b) only,  Constructive Termination  means the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions: (i) (A) a change in the Grantee s status, title, position or
responsibilities (including reporting responsibilities) which represents an adverse change from the Grantee s status, title, position or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the execution of the definitive agreement for the Change
in Control transaction or at any time within the Applicable Acceleration Period after the date of a Change in Control; (B) the assignment to the Grantee of any duties or responsibilities which are inconsistent with the Grantee s status,
title, position or responsibilities as in effect  
       
   -14-   

immediately prior to the execution of the definitive agreement for the Change in Control transaction or at any time within the Applicable Acceleration Period
after the Change in Control; or (C) any removal of the Grantee from or failure to reappoint or reelect the Grantee to any of the offices or positions held by the Grantee immediately prior to the execution of the definitive agreement for the
Change in Control transaction or at any time within the Applicable Acceleration Period after the date of a Change in Control, except in connection with the termination of the Grantee s Continuous Service for Cause, as a result of the
Grantee s Disability or death or by the Grantee other than as a result of Constructive Termination; (ii) a reduction in the Grantee s annual base compensation or any failure to pay the Grantee any compensation or benefits to which the
Grantee is entitled within five days of the date due; (iii) the Company s requiring the Grantee to relocate to any place outside a 50 mile radius of the location serving as Grantee s principal work site immediately prior to the
execution of the definitive agreement for the Change in Control transaction or during the Applicable Acceleration Period after the date of a Change in Control, except for reasonably required travel on the business of the Company or a Related Entity
which is not materially greater than such travel requirements in effect during the applicable measurement period determined above; (iv) the failure by the Company to (A) continue in effect (without reduction in benefit level and/or reward
opportunities) any material compensation or employee benefit plan in which the Grantee was participating at any time within the 90-day period immediately prior to the execution of the definitive agreement for the Change in Control transaction or at
any time within the Applicable Acceleration Period after the Change in Control, unless such plan is replaced with a plan that provides substantially equivalent compensation or benefits to the Grantee, or (B) provide the Grantee with
compensation and benefits, in the aggregate, at least equal (in terms of benefit levels and/or reward opportunities) to those provided the Grantee under each other employee benefit plan, program and practice in which he or she was participating at
any time within the 90-day period immediately prior to the execution of the definitive agreement for the Change in Control transaction or at any within the Applicable Acceleration Period after the Change in Control; (v) any material breach by
the Company of any provision of an agreement between the Company and the Grantee, whether pursuant to this Plan or otherwise, other than a breach which is cured by the Company within 15 days following notice by the Grantee of such breach; or
(vi) the failure of the Company to obtain an agreement, satisfactory to the Grantee, from any successors and assigns to assume and agree to perform the obligations created under this Plan.      (e)  Effect of Acceleration on Incentive Stock Options . Any Incentive Stock Option accelerated under this Section 11 in
connection with a Change in Control shall remain exercisable as an Incentive Stock Option under the Code only to the extent the $100,000 dollar limitation of Section 422(d) of the Code is not exceeded. To the extent such dollar limitation is
exceeded, the excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.      12.  Effective Date and Term of Plan . The Plan shall
become effective upon its approval by the stockholders of the Company. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten years unless sooner terminated. Subject to Applicable Laws, Awards may be granted under the Plan upon its becoming effective.
     13.  Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan .      (a) The Board may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no such amendment shall be made without the
approval of the Company s stockholders to the extent such approval is required by NASD Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1)(A), Section 422 of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any other Applicable Laws, or if such amendment would
change any of the provisions of Section 4(b)(vi) or this Section 13(a).      (b) No Award may be granted during any
suspension of the Plan or after termination of the Plan.      (c) No suspension or termination of the Plan (including
termination of the Plan under Section 12, above) shall adversely affect any rights under Awards already granted to a Grantee.      14.
 Reservation of Shares .      (a) The Company, during the term of the Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available
such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.         
   -15-   

(b) The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having
jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company s counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to
which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.      15.  No Effect on Terms of Employment/Consulting Relationship . The Plan
shall not confer upon any Grantee any right with respect to the Grantee s Continuous Service, nor shall it interfere in any way with his or her right or the right of the Company or any Related Entity to terminate the Grantee s Continuous
Service at any time, with or without Cause, and with or without notice. The ability of the Company or any Related Entity to terminate the employment of a Grantee who is employed at will is in no way affected by its determination that the
Grantee s Continuous Service has been terminated for Cause for the purposes of this Plan.      16.  No Effect on Retirement and Other
Benefit Plans . Except as specifically provided in a retirement or other benefit plan of the Company or a Related Entity, Awards shall not be deemed compensation for purposes of computing benefits or contributions under any retirement plan of the
Company or a Related Entity, and shall not affect any benefits under any other benefit plan of any kind or any benefit plan subsequently instituted under which the availability or amount of benefits is related to level of compensation. The Plan is
not a  Pension Plan  or  Welfare Plan  under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.      17.
 Unfunded Obligation . Grantees shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company. Any amounts payable to Grantees pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without
limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Neither the Company nor any Related Entity shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special
accounts with respect to such obligations. The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder. Any investments or the
creation or maintenance of any trust or any Grantee account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Administrator, the Company or any Related Entity and a Grantee, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial
interest in any Grantee or the Grantee s creditors in any assets of the Company or a Related Entity. The Grantees shall have no claim against the Company or any Related Entity for any changes in the value of any assets that may be invested or
reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.      18.  Governing Law . The Plan and all agreements thereunder shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without resort to that State s conflict-of-law provisions.      19.
 Section 409A Compliance . The Board reserves the right, to the extent it deems it necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to alter or modify the Plan and any outstanding Awards under the Plan, without the consent of the Grantees,
so as to ensure that all Awards and Award Agreements provided to Grantees who are subject to U.S. income taxation either qualify for an exemption from the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or are structured in a manner that complies with
those requirements; provided, however, that neither the Company nor any Related Entity makes any representations that any Awards made under the Plan will in fact be exempt from the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or otherwise comply
with those requirements, and each Grantee shall accordingly be solely responsible for any taxes, penalties or other amounts which may become payable with respect to his or her Awards by reason of Section 409A of the Code.         
   -16-   

</EX-10.59>

<EX-10.60>
 4
 dex1060.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. 2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.60        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED OCTOBER 22, 2007        AND SUBSEQUENTLY AMENDED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

i   

A TTACHMENT  A P LAN  I NVESTMENT  O PTIONS          
   ii   

1.   
   H ISTORY  O F  T HE  P LAN .          1.1 Successor Plan.  The Plan is the successor plan to the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2002, as amended (the  Prior Plan ). Effective as of
December 31, 2004, the Prior Plan was frozen, and no new contributions were permitted to be made to it;   provided, however,   that any deferrals made under the Prior Plan before January 1, 2005 will continue to be governed by
the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004. Any deferrals made under the Prior Plan after December 31, 2004 will be deemed to have been made under this Plan, and all such deferrals will accordingly be
governed by the terms and conditions of this Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.       1.2 Restatement . The purpose of this
October 22, 2007 restatement, as subsequently amended effective January 1, 2008, is to evidence the documentary compliance of the Plan, effective retroactive to January 1, 2005, with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code, the Treasury Regulations issued under Section 409A and the interim guidance provided by the Internal Revenue and the Treasury Department prior to the publication of the final Section 409A Regulations.   

2.   
   P URPOSE  O F  T HE  P LAN .          2.1 Plan Purpose.  The Employer maintains the Plan, a deferred compensation plan, for the benefit of (i) a select group of management and other highly compensated employees of the Employer and (ii) the
non-employee members of the Employer s Board of Directors. Each other Participating Employer will also maintain the Plan as a deferred compensation plan for the benefit of a select group of its management personnel and other highly compensated
employees. The Participating Employers intend that the existence of the Trust will not alter the characterization of the Plan as  unfunded  for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ), and will not be deemed to provide income to Participants under the Plan prior to the actual payment of their vested accrued benefits hereunder. The Participating Employers intend that the Plan comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.       

3.   
   E FFECTIVE  D ATE  O F  T HE  P LAN .          3.1 Effective Date.  The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 2005, except as otherwise noted herein.       

4.   
   D EFINITIONS .          4.1 Definitions.
       (a)  Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is
clearly required by the context:       (1)   Account  means an account established on the books of the Employer
for the purpose of recording amounts credited on behalf of a Participant pursuant to his or her Deferral Elections under the Plan and any income, expenses, gains or losses attributable to the deemed investment of such account in one or more of the
Investment Funds.         
   1   

(2)   Administrator  means the Employer adopting the Plan, or other
person designated by the Employer.       (3)     Affiliated Company    means (i) the Employer and
(ii) and each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Employer, as determined in accordance with Section 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.
      (4)   Annual Retainer  means the annual retainer fee payable to an Eligible Director.       (5)   Beneficiary  means the person or persons entitled under Section 10.1 to receive benefits under the Plan upon
the death of a Participant.       (6)   Board  means the Board of Directors of the Employer, as constituted from
time to time.       (7)   Bonus  means the bonus payable to an Eligible Employee pursuant to the Employer s
corporate bonus program.       (8)   Change of Control  will be deemed, consistent with Section 409A of the
Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder, to occur on the date that:       (A)  any one person, or more than
one person acting as a group (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), acquires ownership of stock of the Employer, that together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of
the total fair market value or total voting power of the outstanding stock of the Employer;   provided, however,   that if any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, is considered to own more than fifty percent
(50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the outstanding stock of the Employer, the acquisition of additional Employer stock by the same person or persons is not considered a Change of Control; or       (B)  any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined in Treasury Regulation
Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), acquires (or has acquired during the twelve-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) assets from the Employer that have a total  gross fair market value 
(as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii)(A)) equal to forty percent (40%) or more of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Employer immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions; or
        
   2   

(C)  any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined in
Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), acquires (or has acquired during the twelve-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) ownership of stock of the Employer possessing thirty percent
(30%) or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Employer; or       (D)  a majority of the members of the
Board is replaced during any twelve-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of such appointment or election;   provided, however,   that for
purposes of this subparagraph (D), no Change of Control will be deemed to have occurred if any other corporation is a majority stockholder of the Employer.       (9)   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.       (10)   Compensation  means Salary, Bonus and Annual Retainer. Compensation will not include, among other items, employee referral awards or severance payments. In addition, a Participant s Compensation shall not, for
purposes of the Plan, include any item of compensation earned for a period of service rendered prior to the effective date of the Deferral Election filed by the Participant with respect to that item.       (11)   Deferral Election  means the irrevocable election filed by the Participant under Article V of the Plan pursuant to
which a portion of his or her Compensation for the Plan Year is to be deferred in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.       (12)   Eligible Director  means a non-employee member of the Board.       (13)   Eligible
Employee  means any Employee who is either a highly compensated employee of the Employer or other Participating Employer or part of its management personnel, as determined pursuant to guidelines established by the Administrator form time to
time.       (14)     Employee  means any person in the employ of one or more members of the Employer Group,
subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.       (15)   Employer  means Gilead Sciences, Inc.       (16)   Employer
Group  means (i) the Employer and (ii) each of the other members of the controlled group of corporations that includes the Employer, as determined in accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code, except that in applying
Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) for purposes of determining the controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the
latter phrase appears in such sections and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase  at least
50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in Section 1.4.14(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations.         
   3   

(17)   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended from time to time.       (18)   Extended Deferral Election  means a Participant s election, made
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Section 9.2 of the Plan, to defer the distribution of his or her Account for an additional period of at least five (5) years measured from the date or event on which that Account was scheduled
to first become due and payable under the Plan.       (19)   Identification Date  means each December 31.
      (20)   Investment Fund  means any actual investment fund which serves as the measure of the notional
investment return on all or any portion of an Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.       (21) 
 Investment Fund Share  means the share, unit, or other evidence of ownership in a designated Investment Fund.       (22)   Participant  means any Eligible Employee or Eligible Director who participates in the Plan through one or more Deferral Elections under Article V.       (23)   Participating Employer  means the Employer and any other Affiliated Company which has, with the consent of the
Administrator, adopted this Plan as a deferred compensation program for one or more of its Eligible Employees.       (24) 
 Phantom Shares  mean an award denominated in shares of the Employer s common stock pursuant to which the award holder has the right to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of shares of the Employer s common
stock at a designated time or over a designated period and which will be payable in cash or such shares, as determined by the administrator of the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Phantom Shares shall be a form of deemed investment
under the Plan only with respect to the Annual Retainers deferred hereunder by Eligible Directors.       (25) 
 Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan, as set forth in this document and as subsequently amended from time to time.       (26)   Plan Year  means the calendar year.       (27)   Prior Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as in effect as of December 31, 2004.
No additional Compensation may be deferred under the Prior Plan after December 31, 2004.       (28) 
 Salary  means an Eligible Employee s base salary.       (29)   Separation from Service  means,
for a Participant who is an Employee, such individual s cessation of Employee status by reason of his or her death, retirement or termination of employment. Such Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment at such time as the
level of his or her bona fide services to be performed as an  
       
   4   

Employee (or non-employee consultant or contractor) permanently decreases to a level that is not more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of
services he or she rendered as an Employee during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or such shorter period for which he or she may have rendered such service). For an Eligible Director, a Separation from Service shall be deemed
to occur when such individual ceases to serve as a Board member. Any determination as to Separation from Service, however, shall be made in accordance with the applicable standards of the Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A. In
addition to the foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred while an Employee is on military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or any
longer period for which such Employee s right to reemployment with the Employer is provided either by statute or contract;   provided, however,   that in the event of an Employee s leave of absence due to any medically
determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes such individual to be unable to perform his or her duties as an Employee, no
Separation from Service shall be deemed to occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated above) and the
Employee s right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or contract, then such Employee will be deemed to have Separated from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of such six (6)-month or twenty-nine
(29)-month period.       (30)   Specified Employee  means an Eligible Employee who, at any time during the twelve
(12)-month period ending on the applicable Identification Date, is:       (A)  an officer of the Employer having aggregate
annual compensation from the Employer and/or one or more other Affiliated Companies greater than the compensation limit in effect at the time under Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i) of the Code, provided that no more than fifty officers of the Employer
shall be determined to be Key Employees as of any Identification Date;       (B)  a five percent owner of the Employer or
any other Affiliated Company ; or       (C)  a one percent owner of the Employer or any other Affiliated Company who has
aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or more other Affiliated Companies of more than $150,000.      The determination of
such Specified Employees shall be in accordance with the applicable standards and requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. If an Eligible Employee is identified as a Specified Key Employee on a
Identification Date, then such Eligible Employee shall be considered a Specified Employee for purposes of the Plan during the period beginning on the first April 1 following the Identification Date and ending on the next March 31.
      (31)   Trust  means the trust created by the Employer.         
   5   

(32)   Trust Agreement  means the agreement between the Employer and the
Trustee, as set forth in a separate agreement, under which assets are held, administered, and managed subject to the claims of the Employer s creditors in the event of the Employer s insolvency, until paid to the Participants and their
Beneficiaries as specified in the Plan.       (33)   Trust Fund  means the property held in the Trust by the
Trustee.       (34)   Trustee  means the corporation or individuals appointed by the Employer to administer the
Trust in accordance with the Trust Agreement.       (35)   Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial
hardship to the Participant resulting from:       (A)  An illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s
spouse or Beneficiary or the Participant s dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code); or       (B) 
Loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to the home not otherwise covered by insurance); or       (C)  Other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the
Participant.      Financial hardship shall not constitute an Unforeseeable Emergency under the Plan to the extent that it is, or may be,
relieved by (i) reimbursement or compensation, by insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation of the Participant s assets to the extent that the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or
(iii) cessation of deferrals under the Plan.       (b)  Pronouns used in the Plan are in the masculine gender but
include the feminine gender unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.       

5.   
   E LIGIBILITY ; P ARTICIPATION .          5.1   Eligibility.  The Administrator (acting through an authorized committee of one or more officers or other senior executives) shall have absolute discretion in selecting the Eligible Employees who are to participate in the
Plan for each Plan Year. An Eligible Employee selected for participation for any Plan Year must, in order to participate in the Plan for that year, file a timely Deferral Election in accordance with the requirements of Section 6.1. An Eligible
Employee who is first selected for participation in the Plan after the start of a Plan Year and who has not otherwise been eligible for participation in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and
maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies may file a Deferral Election for that Plan Year in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.1. Until such time as the Administrator implements a new policy, any selection of new
Participants after the start of the Plan Year will be limited to the first business day of April of that Plan Year. Individuals who are selected for participation in the Plan, whether before or after  
       
   6   

the start of the Plan Year, shall be promptly notified by their Participating Employer of their eligibility to participate in the Plan. Eligible Directors
shall automatically be eligible to participate in the Plan during their period of service in such capacity, and their Deferral Elections shall be subject to the same requirements set forth above for Employee Participants.       5.2   Continuation of Participation . Every Eligible Employee who becomes a Participant may continue to file Deferral Elections under the Plan
for one or more subsequent Plan Years until the   earliest   of (i) his or her exclusion from the Plan upon written notice from the Administrator, (ii) his or her cessation of Eligible Employee status or (iii) the
termination of the Plan. The Administrator shall have complete discretion to exclude one or more Eligible Employees from Participant status for one or more Plan Years as the Administrator deems appropriate, including the entire period the
Participant continues in Eligible Employee status following such exclusion. However, no such exclusion authorized by the Administrator shall become effective until the first day of the first Plan Year coincident with or next following the date of
the Administrator s determination to exclude the individual from such participation. If any Eligible Employee is excluded from Participant status for one or more Plan Years, then such individual shall not be entitled to defer any part of his or
her Compensation for those Plan Years.       5.3   Resumption of Participation Following Separation from Service.  If a Participant
ceases to be an Eligible Employee or an Eligible Director due to a Separation from Service and thereafter returns to service with the Employer, such individual will again become a Participant as of the first day of the first Plan Year coincident
with or next following the date on which he or she resumes Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status, provided such individual files a timely a Deferral Election pursuant to Section 6.1 with respect to that Plan Year. However, a Participant
who returns to Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status after a Separation from Service of more than twenty-four (24) months during which he or she was not eligible to defer any Compensation under this Plan or any other any other
non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies shall, following resumption of such service, be permitted to make a Deferral Election under Section 6.1 in
accordance with the requirements applicable to a newly-selected Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.3, no returning Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan if the Administrator
determines to exclude such individual from participation on or before his or her resumption of service.       5.4   Cessation or
Resumption of Participation Following a Change in Status.  If any Participant continues in the service of the Employer Group but ceases to be an Eligible Employee or Eligible Director, the individual will continue to be a Participant until the
entire amount of his or her Account balance is distributed. However, the individual will not be entitled to make any Deferral Elections with respect to Compensation earned for the period that he is not an Eligible Employee or Eligible Director. In
the event that the individual subsequently resumes Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status, he or she will again become a Participant as of the first day the first Plan Year coincident with or next following the date of his or her resumption
of Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status, provided such individual files a timely a Deferral Election pursuant to Section 6.1 with respect to that Plan Year. However, an Eligible Employee shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan
upon his or her resumption of Eligible Employee status if the Administrator determines to exclude such individual from participation on or before resumption of such status.         
   7   

6.   
   D EFERRAL  A ND  D ISTRIBUTION  E LECTIONS .          6.1   Deferral Elections for Employee Participants.  Each Eligible Employee selected for participation shall have the right to file a Deferral
Election with respect to the Salary and/or Bonus to be earned by such Participant for service as an Eligible Employee during the Plan Year for which the Deferral Election is made. Each Deferral Election must be made by a written or electronic notice
filed with the Administrator or its designate in which the Participant shall indicate the percentage of Salary and/or Bonus to be deferred in accordance with the applicable percentage limitations set forth in Section 6.5. The notice must be
filed on or before the expiration date of the enrollment period designated by the Administrator for the Plan Year for which the Deferral Election is to be effective, but in no event shall the Administrator allow any Deferral Election to be filed
later than the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the start of the Plan Year for which the Salary and/or Bonus subject to that election are to be earned. However, the following special rules shall be in effect for Deferral
Elections:       (A)  The Administrator may allow a Deferral Election with respect to a Bonus which qualifies as
performance-based compensation in accordance with the standards and requirements set forth in Section 1.409A-1(e) of the Treasury Regulations to be made by a Participant after the start of the Plan Year (or other performance period) to which
that Bonus pertains but not later than by a designated date that is at least six (6) months prior to the end of that Plan Year (or any longer performance period in effect for that Bonus).       (B)  An Eligible Employee who is first selected for participation in the Plan after the start of a Plan Year and who has not
otherwise been eligible for participation in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies must file his or her initial Deferral Election no later than
thirty (30) days after the date he or she is so selected. Such Deferral Election shall only be effective as follows:       

with respect to Salary, such election shall be effective only for the portion attributable to Employee service for the period commencing with the first day of the
first calendar month coincident with or next following the filing of such Deferral Election and ending with the close of such Plan Year, and          

with respect to any Bonus, such election shall be effective only for the portion thereof determined by multiplying the dollar amount of such Bonus by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of days remaining in the performance period applicable to that Bonus following the close of the calendar month in which the Participant s Deferral Election as to such Bonus is filed and the denominator of
which is the total number of days in that performance period;   provided, however,   that in the event any such Bonus qualifies as performance-based compensation, then the provisions of Subsection 6.1(A) shall also be applicable in
determining the amount of such Bonus that may be deferred.            
   8   

6.2 Deferral Elections for Eligible Directors.        (a)  Each Eligible Director shall have the right to file a Deferral Election with respect to the Annual Retainer to be earned by
such Participant for service as an Eligible Director for the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the first day of July each Plan Year and ending on the last day of June in the succeeding Plan Year (the  Fee Period ). Each Deferral
Election must be made by a written or electronic notice filed with the Administrator or its designee in which the Participant shall indicate the percentage of the Annual Retainer for the Fee Period to be deferred in accordance with the percentage
limitations set forth in Section 6.5. The notice must be filed on or before the expiration date of the enrollment period designated by the Administrator for the Fee Period for which the Deferral Election is to be effective, but in no event
later shall the Administrator allow any Deferral Election to be filed later than the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Fee Period subject to that election will begin. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Deferral Election filed prior to the start of the 2008 Plan Year shall cover only the six (6)-month period beginning July 1, 2008 and ending December 31, 2008.       (b)  An individual who first becomes an Eligible Director after the start of a Plan Year and who has not otherwise been eligible for
participation in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies must file his or her initial Deferral Election no later than thirty (30) days after the
date he or she is appointed or elected as an Eligible Director. Such Deferral Election shall only be effective with respect to the portion of the Annual Retainer attributable to Eligible Director service for the period commencing with the first day
of the first calendar month following the filing of such Deferral Election and ending on the last day of the Fee Period to which that Annual Retainer pertains.       6.3   Subsequent Elections.  After an initial Deferral Election is made, a new Deferral Election must be made prior to each subsequent Plan Year in order for a Participant to continue participation in the
Plan for that Plan Year. Each such subsequent Deferral Election shall be effective on the first day of the Plan Year following the Plan Year in which the election is made.       6.4   Additional Provisions.  The Deferral Election for an upcoming Plan Year shall become irrevocable upon the expiration date of the
enrollment period designated for that Plan Year, but in no event later than the last day of the immediately preceding Plan Year (or the last date on which the Deferral Election for the Plan Year may be filed under Section 6.1 or 6.2 by a
newly-eligible Participant), and no subsequent changes may be made to that Deferral Election once it becomes irrevocable. The Account maintained on behalf of each Participant will be credited with the corresponding amount of Compensation deferred by
that Participant, as and when that Compensation would have otherwise become payable in the absence of his or her Deferral Election. Under no circumstances may a Deferral Election be made retroactively.         
   9   

6.5 Deferral Percentages.        (a)  The minimum deferral per Plan Year will be determined by the Administrator.       (b)  A Participant who is an Eligible Employee may elect to defer (less any tax withholding requirements) up to 70% of Salary and up
to 100% of Bonus in any whole multiple of 1%.       (c)  A Participant who is an Eligible Director may elect to defer up to
100%, in any whole multiple of 1%, of the Annual Retainer for the Fee Period.       (d)  A Participant who is an Eligible
Employee must also make satisfactory arrangements with his or her Participating Employer to assure the prompt collection of all withholding taxes applicable to the Compensation he or she elects to defer under the Plan.       6.6   Special Elections in 2005 regarding Deferrals.  In accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1, Q A-20, on or before March 15, 2005,
Eligible Employees were permitted to make a Deferral Election with respect to the Bonus earned for the 2004 Plan Year. Deferral Elections made pursuant to this Section 6.6 are irrevocable and subject to any special administrative rules imposed
by the Administrator consistent with Section 409A of the Code and Notice 2005-1, Q A-20. No special election under this Section 6.6 will be permitted after March 15, 2005.       6.7 Phantom Share Program for Directors.  Eligible Directors may, as part of their Deferral Election, elect to have the Annual Retainer subject to
that election deferred in the form of fully vested Phantom Shares issued under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. In the event of such election, the conversion of the deferred Annual Retainer (or the deferred portion thereof) into
such Phantom Shares shall be effected on the first day of the Fee Period to which the deferred Annual Retainer relates. At the time of distribution, the Phantom Shares shall be converted into actual shares of Gilead Sciences, Inc. common stock or
the cash value equivalent thereof, as determined by the administrator of the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan.          6.8   Distribution Election.  The initial Deferral Election made by a Participant under this Section 6 must include an election as to the time and form of payment of all Compensation deferred by that Participant under the
Plan, including the Compensation deferred pursuant to that initial election and all Compensation deferred pursuant to one or more subsequent Deferral Elections. The permissible distribution events or triggers are as follow:       (a)  A Participant may elect to receive a distribution or commence distributions from his or her Account pursuant to Section 9
upon the attainment of one of the following ages: 75, 70, 65, 60, 55 and 50.       (b)  Alternatively, a Participant may
elect to receive a distribution or commence distributions from his or her Account pursuant to Section 9 either (i) five years following the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, (ii) two years following the date of
such Separation from Service or (iii) subject to Section 9.4, immediately following the date of such Separation from Service.         
   10   

6.9   Special Distribution Election in 2006.  Participants may make a special distribution
election to change the time and form of the distribution of their Account, provided that the distribution election is made at least twelve months in advance of the newly elected distribution date and the previously scheduled distribution date and
the election is made no later than December 31, 2006. An election made pursuant to this Section 6.9 shall be treated as an initial distribution election and shall be subject to any special administrative rules imposed by the Administrator
including rules intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and Notice 2005-1, Q A-19. No election under this Section 6.9 shall (i) change the payment date of any distribution otherwise scheduled to be paid in 2006 or cause a
payment to be made in 2006 that was otherwise scheduled for payment in a later year or (ii) be permitted after December 31, 2006.       6.10   Special Distribution Election in 2007.  Participants may make a special distribution election to change the time and form of the distribution of their Account, provided that the distribution election is made at least
twelve months in advance of the newly elected distribution date and the previously scheduled distribution date and the election is made no later than December 31, 2007. An election made pursuant to this Section 6.10 shall be treated as an
initial distribution election and shall be subject to any special administrative rules imposed by the Administrator, including rules intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. No election under this Section 6.10 shall
(i) change the payment date of any distribution otherwise scheduled to be paid in 2007 or cause a payment to be made in 2007 that was otherwise scheduled for payment in a later year or (ii) be permitted after December 31, 2007.
      6.11   Election Form.  All Deferral Elections under this Section 6 will be made in a manner prescribed for these purposes
by the Administrator.       6.12 Time of Making Employer Contributions.  The Employer may from time to time make a transfer of assets to
the Trustee for a Plan Year. The Employer will provide the Trustee with information on the amount to be credited to the separate account of each Participant maintained under the Trust.       

7.   
   P ARTICIPANT  A CCOUNTS .          7.1   Individual Accounts.  An Account shall be established and maintained for each Participant which shall reflect the deferred Compensation credited to the Account on behalf of the Participant and the earnings, expenses, gains
and losses attributable to the deemed investment of that Account pursuant to Section 8 The Employer shall establish and maintain such other accounts and records as it decides in its discretion to be reasonably required or appropriate in order
to discharge its duties under the Plan. Participants will at all times be 100% vested in their Accounts. Participants will be furnished statements of their Account values at least once each Plan Year.       

8.   
   I NVESTMENT  O F  C ONTRIBUTIONS .          8.1   Available Investment Funds.  The Administrator (acting through an authorized committee of one or more officers or other senior executives) shall have absolute discretion to select the available
Investments Funds which Participants may choose as the measure of the  
       
   11   

notional investment return on their Accounts in accordance with Section 8.2 The available Investment Funds shall be set forth in Attachment A, as
amended from time to time;   provided, however  , that Eligible Directors who participate in the Plan may also direct the investment of their Accounts in Phantom Shares. All amounts credited to Participant Accounts shall be treated as
though invested and reinvested only in those available Investment Funds.       8.2   Investment Directives.  Investments in which a
Participant s Account shall be treated as invested and reinvested as directed by the Participant. All dividends, interest, gains, losses and distributions of any nature earned with respect to the Investment Fund Shares in which the Account is
deemed invested shall be credited to the Account as though reinvested in additional shares of that Investment Fund. Expenses attributable to the acquisition of investments that mirror the deemed investments in a Participant s Account shall be
charged to that Account.       8.3   Changes to Investment Funds.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8.3, the
available Investment Funds set forth in Attachment A shall include the same investment funds selected by the Company s Benefits Committee (the  Benefits Committee ) as available investment choices for participants in the
Company s 401(k) Savings Plan (the  Savings Plan ). Notwithstanding the forgoing, should any investment fund selected by the Benefits Committee for inclusion as an available investment fund under the Savings Plan not be available for
Participants in this Plan, then Administrator (acting through an authorized committee of one or more officers or other senior executives) shall have the authority to select an alternative investment option that is substantially similar to the
unavailable investment fund. In all cases, the available investment funds under the Plan shall automatically change from time to time to reflect any changes made to the available investment funds under the Savings Plan, with such changes to become
effective as of the same date and time as the corresponding changes are made to the available investment funds under the Saving Plan without the need for formal amendment under this Plan. Attachment A shall be updated from time to time to reflect
such changes in investment options, and the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or his or her authorized delegate) shall have the authority to execute documents and provide instruction to the Plan s service providers with respect to the
selection or modification of the Investment Funds made available from time to time under the Plan. The foregoing provisions of this Section 8.3 shall not apply to the Phantom Shares in which Eligible Directors may elect to invest their
Accounts.       

9.   
   D ISTRIBUTION  O F  B ENEFITS .          9.1 Distribution of Benefits to Participants.        (a)  Except as otherwise
provided in Section 9.1(c), distributions under the Plan will be made in a cash lump sum or under a systematic withdrawal plan over a period not exceeding ten years. Such form of distribution shall be determined in accordance with Sections 9.2
and 9.3.       (b)  Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.1(c), distributions under a systematic withdrawal plan
must be made in annual installments, in cash, over a period certain which does not extend for more than ten years. A systematic withdrawal plan may include a plan whereby one installment is elected. For purposes of the Plan, installment payments
shall be treated as a single aggregate distribution under Section 409A of the Code, and not as a series of individual installment payments.         
   12   

(c)  Notwithstanding Sections 9.1(a) and (b), distributions under the Plan to
Eligible Directors may, at the Participant s election, be distributed in shares of the Employer s common stock issuable under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Distributions of such common stock may be in a lump sum or
under a systematic withdrawal plan, as determined in accordance with Section 9.2 and 9.3.       9.2   Determination of Timing and
Method of Distribution.  The Participant shall elect the timing and method of distribution for his or her Account. Such election shall be made at the time the Participant makes his or her initial Deferral Election, or in accordance with
Section 6.9 or 6.10 (as applicable), and will apply to all amounts credited to the Participant s Account. Effective as of January 1, 2008, a Participant may make an Extended Deferral Election by submitting a completed and executed
election form approved by the Administrator for such purpose;   provided, however,   that such Extended Deferral Election must be made at least twelve (12) months prior to the date the Participant s Account is otherwise scheduled
to become payable pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 6 and the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, and such Extended Deferral Election shall in no event become effective or otherwise have any force or applicability until
the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date such election is filed with the Administrator. Accordingly, the Extended Deferral Election shall become null and void if the pre-existing specified commencement date or event for
the distribution of the Participant s Account occurs within that twelve (12)-month period. The Extended Deferral Election must specify a commencement date in a Plan Year that is at least five (5) Plan Years later than the Plan Year in
which the distribution of the Participant s Account would have otherwise been made or commenced in the absence of the Extended Deferral Election. As part of the Extended Deferral Election, the Participant may also elect a different method of
distribution, provided the selected method complies with one of the methods of distribution permissible for that Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. Once the Extended Deferral Election becomes effective in accordance with the
foregoing provisions of this Section 9.2, such election shall remain in effect, whether or not the Participant continues in Employee status;   provided, however,   that in the event of the Participant s death, the provisions of
Section 10.1 shall apply. A Participant may make only one Extended Deferral Election pursuant to this Section 9.2.       9.3
  Default Distribution Election.  If the Participant does not elect the method of distribution, the method of distribution will be a lump sum cash payment. Subject to Section 9.4 below, if the Participant does not elect the timing of
the distribution, the Participant s Account balance will be distributed upon his or her Separation from Service.       9.4
  Delayed Distribution to Specified Employees.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 9, a distribution made to a Participant who is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her Separation from Service will be delayed
for a minimum period of six months if the Participant s distribution is triggered by such Separation from Service. Any payment that otherwise would have been made pursuant to this Section 9 during such period will be made in one lump sum
payment not later than the last day of the eight month following the  
       
   13   

month in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The determination of which Participants are Key Employees will be made by the
Administrator in accordance with Section 4.1(a)(21) of the Plan and Sections 416(i) and 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.       9.5   Unforeseeable Emergency.  Upon application by a Participant in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Administrator may its sole discretion authorize payment of all or part of the
Participant s Account in one lump sum payment no later than the last day of the second month following the month in which the distribution is approved by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have complete discretion to accept or reject
the request and shall in no event authorize a distribution from the Participant s Account in an amount in excess of that reasonably required to meet such financial hardship and the tax liability attributable to that distribution. The minimum
amount of a distribution due to a Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency will be $1,000.00.       9.6   Prohibition on
Acceleration.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no distribution will be made from the Plan that would constitute an impermissible acceleration of payment as defined in Section 409A(a)(3) of the Code and the
Treasury Regulations thereunder. However, the following mandatory distributions shall be made under the Plan:       (a)  If
the aggregate balance of the Participant s Account is not greater than the applicable dollar amount in effect under Code Section 401(g)(1)(B) at the time of the Participant s Separation from Service and the Participant is not
otherwise at that time participating in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies, then that balance shall be distributed to the Participant in a lump
sum distribution as soon as administratively practical following such Separation from Service, whether or not the Participant elected that form of distribution or distribution event, but in no event later than the   later   of (i) the
end of the calendar year in which such Separation from Service occurs or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of such Separation from Service, except to the extent a further deferral is
required to comply with the delayed distribution requirements set forth in Section 9.4.       (b)  Should the
aggregate present value of all of the remaining unpaid installments due to a Participant who is receiving an installment distribution of his or her Account under the Plan fall below Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000), then those unpaid installments
shall be paid to the Participant in a single lump sum within thirty (30) days thereafter.       9.7   Adjustment for Investment
Experience.  If any distribution under this Section 9 is not made in a single lump sum payment, the amount remaining in the Account after the first installment payment will be subject to adjustment (until distributed) to reflect the income
and gain or loss on the investments in which such Account is deemed invested pursuant to Section 8 and any expenses properly charged under the Plan and Trust to such Account.         
   14   

9.8 Notice to Trustee.  The Administrator will notify the Trustee in writing whenever any
Participant or Beneficiary is entitled to receive benefits under the Plan. The Administrator s notice will indicate the form, amount and frequency of benefits that such Participant or Beneficiary will receive.         9.9   Time of Distribution.  Except as provided in Section 9.4, in no event shall a distribution to a Participant be made or commence
later than:       

the last day of the second month following the month in which the Participant attains the elected age specified in his or her initial Deferral Election (or any
distribution election under Section 6.8 or 6.9), or          

the last day of the second month following the month in which occurs the Participant s Separation from Service or any applicable anniversary of such Separation
from Service (if such event or anniversary is the designated distribution event for the Participant s Account), or          

the last day of the second month following the month in which the deferred commencement date designated in the Participant Extended Deferral Election occurs.

10.   
   E FFECT  O F  D EATH  O F  A P ARTICIPANT .          10.1   Distributions.  In the event of a Participant s death, the Participant s Account shall be distributed to the
Participant s Beneficiary in a single lump sum cash payment. Such distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after the date of the Participant s death, but in no event later than the   later   of
(i) the close of the calendar year in which the Participant s death occurs or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of the Participant s death.       10.2   Beneficiary Designation.        (a)  Upon enrollment in the Plan, each Participant shall file a prescribed form with the Administrator or its designate naming a person or persons as the Beneficiary who will receive distributions payable under
the Plan in the event of the Participant s death. If the Participant does not name a Beneficiary, or if none of the named Beneficiaries is living at the time payment is due, then the Beneficiary shall be the Participant s spouse, or if
none, the Participant s children in equal shares, or if none, the Participant s estate.       (b)  The
Participant may change the designation of a Beneficiary at any time in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator. Designation of a Beneficiary, or an amendment or revocation thereof, shall be effective only if made in the
prescribed manner and received by the Administrator prior to the Participant s death.       

11.   
   E STABLISHMENT  O F  A T RUST .          11.1   Trust.  The Participating Employers shall be responsible for the payment of benefits under the Plan attributable to their respective Eligible Employees and Eligible Directors. At their discretion,
the Participating Employers may establish one or more grantor trusts for the  
       
   15   

purpose of providing for the payment of benefits under the Plan;   provided, however,   that the establishment of such a trust shall not affect the
status of the Plan as an unfunded plan. Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Participating Employer s creditors in the event of its bankruptcy or insolvency. Benefits paid the
Participants from any such trust shall be considered paid by the Participating Employer for purposes of meeting that Participating Employer s obligations under the Plan. Notwithstanding the establishment of a trust, each Participating Employer
reserves the right at any time and from time to time to pay Plan benefits to Participants or their Beneficiaries in whole or in part from sources other than the Trust, in which case upon the Participating Employer s request, that Participating
Employer shall receive a distribution from the Trust in an amount equal to the amount paid by that Participating Employer from sources other than the Trust to the Participant or Beneficiary in satisfaction of its obligations under the Plan, provided
that such distribution shall not exceed the amount of Trust assets previously allocated to such Participant or Beneficiary.       11.2
  General Duties of Trustee.  The Trustee shall manage, invest and reinvest the Trust Fund as provided in the Trust Agreement. The Trustee shall collect the income on the Trust Fund and make distributions therefrom, all as provided in the
Plan and in the Trust Agreement.       

12.   
   A MENDMENT  A ND  T ERMINATION .          12.1   Amendment by Employer.  The Employer reserves the authority to amend the Plan in its sole discretion. Each such amendment will become effective on the designated effective date of that amendment. Any
such amendment notwithstanding, no Participant s Account will be reduced by such amendment below the amount to which the Participant would have been entitled had his or her Separation from Service occurred immediately prior to the date of the
amendment. The Employer may from time to time make any amendment to the Plan that may be necessary to satisfy applicable requirements of the Code or ERISA. The Board or other individual(s) designated by the Board may act on behalf of the Employer
for purposes of this Section 12.1. In no event shall any amendment to the Plan adversely affect the distribution provisions in effect for the Participant Accounts maintained under the Plan, and all amounts deferred prior to the date of any such
Plan amendment shall continue to become due and payable in accordance with the distribution provisions of Sections 6, 9 and 10 as in effect immediately prior to such amendment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Senior Vice President, Human
Resources (or his or her authorized delegate) shall have the authority to adopt amendments to the Plan that are required by law or provide administrative practices or clarity (specifically amendments not materially affecting either the financial
obligation of the Company or the level of benefits provided to a Participant or a Beneficiary) through the Plan. Any such amendments made by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources or his or her authorized delegate) shall be subject to the
limitations set forth above.       12.2   Retroactive Amendments.  An amendment made by the Employer in accordance with
Section 12.1 may be made effective on a date prior to the first day of the Plan Year in which adopted, if such amendment is necessary or appropriate to enable the Plan and Trust to satisfy the applicable requirements of the Code or ERISA or to
conform the Plan to any change in federal law or to any regulations or ruling thereunder. Any retroactive amendment by the  
       
   16   

Employer will be subject to the provisions of Section 12.1. The Board or any officer of the Company designated by the Board, including the Senior Vice
President, Human Resources, shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Employer for purposes of this Section 12.2.       12.3 
 Termination.  The Employer has adopted the Plan with the intention and expectation that contributions will be continued indefinitely. However, the Employer has no obligation or liability whatsoever to maintain the Plan for any length of time
and may suspend the Plan by discontinuing contributions under the Plan or terminate the Plan at any time in its discretion without any liability hereunder for any such suspension or termination. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 12.3(a),
(b) or (c) below, the termination of the Plan shall not affect the distribution provisions in effect for the Participant Accounts maintained hereunder, and all amounts deferred prior to the date of any such Plan termination shall continue
to become due and payable in accordance with the distribution provisions of Sections 6, 9 and 10 as in effect immediately prior to such plan termination.       (a)  Except as provided in Sections 12.3(b) and (c) below, in the event of a termination of the Plan during a period in which the Employer has not experienced a financial downturn, the Participant Accounts
maintained under the Plan may, in the Employer s discretion, be distributed within the period beginning twelve (12) months after the date the Plan is terminated and ending twenty-four (24) months after the date of such plan
termination, or pursuant to Section 6, 9 or 10 of the Plan, if earlier. If the Plan is terminated and Accounts are distributed, the Employer and the other Participating Employers shall also terminate and liquidate all other non-qualified
elective account balance deferred compensation plans maintained by them and shall not adopt a new non-qualified elective account balance deferred compensation plan for at least three (3) years after the date the Plan is terminated.   
   (b)  The Employer and the other Participating Employers may terminate the Plan thirty (30) days prior to or within twelve
(12) months following a Change of Control and distribute, within the twelve (12)-month period following the termination of the Plan, the Accounts of the Participants affected by such Change in Control If the Plan is terminated and Accounts are
distributed, the Employer and the other Participating Employers shall also terminate all other non-qualified elective account balance deferred compensation plans sponsored by them in which such Participants participate, and all of the benefits
accrued under those terminated plans by such Participants shall be distributed to them within twelve (12) months following the termination of such plans.       (c)  The Employer may terminate the Plan upon a corporate dissolution of the Employer that is taxed under Section 331 of the
Code or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 503(b)(1)(A), provided that the Participant Accounts are distributed and included in the gross income of the Participants by the later of (i) the Plan Year in
which the Plan terminates or (ii) the first Plan Year in which payment of the Accounts is administratively practicable.       
     13.1 
 Withholding Taxes.  All distributions under the Plan shall be subject to reduction in order to reflect tax withholding obligations imposed by law.         
   17   

13.2   Participant s Unsecured Rights.  The Account of any Participant, and such
Participant s right to receive distributions from his or her Account, shall be considered an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Employer; such Accounts are unfunded bookkeeping entries. The Employer considers the Plan to be
unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. No Participant shall have an interest in, or make claim against, any specific asset of the Employer (or any other Participating Employer) pursuant to the Plan.       13.3   Limitation of Rights.  Neither the establishment of the Plan and the Trust, nor any amendment thereof, nor the creation of any fund or
account, nor the payment of any benefits, will be construed as giving to any Participant or other person any legal or equitable right against any Participating Employer, the Administrator or the Trustee, except as provided herein. In no event shall
the terms of employment or service of any Participant be modified or in any way affected hereby.       13.4   Nonalienability of
Benefits.  Except as provided in Sections 13.4(a) and (b) with respect to domestic relations orders, the benefits provided hereunder will not be subject to alienation, assignment, garnishment, attachment, execution or levy of any kind,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, and any attempt to cause such benefits to be so subjected will not be recognized, except to such extent as may be required by law.       (a)  The procedures established by the Administrator for the determination of the qualified status of domestic relations orders and
for making distributions under qualified domestic relations orders, as provided in Section 206(d) of ERISA, shall apply to the Plan, to the extent applicable.       (b)  To the extent required to comply with a qualified domestic relations order, amounts awarded to an alternate payee under a
qualified domestic relations order shall be distributed in the form of a lump sum distribution as soon as administratively feasible following the determination of the qualified status of the domestic relations order. To the extent that the qualified
domestic relations order does not require an immediate lump sum distribution, the alternate payee shall have all rights regarding investment elections and distribution elections and withdrawal rights as if such alternate payee were a Participant.
For purposes of determining distributions to an alternate payee,  Separation from Service  shall be the Separation from Service of the Participant whose Account is the subject of the qualified domestic relations order.       13.5   Facility of Payment.  In the event the Administrator determines, on the basis of medical reports or other evidence satisfactory to the
Administrator, that the recipient of any benefit payments under the Plan is incapable of handling his or her affairs by reason of minority, illness, infirmity or other incapacity, the Administrator may direct the Trustee to disburse such payments to
a person or institution designated by a court which has jurisdiction over such recipient or a person or institution otherwise having the legal authority under state law for the care and control of such recipient. The receipt by such person or
institution of any such payments will be complete acquittance therefore, and any such payment to the extent thereof, will discharge the liability of the Participating Employer and the Trust for the payment of benefits hereunder to such recipient.
        
   18   

13.6   Governing Law.  The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan
shall be governed by ERISA, and, to the extent that they are not preempted, by the laws of the State of California, excluding California s choice-of-law provisions.       

14.   
   P LAN  A DMINISTRATION .          14.1   Powers and Responsibilities of the Administrator.  The Administrator has the full power and the full responsibility to administer the Plan in all of its details. The Administrator s powers and responsibilities
include, but are not limited to, the following:       (a)  To make and enforce such rules and regulations as it deems
necessary or proper for the efficient administration of the Plan;       (b)  To interpret the Plan, with each such
interpretation made in good faith to be final and conclusive on all persons claiming benefits under the Plan;       (c)  To
decide all questions concerning the Plan, the eligibility of any person to participate in the Plan and the amount of benefits to which such person may be entitled under the Plan;       (d)  To administer the claims and review procedures specified in Section 14.2;       (e)  To compute the amount of benefits which will be payable to any Participant or Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of
the Plan;       (f)  To determine the person or persons to whom such benefits will be paid;       (g)  To authorize the payment of benefits;       (h)  To comply with the reporting and disclosure requirements of Part 1 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA;       (i)  To appoint such agents, counsel, accountants and consultants as may be required to assist in administering the Plan; and
      (j)  By written instrument, to allocate and delegate its responsibilities, including the formation of an
Administrative Committee to administer the Plan.       14.2 Claims and Review Procedure.        (a)   Informal Resolution of Questions.  Any Participant or Beneficiary who has questions or concerns about his or her benefits
under the Plan may communicate with the Administrator. If this discussion does not give the Participant or Beneficiary satisfactory results, a formal claim for benefits may be made, within one year of the event giving rise to the claim, in
accordance with the procedures of this Section 14.2.         
   19   

(b) Formal Benefits Claim   Review by Administrator.  A Participant or
Beneficiary may make a written claim for his or her benefits under the Plan. The claim must be addressed to the Administrator, Deferred Compensation Plan, Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404. The Administrator
shall decide the action to be taken with respect to any such claim and may require additional information if necessary to process the claim. The Administrator shall review the claim and shall issue its decision, in writing, no later than ninety
(90) days after the date the claim is received, unless the circumstances require an extension of time. If such an extension is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the person making the claim within the initial ninety
(90-day period, and the notice shall state the circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Administrator expects to reach a decision on the claim. In no event shall the extension exceed a period of ninety (90) days from the
end of the initial period.         (c)   Notice of Denied Claim.  If the Administrator denies a claim in whole or
in part, the Administrator shall provide the person making the claim with written notice of the denial within the period specified in Section 14.2(b) above. The notice shall set forth the specific reason for the denial, reference to the
specific Plan provisions upon which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim, an explanation of why such information is required, and an explanation of the Plan s appeal
procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.       (d) Appeal to Administrator.        (1)  A person whose claim has been denied in whole or in part (or such person s authorized representative) may file an appeal of the decision in writing with the Administrator within sixty (60) days of
receipt of the notification of denial. The appeal must be addressed to: Administrator, Deferred Compensation Plan, Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404. The Administrator, for good cause shown, may extend the
period during which the appeal may be filed for another sixty (60) days. The appellant and/or his or her authorized representative shall be permitted to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim for
benefits. Upon request and free of charge, the applicant should be provided reasonable access to and copies of, all documents, records or other information relevant to the appellant s claim.       (2)  The Administrator s review shall take into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the
appellant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The Administrator shall not be restricted in its review to those provisions of the Plan cited in the
original denial of the claim.       (3)  The Administrator shall issue a written decision within a reasonable period of
time but not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the appeal, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case the written decision shall be issued as soon as possible, but not later than one
hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of an appeal. If such an extension is required, written notice shall be furnished to the appellant within the initial sixty (60)-day period. This notice shall state the circumstances requiring the
extension and the date by which the Administrator expects to reach a decision on the appeal.         
   20   

(4)  If the decision on the appeal denies the claim in whole or in part written
notice shall be furnished to the appellant. Such notice shall state the reason(s) for the denial, including references to specific Plan provisions upon which the denial was based. The notice shall state that the appellant is entitled to receive,
upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim for benefits. The notice shall describe any voluntary appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the
appellant s right to obtain the information about such procedures. The notice shall also include a statement of the appellant s right to bring an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.       (5)  The decision of the Administrator on the appeal shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons and shall be given the
maximum possible deference allowed by law.       (e)   Exhaustion of Remedies.  No legal or equitable action for
benefits under the Plan shall be brought unless and until the claimant has submitted a written claim for benefits in accordance with Section 14.2(b) above, has been notified that the claim is denied in accordance with Section 14.2(c)
above, has filed a written request for a review of the claim in accordance with Section 14.2(d) above, and has been notified in writing that the Administrator has affirmed the denial of the claim in accordance with Section 14.2(d) above;
  provided, however,   that an action for benefits may be brought after the Administrator has failed to act on the claim within the time prescribed in Section 14.2(b) and Section 14.2(d), respectively.       14.3   Execution and Signature.  To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to affix
the corporate name hereto:        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Kristen M. Metza   

Kristen M. Metza   

Senior Vice President, Human Resources   

Dated: February 8, 2008   

21   

A TTACHMENT  A        P LAN  I NVESTMENT  F UNDS   AS   OF  O CTOBER  22, 2007        
     For Eligible Directors Only       Common Stock of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Phantom Shares)   

</EX-10.60>

<EX-10.61>
 5
 dex1061.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. SEVERANCE PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan 

Exhibit 10.61        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SEVERANCE PLAN        Adopted on March 23, 2004,        to be effective January 29, 2003  
      Amended and Restated on May 9, 2006,        to be effective January 1, 2005        Amended and Restated on May 8, 2007        to be effective May 8, 2007        Amended on February 8, 2008        to be effective January 1, 2008    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

I.   
      
    INTRODUCTION   
      
  1   

II.   
      
    COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION   
      
  1   

III.   
      
    TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION   
      
  1   

IV.   
      
    SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT   
      
  2   

V.   
      
    TIME AND FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT   
      
  5   

VI.   
      
    DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT   
      
  6   

VII.   
      
    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
      
  7   

VIII.   
      
    NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS   
      
  8   

IX.   
      
    SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS   
      
  8   

X.   
      
    LEGAL CONSTRUCTION   
      
  8   

XI.   
      
    ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN   
      
  8   

XII.   
      
    CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS   
      
  10   

XIII.   
      
    BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN   
      
  12   

XIV.   
      
    OTHER PLAN INFORMATION   
      
  12   

XV.   
      
    STATEMENT OF ERISA RIGHTS   
      
  12   

XVI.   
      
    AVAILABILITY OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION   
      
  13   

XVII.   
      
    DEFINITIONS   
      
  14   

XVIII.   
      
    EXECUTION   
      
  19   

APPENDIX A Chief Executive Officer Severance Benefits   
      
  20   

APPENDIX B Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President Severance Benefits   
      
  25   

APPENDIX C Vice President and Senior Advisor Severance Benefits   
      
  29   

APPENDIX D Severance Benefits for Eligible Employees other than Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President and Senior
Advisor  
      
  33   
       
   i   

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SEVERANCE PLAN        AND        SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION        (As Amended and Restated Effective May 8, 2007
and As Subsequently Amended Effective        January 1, 2008)        

I.  
  INTRODUCTION        The
Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan (the  Plan ) was originally adopted by the Company effective January 29, 2003, and was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2005. The Plan was further amended and restated on
May 8, 2007 and subsequently amended on February 8, 2008 in order to effect the following: (i) bring the Plan into documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Code and the final Treasury Regulations thereunder and
(ii) incorporate certain transitional relief in accordance with (A) Treasury Notice 2005-1, Q A-19, as modified by the preamble to the proposed and the final regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, published in the
Federal Register on October 4, 2005 and April 17, 2007, respectively, and (B) Treasury Notice 2007-86. This Plan and Summary Plan Description is effective January 1, 2008 to effect such full documentary compliance under
Section 409A of the Code and replaces all severance or similar plans or programs of the Company previously in effect. The Company has no severance or similar plan or program other than this Plan.   1         The purpose of the Plan is to provide a Severance Pay Benefit to certain Eligible
Employees whose employment with the Company terminates under certain prescribed circumstances. The Company is the Plan Administrator for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). The Plan is
intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.      Capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the meaning set forth in Section
XVII.       

II.  
  COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION        An Eligible Employee shall commence
participation in the Plan upon the later of (i) January 29, 2003 or (ii) his or her date of hire.       

III.  
  TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION        A Participant s participation in the
Plan shall terminate upon the occurrence of the earliest of the following:       

(a)  
  The Participant s employment terminates without meeting the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(1).             

1      
    The Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Severance Plan remained in effect until January 23, 2004 and provided benefits
to employees of Triangle who were involuntarily terminated.            
   1   

(b)  
  The Participant s employment terminates with a provision of Section IV(a)(ii) being applicable.         

(c)  
  The Participant fails to meet the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(2).         

(d)  
  The Participant has received a complete distribution of his or her Severance Pay Benefit.         

(e)  
  The Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee (other than by reason of termination of his or her employment with the Company).         

(f)  
  The Plan terminates.         

IV.  
  SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT         

(a)  
  Eligibility for Severance Pay Benefit         

(i)  
  Subject to Section IV(a)(ii), a Participant shall be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit only if the Participant meets the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(1) and Section
IV(a)(i)(2).         

(1)  
  The Participant incurs a Separation from Service as a result of an involuntary termination of his or her Employee status by the Company because of a Company-wide or departmental
reorganization or a significant restructuring of the Participant s job duties; provided, however, that a Participant s Employee status shall also be deemed to have been involuntarily terminated by the Company if he or she resigns because
of (A) a transfer to a new work location that is more than 50 miles from his or her previous work location, and (B) in the case of a Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit is determined with reference to Appendix A, B or C, a Constructive
Termination (as defined in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan) in conjunction with a Change in Control and within the time specified in Appendix A, B or C, as applicable.         

(2)  
  The Participant executes the Release within the time frame prescribed therein, but in no event more than forty-five (45) days after his or her Separation from Service, and the
period (if any such period is prescribed in the Release) for revoking the execution of the Release under the Older Workers  Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C.   626(f), expires without the Participant s revocation of such Release.
       Under no circumstances shall a Participant be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan if he or she terminates
Employee status for the purpose of accepting employment with the entity that effectuates a Change in Control, its subsidiaries or affiliates.       

(ii)  
  Notwithstanding Section IV(a)(i), a Participant shall be disqualified from receiving a Severance Pay Benefit upon the occurrence of any of the following:     

(1)  
  The Participant voluntarily terminates Employee status for any reason prior to the termination date set by the Company;           
   2   

(2)  
  The Participant s Employee status is terminated by death or for cause (including, without limitation, gross misconduct or dereliction of duty) or for failure to meet
performance goals or objectives as determined by the Company;         

(3)  
  If the Participant is receiving short-term sick leave benefits on the date his or her Employee status terminates, the Participant fails to execute and deliver to the Company, within
thirty (30) days after his or her Separation from Service, a written waiver of any short-term sick leave benefits that might otherwise be payable after such termination of Employee status;         

(4)  
  The Participant terminates Employee status in order to accept employment with an organization that is wholly or partly owned (directly or indirectly) by the Company or an Affiliate;

(5)  
  The Participant accepts any job with a Buyer or Outsourcing Supplier;         

(6)  
  The Participant is offered full-time employment with a Buyer or Outsourcing Supplier at a new work location 50 miles or less from his or her previous work location with the Company
and taking such position would not result in a reduction in his or her Regular Earnings;         

(7)  
  Except in the case of a Severance Pay Benefit payable on account of a Change in Control of the Company, the Participant received a severance benefit in connection with an
acquisition by the Company within 24 months prior to his or her Separation from Service; or         

(8)  
  Except for a Severance Pay Benefit payable on account of a Change in Control of the Company, the Participant has not completed six months of Continuous Service as of the date of his
or her termination of Employee status; provided, however, that, effective May 8, 2007, such service requirement shall not be applicable to Employees who are Vice Presidents or in Grades 21 through 34.        The business decisions that may result in a Participant qualifying for a Severance Pay Benefit are decisions to be made by the Company in its sole
discretion. In making these decisions, similarly situated organizations, locations, functions, classifications, and/or Participants need not be treated in the same manner. Each Participant remains an employee at will, and the date selected by the
Company to terminate the Participant s Employee status is within its sole discretion.         
   3   

(b)  
  Amount of Severance Pay Benefit         

(i)  
  Subject to Section IV(b)(ii), the Severance Pay Benefit payable to a Participant shall be as set forth in the applicable Appendix:         

(1)  
  Appendix A   Chief Executive Officer.         

(2)  
  Appendix B   Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents.         

(3)  
  Appendix C   Vice Presidents and Senior Advisors.         

(4)  
  Appendix D   All Eligible Employees not covered by Appendix A, B, or C.        Senior Advisors covered under Appendix C shall only be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit in connection with a Change in Control.       

(ii)  
  Notwithstanding Section IV(b)(i), the total Severance Pay Benefit otherwise payable to a Participant under the Plan shall be subject to reduction (but not below zero) as follows:

(1)  
  If a Participant is reemployed by the Company or an Affiliate within the number of weeks after his or her Separation from Service that is equal to the number of weeks taken into
consideration in calculating the Severance Pay Benefit, the total Severance Pay Benefit payable to such Participant shall be reduced to the dollar amount that the Participant s Regular Earnings would have been for the period from the date of
termination to the date of reemployment. In all cases, the reduced benefit will be based on the Participant s Regular Earnings used to calculate such Participant s Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan. A Participant will be considered
 reemployed  under the Plan for purposes of the foregoing repayment provision if he or she is rehired as an Employee or if he or she is retained at a Company facility as or through a contractor for more than a full-time equivalent of more
than 45 work days.         

(2)  
  If a Participant is employed by a Buyer or Outsourcing Vendor within the number of weeks after his or her Separation from Service that is equal to the number of weeks taken into
consideration in calculating the Severance Pay Benefit, the total Severance Pay Benefit payable to such Participant shall be reduced to the dollar amount that the Participant s Regular Earnings would have been for the period from the date of
termination to the date of employment with the Buyer or Outsourcing Vendor.        Section IV(b)(ii)(2) may be waived in writing by
the Company in its sole discretion.         
   4   

(3)  
  By severance pay or other similar benefits payable under any other plan or policy of the Company or an Affiliate or government required payment (other than unemployment compensation
under United States law), including, but not limited to, any benefit enhancement program adopted as part of a pension plan, but only to the extent the time and form of such alternative payments do not otherwise result in an impermissible
acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A of the Severance Pay Benefit payable under this Plan.         

(4)  
  By any amounts payable pursuant to the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ( WARN ) or any other similar federal, state or local statute.

(5)  
  By the amount of any indebtedness to the Company, but only to the extent such offset would not otherwise contravene any applicable limitations of Code Section 409A.

(c)  
  Repayment of the Severance Pay Benefit        If the Participant
has received payment under the Plan in excess of the Severance Pay Benefit, as reduced in accordance with Section IV(b)(ii), the Participant must agree as a condition of reemployment that such excess will be repaid to the Company within sixty
(60) days after the date his or her reemployment commences.       

V.  
  TIME AND FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT         

(a)  
  The Severance Pay Benefit for each Participant shall be paid in equal periodic installments over the total number of weeks taken into account in determining the amount of the
Severance Pay Benefit to which such Participant in entitled. Except as set forth below, such installments shall be payable over the applicable period on the regularly scheduled pay dates for the Participant s former job and location, beginning
with (i) the first such pay date within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) is effective
following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) is delivered to the Company or (if earlier) the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such
Release and waiver are each delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV.         

(b)  
    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section V or any other Section of the Plan, no Severance Pay Benefit that is deemed to constitute
 nonqualified deferred compensation  within the meaning of and subject to Section 409A of the Code shall commence with respect to a Participant until the earlier of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the
date of such Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) the date of his or her death, if the Participant is deemed at the time of such Separation from Service to be a Specified Employee   and   such delayed commencement is
otherwise  
          
   5   

required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, all payments
deferred pursuant to this Section V(a)(ii) shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant, and any remaining Severance Pay Benefit shall be paid in accordance with the schedule described in Section V(a) above.          

(c)  
  Notwithstanding Section V(b), should a Participant who is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her Separation from Service become entitled to a General Severance Pay Benefit
prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, then the portion of that Severance Pay Benefit that does not exceed the dollar limit described below and is otherwise scheduled to be paid no later than the last day of the second calendar year
following the calendar year in which his or her Separation from Service occurs will not be subject to any deferred commencement date under Section V(b) and shall be paid to such Participant as it becomes due under Section V(a),   provided and
only if   such portion qualifies as an involuntary separation pay plan in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations. For purposes of this paragraph (iii), the applicable dollar
limitation will be equal to two (2) times the lesser of (A) the Participant s annualized compensation (based on his or her annual rate of pay for the taxable year preceding the taxable year of his or her Separation from Service,
adjusted to reflect any increase during that taxable year which was expected to continue indefinitely had such Separation from Service not occurred) or (B) the compensation limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code as in effect in the
year of the Separation from Service. To the extent the portion of the Severance Pay Benefit to which such Participant would otherwise be entitled under Section V(a) during the deferral period under Section V(b) exceeds the foregoing dollar
limitation, such excess shall be paid in a lump sum upon the expiration of that deferral period, in accordance with the payment delay provisions of Section V(b), and the remainder of the Severance Pay Benefit (if any) shall be paid in accordance
with the schedule described in Section V(a). In no event, however, shall this paragraph (iii) be applicable to any Severance Pay Benefit (or any portion thereof) which does not qualify as an involuntary separation pay plan under
Section 1.409A-(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations.         

(d)  
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no distribution shall be made from the Plan that would constitute an impermissible acceleration of payment as
defined in Section 409A(3) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.         

(e)  
  No interest shall be paid on a Severance Pay Benefit required to be deferred in accordance with the foregoing.         

VI.  
  DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT        If a Participant dies after qualifying for a
Severance Pay Benefit but before such benefit is completely paid, the balance of the Severance Pay Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary not later than the later of (i) December 31 of the year in which
the Participant s death occurred or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of the Participant s death.       
  
   6   

VII.  
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION         

(a)  
  General Rule.        Although the Company expects to continue
the Plan indefinitely, inasmuch as future conditions cannot be foreseen, (subject to Sections VII(b) and (c)) the Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of its board of directors or by action of a committee
or individual(s) acting pursuant to a valid delegation of authority of the board of directors. However, no amendment or termination shall adversely affect the right of a Participant who incurs a Separation from Service prior to the date of such
amendment or termination to:       

(i)  
  receive the unpaid balance of any Severance Pay Benefit that has become payable in accordance with the foregoing provisions of the Plan; or         

(ii)  
  qualify for a Severance Pay Benefit by the timely execution and delivery of the requisite Release after the date of such amendment or termination.         

(b)  
  Restrictions on Amendments.        Notwithstanding Section
VII(a) of the Plan, and except to the extent required to comply with applicable law, no termination of the Plan and no amendment described below shall be effective if adopted within six months before or at any time after the public announcement of
an event or proposed transaction which would constitute a Change in Control (as such term is defined prior to such amendment); provided, however, that such an amendment or termination of the Plan may be effected, even if adopted after such a public
announcement, if (a) the amendment or termination is adopted after any plans have been abandoned to cause the event or effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted the Change in Control, and the event which would have
constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such adoption, no other event constituting a Change in Control has occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed transaction which would
constitute a Change in Control has been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred.      The amendments prohibited by this Section VII(b) include any amendment which is executed (or would otherwise become effective) at the request of a third
party who effectuates a Change in Control or any amendment which, if adopted and given effect would:       

(i)  
  Deprive any individual who is an Eligible Employee as of the Change in Control of coverage under the Plan as in effect at the time of such amendment;         

(ii)  
  Limit eligibility for or reduce the amount of any Severance Pay Benefit; or         

(iii)  
  Amend Section VII, IX, or the definitions of the terms  Change in Control  or  Successors and Assigns  in Section XVII of the Plan.           
   7   

No person shall take any action that would directly or indirectly have the same effect as any of the
prohibited amendments or termination described in this Section VII(b).       

(c)  
  No Change in Payment Schedule        Under no circumstances
shall any amendment or termination of the Plan affect or modify the payment schedule in effect for a Participant s Severance Pay Benefit in a manner which would otherwise result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of that payment
schedule under Code Section 409A.       

(d)  
  Amendments to Comply with Section 409A of the Code.        Notwithstanding any provision of Section VII to the contrary, the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify this Plan as may be necessary to
ensure the Severance Pay Benefits provided under this Plan are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from, or otherwise complies with, Section 409A of the Code; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the
Severance Pay Benefit provided under this Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to the Severance Pay Benefits provided under this Plan.

VIII.   
  NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS        To the full extent permitted by law and except
as expressly provided in the Plan, no Severance Pay Benefit shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.       

IX.  
  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS        The Plan shall be binding upon the Company, its
Successors and Assigns. Notwithstanding that the Plan may be binding upon such Successors and Assigns by operation of law, the Company shall require any Successor or Assign to expressly assume and agree to be bound by the Plan in the same manner and
to the same extent that the Company would be if no succession or assignment had taken place.       

X.  
  LEGAL CONSTRUCTION        This Plan is governed by and shall be construed in
accordance with the Code and ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, with the laws of the State of California.       

XI.  
  ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN         

(a)  
  Plan Sponsor and Plan Administrator.        The Company is the
 Plan Sponsor  and the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan as such terms are used in ERISA.         
   8   

(b)  
  Administrative Power and Responsibility.        The Company in
its capacity as Plan Administrator of the Plan is the named fiduciary that has the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan. The Company shall make such rules, regulations, interpretations, and computations and
shall take such other action to administer the Plan as it may deem appropriate. The Company shall have the sole discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to determine eligibility for benefits pursuant to the objective criteria set forth
in the Plan. In administering the Plan, the Company shall at all times discharge its duties with respect to the Plan in accordance with the standards set forth in section 404(a)(l) of ERISA. The Company may engage the services of such persons or
organizations to render advice or perform services with respect to its responsibilities under the Plan as it shall determine to be necessary or appropriate. Such persons or organizations may include (without limitation) actuaries, attorneys,
accountants and consultants.       

(c)  
  Review Panel.        Upon receipt of a request for review, the
Company shall appoint a Review Panel that shall consist of three or more individuals. The Review Panel shall be the named fiduciary that shall have authority to act with respect to appeals from denial of benefits under the Plan.       

(d)  
  Service in More Than One Fiduciary Capacity.        Any person
or group of persons may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity with respect to the Plan.       

(e)  
  Performance of Responsibilities.        The responsibilities of
the Company under the Plan shall be carried out on its behalf by its officers, employees, and agents. The Company may delegate any of its fiduciary responsibilities under the Plan to another person or persons pursuant to a written instrument that
specifies the fiduciary responsibilities so delegated to each such person.       

(f)  
  Employee Communications and Other Plan Activities.        In
communications with its employees and in any other activities relating to the Plan, the Company shall comply with the rules, regulations, interpretations, computations, and instructions that were issued to administer the Plan. With respect to
matters relating to the Plan, directors, officers, and employees of the Company shall act on behalf or in the name of the Company in their capacity as directors, officers, and employees and not as individual fiduciaries.         
   9   

XII.  
  CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS         

(a)  
  Claims for Benefits and Inquiries.        All claims for
benefits and all inquiries concerning the Plan or present or future rights to benefits under the Plan, shall be submitted to the Plan Administrator in writing and addressed as follows:  Gilead Sciences, Inc., Plan Administrator under the Gilead
Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404   or such other location as communicated to the Participant. A claim for benefits shall be signed by the Participant, or if a Participant is deceased, by such
Participant s spouse or registered domestic partner, designated beneficiary or estate, as the case may be.       

(b)  
  Denials of Claims.        In the event that any claim for
benefits is denied, in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing of such denial and of the right to a review thereof. Such written notice shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant,
specific reasons for such denial, specific references to the Plan provision on which such denial is based, a description of any information or material necessary to perfect the claim, an explanation of why such material is necessary, an explanation
of the Plan s review procedure which includes information on how to appeal the denial and a statement regarding the claimant s right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review.
Such written notice shall be given to the claimant within 90 days after the Plan Administrator receives the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time of up to an additional 90 days for processing the claim. If such an
extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. This notice of extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the
extension of time and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render its decision on the claim for benefits. The claimant shall be permitted to appeal such denial in accordance with the Review Procedure set forth below.       

(c)  
  Review Panel.        The Plan Administrator shall appoint a
 Review Panel,  consisting of three or more individuals who may (but need not) be employees of the Company. The Review Panel shall be the named fiduciary that has the authority to act with respect to any appeal from a denial of benefits.

(d)  
  Requests for a Review.        Any person whose claim for
benefits is denied in whole or in part, or such person s duly authorized representative, may appeal from such denial by submitting a request for a review of the claim to the Review Panel within 60 days after receiving written notice of such
denial from the Plan Administrator. A request for review shall be in writing and shall be addressed as follows:  Review Panel under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404  or such other location
as  
       
   10   

communicated to the Participant. A request for review shall set forth all of the grounds on which it is based, all facts in support of the request and any
other matters that the claimant deems pertinent. As part of the review procedure, the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative may submit written comments, documents, records and other information related to the claim. The
Review Panel will consider all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or
considered in the initial benefit determination. The claimant will be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records or other information (all of which must not be privileged) relevant to the
benefit claim. The Review Panel may require the claimant to submit such additional facts, documents or other material as it may deem necessary or appropriate in making its review.       

(e)  
  Decision on Review.        The Review Panel shall act on each
request for review and notify the claimant within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of time, up to an additional 60 days, for processing the request. If such an extension for review is required, written
notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant within the initial 60-day period. The Review Panel shall give prompt, written notice of its decision to the claimant and to the Plan Administrator. In the event that the Review Panel
confirms the denial of the claim for benefits, in whole or in part, such notice shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, specific references to the Plan provisions on which the
decision is based, a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to the benefit claim, a statement describing any
voluntary appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the claimant s right to obtain information about such procedures, and a statement informing the claimant of his or her right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a).       

(f)  
  Rules and Procedures.        The Review Panel shall establish
such rules and procedures, consistent with the Plan and with ERISA, as it may deem necessary or appropriate in carrying out its responsibilities under this Section XII. The Review Panel may require a claimant who wishes to submit additional
information in connection with an appeal from the denial of benefits to do so at the claimant s own expense.       

(g)  
  Exhaustion of Remedies.        No legal action for benefits
under the Plan shall be brought unless and until the claimant:       

(i)  
  has submitted a written claim for benefits in accordance with Section XII(a);         

(ii)  
  has been notified by the Plan Administrator that the claim is denied;           
   11   

(iii)  
  has filed a written request for a review of the claim in accordance with Section XII(d); and         

(iv)  
  has been notified in writing that the Review Panel has affirmed the denial of the claim.         

XIII.   
  BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN        All Severance Pay Benefits under the
Plan shall be paid by the Company. The Plan shall be unfunded and benefits hereunder shall be paid only from the general assets of the Company.       

XIV.  
  OTHER PLAN INFORMATION         

(a)  
  Plan Identification Numbers.        The Employer Identification
Number (EIN) assigned to the Plan Sponsor (Gilead Sciences, Inc.) by the Internal Revenue Service is 94-3047598. The Plan Number (PN) assigned to the Plan by the Plan Sponsor pursuant to instructions of the Internal Revenue Service is 508.

(b)  
  Ending Date of the Plan s Fiscal Year.        The date of
the end of the year for the purpose of maintaining the Plan s fiscal records is December 31.       

(c)  
  Agent for the Service of Legal Process.        The agent for the
service of legal process with respect to the Plan is the Secretary of Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404. The service of legal process may also be made on the Plan by serving the Plan Administrator.       

(d)  
  Plan Sponsor and Administrator.        The  Plan
Sponsor  and the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan is Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404; 650-522-5800 or such other location as communicated to the Participant. The Plan Administrator is the named
fiduciary charged with responsibility for administering the Plan.       

XV.  
  STATEMENT OF ERISA RIGHTS         

(a)  
  As a participant in this Plan (which is a welfare plan sponsored by the Company), you are entitled to the following rights and protection under ERISA:         

(b)  
  Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other specified locations such as work sites, all Plan documents, collective bargaining agreements and copies
of all documents filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.         
  
   12   

(c)  
  Obtain copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written request to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.

(d)  
  In addition to creating rights for Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people responsible for the operation of the employee benefit Plan. The people who operate your
Plan, called  fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and Beneficiaries.         

(e)  
  No one, including your employer, your union, nor any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a Plan benefit or
exercising your rights under ERISA. If your claim for a Plan benefit is denied in whole or in part, you must receive a written explanation of the reason for the denial. You have the right to have the claim reviewed and reconsidered.

(f)  
  Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if you request materials from the Plan and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit
in a federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the
Plan Administrator. If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that the Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan s money, or if you are
discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court
may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.         

(g)  
  If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should
contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor,
200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.

XVI. AVAILABILITY  
  OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION        ERISA requires Gilead Sciences, Inc.,
as the Plan Administrator of a benefit plan sponsored by the Company, to make available for your examination the Plan documents under which the Plan is established and operated.      The pertinent Plan documents include official Plan texts and any other documents under which the Plan is established or operated, and applicable collective bargaining agreements.         
   13   

These Plan documents are available for your examination at the Plan Administrator s office, 333 Lakeside Drive,
Foster City, CA 94404, and at certain other locations such as the Company s Human Resources offices.       

XVII. DEFINITIONS  

(a)  
   Affiliate  means a member of the Affiliated Group other than Gilead Sciences, Inc. and any Subsidiary.         

(b)  
   Affiliated Group  means the Company and each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Company, as determined in
accordance with Section 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.         

(c)  
   Beneficiary  means the person or persons so designated by a Participant. A Participant may change or revoke a designation of a Beneficiary at any time. To be effective,
any designation of a Beneficiary, or any change or revocation thereof, must be made in writing on the prescribed form and must be received by the Company (in a form acceptable to the Company) before the Participant s death. If a Participant
fails to make a valid designation of a Beneficiary, or if the validly designated Beneficiary is not living when a payment is to be made to such Beneficiary hereunder, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the Participant s spouse or
registered domestic partner if then living or, if not, the Participant s estate.         

(d)  
   Buyer  means an entity that purchases (or has purchased) some or all of the Affiliated Group s interest applicable to the operation in which the Participant is
employed, or an entity that is a direct or indirect successor in ownership or management of the operation in which the Participant is employed. Notwithstanding the above, Buyer shall not include the entity that effectuates a Change in Control.

(e)  
   Change in Control  means an event which constitutes a change in control of the Company as defined in Section 2(i) of the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time or any successor to such provision.         

(f)  
   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.         

(g)  
   Company  means Gilead Sciences, Inc. Where the context requires,  Company  also includes its Subsidiaries, and any of their Successors and Assigns.

(h)  
   Continuous Service  means the sum of the following:         

(i)  
  Any period of time during which a person qualifies as an Eligible Employee or, having once so qualified, is on a leave of absence with pay, a paid vacation or holiday or is
receiving benefits under the Company s short-term disability plan; or;           
   14   

(ii)  
  Any other period that constitutes Continuous Service under written rules or procedures adopted from time to time by the Company, subject to such terms and conditions as the Company
may establish; and any period of time while employed by the Company s Successor or Assigns that that would have constituted Continuous Service if the service had been with the Company prior to the Change in Control.        If an Eligible Employee s Continuous Service is interrupted and the Eligible Employee subsequently returns to a status that constitutes Continuous
Service, such prior Continuous Service shall be disregarded for all purposes of the Plan, except that if an Eligible Employee is reemployed within one year following termination of Continuous Service, all prior Continuous Service and the time period
between the date of termination and reemployment will be considered Continuous Service.       

(i)  
   Determination Date  means each December 31.         

(j)  
   Eligible Employee  means any common law employee on the U.S. dollar payroll of the Company or any Subsidiary who (i) is not on the payroll of a person other than the
Company or such Subsidiary and is for any reason deemed by the Company or any Subsidiary to be a common law employee of the Company or such Subsidiary; (ii) is not considered by the Company or any Subsidiary in its sole discretion to be an
independent contractor, regardless of whether the individual is in fact a common law employee of the Company or such Subsidiary; and (iii) who at the time of his or her Separation from Service with the Company or such Subsidiary is not on a
Leave of Absence Without Pay. An individual s status as an Eligible Employee shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion, and such determination shall be conclusively binding on all persons. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
 Eligible Employee  does not include an employee or former employee of an entity the stock or assets of which are acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary, unless and until the Company s management determines that the Plan shall be
applicable to such employees or former employees.         

(k)  
   Employer Group  means the Company and each other member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Company, as determined in
accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) for purposes of determining the controlled group of corporations under
Section 414(b), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in such sections, and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for
purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears
in Section 1.4.14(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations.         

(l)  
   Employee  means an individual for so long as he or she is in the employ of at least one member of the Employer Group, subject to the control and direction of the employer
entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.           
   15   

(m)  
   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time-to-time.         

(n)  
   Family Leave  means a leave under the Company s family leave policy.         

(o)  
   Leave of Absence Without Pay  means a leave of absence without pay under the Company s leave of absence policy.         

(p)  
   Outsourcing Supplier  means an entity to whom the Company outsources a function performed by Eligible Employees where the Company agrees with such entity in the
outsourcing agreement that it will offer jobs to current Eligible Employees performing that function for the Company.         

(q)  
   Participant  means any Eligible Employee who has commenced participation in the Plan pursuant to Section II and whose participation has not terminated pursuant to Section
III.         

(r)  
   Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan.         

(s)  
   Plan Administrator  means the Company.         

(t)  
   Regular Earnings  means straight-time wages or salary paid to a Participant by any entity within the Employer Group for working a regular work schedule or for a leave of
absence with pay, and shall include any amount that is contributed to any employee benefit plan on behalf of the Participant by any entity within the Employer Group under a salary reduction agreement entered into pursuant to such plan and that is
excluded from the Participant s gross income under section 125, 132(f), or 402(g) of the Code.         

(u)  
   Release  means a Release in the form prescribed by the Company in its sole discretion, pursuant to which the Participant shall waive all employment-related claims in
connection with his or her employment with the Employer Group and the termination of that employment, other than claims for benefits under the actual terms of an employee benefit plan and worker s compensation. For employees subject to the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, such Release shall be structured so as to comply with the requirements of the Older Workers  Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C.   626(f). The form of Release may vary among categories of employees and from
employee to employee within any category of employees.         

(v)  
   Severance Pay Benefit  means a benefit provided by the Plan, as determined pursuant to Section IV.         

(w)  
   Specified Employee  shall mean a  key employee  (within the meaning of that term under Code Section 416(i)). Effective as of January 1, 2005, a
Specified Employee is an Eligible Employee who, at any time during the twelve (12)-month period ending with the applicable Determination Date, is:         

(i)  
  An officer of the Company having aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or more other Affiliated Companies greater than the compensation limit in effect at the
time under Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i) of the Code, provided that no more than fifty officers of the Company shall be determined to be Specified Employees as of any Determination Date;           
   16   

(ii)  
  A five percent owner of the Company or any Affiliated Company; or         

(iii)  
  A one percent owner of the Company or any Affiliated Company who has aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or more other Affiliated Companies of more than
$150,000.        If an Eligible Employee is determined to be a Specified Employee on a Determination Date, then such Eligible
Employee shall be considered a Specified Employee for purposes of the Plan during the period beginning on the first April 1 following the Determination Date and ending on the next March 31.      For purposes of determining an officer s compensation when identifying Specified Employees, compensation is defined in accordance with Treas. Reg.
 1.415(c) 2(a), without applying any safe harbor, special timing or other special rules described in Treas. Reg.    1.415(c) 2(d), 2(e) and 2(g).       

(x)  
   Subsidiary  means any corporation with respect to which Gilead Sciences, Inc., one or more Subsidiaries, or Gilead Sciences, Inc., together with one or more Subsidiaries,
own not less than 80% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or not less than 80% of the total value of all shares of all outstanding classes of stock.         

(y)  
   Successors and Assigns  means a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company (including the Plan) whether by
operation of law or otherwise.         

(z)  
   Separation from Service  means the Participant s cessation of Employee status. For purposes of the Plan, a Separation from Service shall be determined in accordance
with the following standards:        A Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred if the Participant continues to
provide services to one or more members of the Employer Group (whether as a common-law employee or non-employee consultant or contractor) at an annual rate that is 50% or more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding
36-months of employment with the Employer Group (or if employed by the Employer Group less than 36 months, such lesser period).      A
Separation from Service will be deemed to have occurred if the Participant s service with the Employer Group (whether as a common-law employee or non-employee consultant or contractor) is permanently reduced to an annual rate that is less than
20% of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding 36 months of employment with the Employer Group (or if employed by the Employer Group less than 36 months, such lesser period).         
   17   

If such services are permanently reduced by more than 20% but less than 50% of the average over the prior
36 months (or lesser period), a Separation from Service may be deemed to occur based on the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, whether the Participant is treated as an employee for other purposes, such as participation in
employee benefit programs, and whether the Participant is able to perform services for other unrelated entities.      In addition to the
foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred while the Participant is on military leave, sick leave, or other  bona   fide  leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six months or any longer
period for which such Participant s right to reemployment with one or more members of the Employer Group is provided either by statute or contract;   provided, however,   that in the event of a Participant s leave of absence due
to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes such individual to be unable to perform his or her duties as
an Employee, no Separation from Service shall be deemed to occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated
above) and the Participant s right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or contract, then such Participant will be deemed to have a Separation from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of such six (6)-month
or twenty-nine (29)-month period.      This definition of Separation from Service shall not be interpreted as limiting the right of the Company
or any other member of the Employer Group to terminate the employment of an individual while on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence, to the extent permissible under applicable law.      (aa)  2004 Equity Incentive Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time or any successor to such
provision      (bb)  Year of Continuous Service  means the number of days (as defined by the Company in written rules adopted by it from time to time)
of Continuous Service, divided by 365. A Participant s Severance Pay Benefit calculation shall include both full and any partial Years of Continuous Service.         
   18   

XVIII.   
  EXECUTION        The Company has caused its duly-authorized officer to execute
the foregoing Plan as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2008.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Kristen M. Metza   

Kristen M. Metza   

Senior Vice President, Human Resources   

Date: February 8, 2008   

19   

APPENDIX A        Chief Executive Officer        Severance Benefits        

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance
Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable either within the 24-month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that
precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  Three times annual Regular Earnings, plus three times the greater of (a) the last bonus paid under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant Bonus Plan
or (b) the target bonus under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the bonus year in which employment terminates.         

2.  
    Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to the provisions of the Consolidated
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ( COBRA ), the Company will provide such continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s
group health plan (or other arrangement as provided herein) until the   earlier   of (a) the end of the thirty-six (36)-month period following the date of the Participant s Separation from Service or (b) the date the
Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage which is coincidental with the Participant s COBRA continuation period, the Company shall pay its share
of the monthly premium (if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provided, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of
the employee portion of any monthly premium. Following the completion of such COBRA continuation coverage, the same arrangement shall continue in effect, to the extent such coverage is provided by one more insured group health plans maintained by
the Company for its current and former employees. In the absence of such insured plans, the Participant shall, following the expiration of the COBRA coverage period, obtain medical care insurance for himself or herself and his or her eligible family
members. The Participant shall submit appropriate evidence of each periodic premium paid for such insurance within sixty (60) days after the required premium payment date, and to the extent such premium payment represents the cost of medical
care coverage at a level not greater than the level of coverage in effect for the Participant and his or her eligible family members at the end of the COBRA coverage period, the Company shall within thirty (30) days after such submission
reimburse the Participant for the portion of that premium payment in excess of the monthly premiums the Participant would have paid for the  
          
   20   

comparable period of such coverage under the Company s group health plan had the Participant continued to be covered under such plan. During the period
such medical care coverage remains in effect hereunder following the COBRA continuation period, the following provisions shall govern the arrangement: (a) the amount of medical care expenses or premium payments eligible for reimbursement in any
one calendar year of such coverage (or any in-kind medical care coverage provided in any one calendar year) shall not affect the amount of expenses or premium payments eligible for reimbursement (or the in-kind benefits to be provided) in any
subsequent calendar year for which medical care coverage is to be provided hereunder; (ii) any reimbursement of medical care expenses or premium payments covered hereunder shall be made by the Company as soon as administratively practicable
following the incurrence of those expenses or premium payments, but in no event later than the close of the calendar year following the calendar year in which those expenses or premium payments are made or incurred; and (iii) the right to such
continued medical care coverage cannot be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit. Further, as a condition of the coverage provided under this section A.2, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable
coverage from another employer during such thirty-six (36)-month period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the
Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 12 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

4.  
    An additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any
interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the
Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the  Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall
be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the
Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the
calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such
calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the  
          
   21   

event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into
account for purposes of the additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify
the Company of such determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same
manner as the initial payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax
liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the
additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment.
For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not
unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of
appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(b) of the Plan, to the extent those
payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be
made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the
Code.          

B.  
  Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance Pay Benefit under
Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable upon completion of six or more months of Continuous Service and at any time other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of the Appendix A, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

1.  
  Two times annual Regular Earnings plus two times the target bonus under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the bonus year in which employment
terminates, prorated for the number of months of employment in the bonus year.           
   22   

2.  
    Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such
continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan (or other arrangement as provided herein) until the earlier of (a) the end of the
twenty-four (24) month period following the date of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage
which is coincidental with the Participant s COBRA continuation period, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active
employees; provide, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium. Following the completion of such COBRA continuation coverage, the same arrangement shall
continue in effect, to the extent such coverage is provided by one more insured group health plans maintained by the Company for its current and former employees. In the absence of such insured plans, the Participant shall, following the expiration
of the COBRA coverage period, obtain medical care insurance for himself or herself and his or her eligible family members. The Participant shall submit appropriate evidence of each periodic premium paid for such insurance within sixty (60) days
after the required premium payment date, and to the extent such premium payment represents the cost of medical care coverage at a level not greater than the level of coverage in effect for the Participant and his or her eligible family members at
the end of the COBRA coverage period, the Company shall within thirty (30) days after such submission reimburse the Participant for the portion of that premium payment in excess of the monthly premiums the Participant would have paid for the
comparable period of such coverage under the Company s group health plan had the Participant continued to be covered under such plan. During the period such medical care coverage remains in effect hereunder following the COBRA continuation
period, the following provisions shall govern the arrangement: (a) the amount of medical care expenses or premium payments eligible for reimbursement in any one calendar year of such coverage (or any in-kind medical care coverage provided in
any one calendar year) shall not affect the amount of expenses or premium payments eligible for reimbursement (or the in-kind benefits to be provided) in any subsequent calendar year for which medical care coverage is to be provided hereunder;
(ii) any reimbursement of medical care expenses or premium payments covered hereunder shall be made by the Company as soon as administratively practicable following the incurrence of those expenses or premium payments, but in no event later
than the close of the calendar year following the calendar year in which those expenses or premium payments are made or incurred; and (iii) the right to such continued medical care coverage cannot be liquidated or exchanged for any other
benefit. Further, as a condition of the coverage provided under this section B.2, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during such twenty-four (24)-month  
          
   23   

period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant
(including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 12 months following the date of Separation from Service.           
   24   

APPENDIX B        Executive Vice President and        Senior Vice President        Severance Benefits        

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance
Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable either within the 18- month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that
precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  2.5 times annual Regular Earnings, plus 2.5 times the greater of (a) the last bonus paid under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant or
(b) the target bonus under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the bonus year in which employment terminates.         

2.  
    Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to the provisions of the Consolidated
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ( COBRA ), the Company will provide such continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s
group health plan (or other arrangement as provided herein) until the earlier of (a) the end of the thirty (30)-month period following the date of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan
coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage which is coincidental with the Participant s COBRA continuation period, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for group health
plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provided, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium.
Following the completion of such COBRA continuation coverage, the same arrangement shall continue in effect, to the extent such coverage is provided by one more insured group health plans maintained by the Company for its current and former
employees. In the absence of such insured plans, the Participant shall, following the expiration of the COBRA coverage period, obtain medical care insurance for himself or herself and his or her eligible family members. The Participant shall submit
appropriate evidence of each periodic premium paid for such insurance within sixty (60) days after the required premium payment date, and to the extent such premium payment represents the cost of medical care coverage at a level not greater
than the level of coverage in effect for the Participant and his or her eligible family members at the end of the COBRA coverage period, the Company shall within thirty (30) days after such submission reimburse the Participant for the portion
of that premium payment in  
          
   25   

excess of the monthly premiums the Participant would have paid for the comparable period of such coverage under the Company s group health plan had the
Participant continued to be covered under such plan. During the period such medical care coverage remains in effect hereunder following the COBRA continuation period, the following provisions shall govern the arrangement: (a) the amount of
medical care expenses or premium payments eligible for reimbursement in any one calendar year of such coverage (or any in-kind medical care coverage provided in any one calendar year) shall not affect the amount of expenses or premium payments
eligible for reimbursement (or the in-kind benefits to be provided) in any subsequent calendar year for which medical care coverage is to be provided hereunder; (ii) any reimbursement of medical care expenses or premium payments covered
hereunder shall be made by the Company as soon as administratively practicable following the incurrence of those expenses or premium payments, but in no event later than the close of the calendar year following the calendar year in which those
expenses or premium payments are made or incurred; and (iii) the right to such continued medical care coverage cannot be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit. Further, as a condition of the coverage provided under this section A.2, the
Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during such thirty (30)-month period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of
continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

4.  
    An additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any
interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the
Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the  Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall
be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the
Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the
calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such
calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the  
          
   26   

event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into
account for purposes of the additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify
the Company of such determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same
manner as the initial payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax
liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the
additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment.
For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not
unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of
appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(b) of the Plan, to the extent those
payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be
made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the
Code.          

B.  
  Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance Benefit under
Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable upon completion of six or more months of Continuous Service and at any time other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix B, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

1.  
  1.5 times annual Regular Earnings plus 1.0 times the target bonus under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the bonus year in which employment
terminates, prorated for the number of months of employment in the bonus year.           
   27   

2.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such continuation
coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan (or other arrangement as provided herein) until the earlier of (a) the end of the eighteen
(18)-month period following the date of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage which is coincidental
with the Participant s COBRA continuation period, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provided, however,
that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium. Following the completion of such COBRA continuation coverage, the same arrangement shall continue in effect, to the
extent such coverage is provided by one more insured group health plans maintained by the Company for its current and former employees. In the absence of such insured plans, the Participant shall, following the expiration of the COBRA coverage
period, obtain medical care insurance for himself or herself and his or her eligible family members. The Participant shall submit appropriate evidence of each periodic premium paid for such insurance within sixty (60) days after the required
premium payment date, and to the extent such premium payment represents the cost of medical care coverage at a level not greater than the level of coverage in effect for the Participant and his or her eligible family members at the end of the COBRA
coverage period, the Company shall within thirty (30) days after such submission reimburse the Participant for the portion of that premium payment in excess of the monthly premiums the Participant would have paid for the comparable period of
such coverage under the Company s group health plan had the Participant continued to be covered under such plan. During the period such medical care coverage remains in effect hereunder following the COBRA continuation period, the following
provisions shall govern the arrangement: (a) the amount of medical care expenses or premium payments eligible for reimbursement in any one calendar year of such coverage (or any in-kind medical care coverage provided in any one calendar year)
shall not affect the amount of expenses or premium payment eligible for reimbursement (or the in-kind benefits to be provided) in any subsequent calendar year for which medical care coverage is to be provided hereunder; (ii) any reimbursement
of medical care expenses or premium payments covered hereunder shall be made by the Company as soon as administratively practicable following the incurrence of those expenses or premium payments, but in no event later than the close of the calendar
year following the calendar year in which those expenses or premium payments are made or incurred; and (iii) the right to such continued medical care coverage cannot be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit. Further, as a condition of
the coverage provided under this section B.2, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during such eighteen (18)-month period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the
Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.         

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.           
   28   

APPENDIX C        Vice President and Senior Advisor        Severance Benefits        

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit   For All Vice Presidents and Senior Advisors.        If a Severance Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable either within the 12-month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable
period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  1.5 times annual Regular Earnings, plus 1.5 times the greater of (a) the last bonus paid under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant or
(b) the target bonus under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the bonus year in which employment terminates.         

2.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to the provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ( COBRA ), the Company will provide such continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan
until the earlier of (a) the end of the eighteen (18)-month period following the date of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such
continued medical care coverage (which is coincidental with the Participant s COBRA continuation period), the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for
similarly situated active employees; provided, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium. Further, as a condition of the coverage provided under this
section A.2, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during such eighteen (18)-month period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number
of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under the COBRA.         

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

4.  
    An additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any
interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an  
          
   29   

amount equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of
compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the  Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall be performed by an independent registered public company
accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be
completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the calculations shall be completed within ten
(10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such calculations shall be made to the Participant
within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is
determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then within
forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall be made within the next forty-five
(45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability within ten (10) business days
following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final
Determination to be less than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company,
promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either
(i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or
with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental payments under this
section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(b) of the Plan, to the extent those payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the Participant s
Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate
tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.            
   30   

B.  
  Severance Pay Benefit for Vice Presidents with at least Six Months of Continuous Service        For Vice Presidents who have completed six or more months of Continuous Service at the time they become eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable at any
time other than the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix C, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

2.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such continuation
coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the twelve (12)-month period following the date of Separation
from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for
group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provide, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly
premium. Further, as a condition of the coverage provided under this section B.2, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during such twelve (12)-month period. The period of
continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

C.  
  Severance Pay Benefit for Vice Presidents with less than Six Months of Continuous Service        For Vice Presidents who have not completed six or more months of Continuous Service but are otherwise eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable at any
time other than the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix C, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  4 months of Regular Earnings.           
   31   

2.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such continuation
coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the four (4)-month period following the date of Separation
from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for
group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provide, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly
premium. Further, as a condition of the coverage provided under this section C.2, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during such four (4)-month period. The period of
continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.

3.  
  Outplacement services for 1 month following the date of Separation from Service.        Senior Advisors shall not be entitled to any benefits under Sections B and C of this Appendix C.         
   32   

APPENDIX D        Severance Benefits for Eligible Employees        other than Chief Executive Officer,        Executive Vice President,        Senior
Vice President,        Vice President and Senior Advisor       This Appendix is effective for covered individuals who cease Employee status on or after May 8, 2007, unless they have a pre-existing contract providing a different level of severance pay.       

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance
Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable within the 12-month period following a Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), then regardless of the period of Continuous Service the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

1.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 52 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 22 weeks of Regular Earnings.

2.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to the provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ( COBRA ), the Company will provide such continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan
until the earlier of (a) the end of the severance payment period following the date of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such
continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provided, however, that such payment
shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium. Further, as a condition of such coverage, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from
another employer during the severance payment period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s
eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.         

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.           
   33   

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such continuation
coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the severance payment period following the date of Separation
from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for
group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provide, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly
premium. Further, as a condition of such coverage, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during the severance payment period. The period of continuation coverage provided by
the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.         

c.  
  Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 26 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 9 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such
continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the severance payment period following the date
of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium
(if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provided, however,  
          
   34   

that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium. Further, as a condition of
such coverage, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during the severance payment period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of
months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 1week following the date of Separation from Service.         

B.  
  General Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance Benefit
under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable upon completion of six or more months of Continuous Service and at any time other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix D, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such continuation
coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the severance payment period following the date of Separation
from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for
group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provide, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly
premium. Further, as a condition of such coverage, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during the severance payment period. The period of continuation coverage provided by
the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.           
   35   

c.  
  Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
  Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such continuation
coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the severance payment period following the date of Separation
from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for
group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage for similarly situated active employees; provided, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly
premium. Further, as a condition of such coverage, the Participant will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during the severance payment period. The period of continuation coverage provided by
the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.         

c.  
  Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 26 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 9 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    Provided the Participant elects to continue medical care coverage under the Company s medical benefit plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company will provide such
continuation coverage for the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) under the Company s group health plan until the earlier of (a) the end of the severance payment period following the date
of Separation from Service or (b) the date the Participant secures comparable group health plan coverage from another employer. During the period of such continued  
          
   36   

medical care coverage, the Company shall pay its share of the monthly premium (if any) for group health plan coverage to the same extent it pays for coverage
for similarly situated active employees; provided, however, that such payment shall be contingent upon the Participant s timely payment of the employee portion of any monthly premium. Further, as a condition of such coverage, the Participant
will be required to notify the Company upon securing comparable coverage from another employer during the severance payment period. The period of continuation coverage provided by the Company shall reduce the number of months of continuation
coverage which the Participant (including, if applicable, the Participant s eligible family members) is entitled to receive under COBRA.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.         

C.  
  General Severance Pay Benefit Without Six Months of Continuous Service.        For Eligible Employees in Grades 21 through 34 who have not completed six or more months of Continuous Service but are eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes
payable at any time other than within the Change Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix D, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  4 weeks of Regular Earnings.         

2.  
  Continuation of coverage under and Company contributions toward the cost of the Company s medical benefit plans for the period of severance pay. Such continuation period shall
reduce the period of COBRA coverage to which the Participant is entitled. At the end of this period of continuation coverage the Participant may, at his or her own expense, continue COBRA coverage for the remainder of the period, if any, for which
the Participant is eligible under COBRA.         

3.  
  Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.           
   37   

</EX-10.61>

<EX-10.62>
 6
 dex1062.htm
 COMMERCIALIZATION AGREEMENT DATED DECEMBER 10, 2007

Commercialization Agreement dated December 10, 2007 

Exhibit 10.62        C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED   IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,
 HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED   SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE 
C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF   THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS 
 AMENDED .        COMMERCIALIZATION AGREEMENT        BETWEEN        GILEAD SCIENCES LIMITED        AND        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
       DATED AS OF DECEMBER 10, 2007    

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    TABLE OF CONTENTS        
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       i   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          

[ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       ii   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    COMMERCIALIZATION AGREEMENT       This  COMMERCIALIZATION AGREEMENT  (this   Agreement  ) dated and effective as of December 10, 2007 (the   Effective
Date  ) is hereby made by and between Gilead Sciences Limited, a limited company organized and existing under the laws of Ireland, having offices at Unit 13 Stillorgan Industrial Park, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, Ireland (  Gilead
Sub  ), and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware, having offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, USA (  BMS  ) (each of Gilead Sub and BMS, a
  Party   and, collectively, the   Parties  ).       RECITALS        WHEREAS , Gilead Sub, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (  Gilead Parent  ), and BMS desire to commercialize the
Combination Product (as defined below) in the European Union and certain other countries;       WHEREAS , the Parties, their Affiliates
(as defined below) and certain other Persons (as defined below) have entered into certain other agreements covering the manufacture of the Combination Product for distribution in such countries, the filing of applications with the European Medicines
Agency and any other relevant Regulatory Authorities (as defined below) for approval of the Combination Product by the European Commission or such other relevant Regulatory Authorities, as the case may be, and other related matters; and   
   WHEREAS , Gilead Sub and BMS desire to co-promote the Combination Product, and perform certain related activities, in such countries on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.       NOW ,  THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set
forth below and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:       SECTION 1        DEFINITIONS       As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth in this Section 1.      1.1   1+1 Approved Reimbursement Price   shall have the meaning set forth in Annex C.      1.2   1+1 EXP 
 shall mean, with respect to a country in the Territory, the sum of (a) the EXP (as defined in Annex C) for Sustiva or Stocrin, as applicable, in such country and (b) the EXP for Truvada in such country.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.3   Affected Country   shall mean a country in the Territory in which a Generic
Version Launch has occurred.      1.4   Affected Party   shall mean (a) in the case of a Generic Version Launch of Sustiva
or Stocrin, BMS, or (b) in the case of a Generic Version Launch of Viread, Emtriva or Truvada, Gilead Sub.      1.5
  Affiliate   of a Person shall mean any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition only,
 control  and, with correlative meanings, the terms  controlled by  and  under common control with  shall mean (a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a
Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract relating to voting rights or corporate governance, or (b) the ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting securities or other
ownership interest of a Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the purposes of this definition, none of the US JV, the Supply JV and the MAH shall constitute an Affiliate of either of the Parties, and neither of the Parties shall constitute an
Affiliate of the US JV, the Supply JV or the MAH.      1.6   Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble
hereto.      1.7   Alliance Manager   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.      1.8   Anticipated Agreements   shall mean (a) the Financial Agreement, (b) that certain anticipated amendment and restatement of
the MAH Shareholder Agreement, (c) the Commercial License Agreement, (d) the License Agreements (as defined in the Supply JV Shareholder Agreement), (e) those certain anticipated amendments and restatements of the License Agreements
(as defined in the MAH Shareholder Agreement), other than that certain License Agreement (as so defined) to which Merck and Company, Incorporated, was a party, (f) the Quality Agreement (as defined in the Product Supply Agreement), and
(g) those certain anticipated API Quality Agreements with respect to EFV, TDF and FTC intended for inclusion in Territory Combination Product.      1.9   API   shall mean active pharmaceutical ingredient.      1.10   Applicable Law   shall mean all
applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines or other requirements that may be in effect from time to time, including applicable rules, regulations, guidelines or other requirements of Regulatory Authorities, including, for the avoidance of
doubt, with respect to a product, intermediate thereof (including Blended API (as defined in the Product Supply Services Agreement)) or active pharmaceutical ingredient, GMP, or with respect to the Combination Product, any requirements set forth in
the applicable Territory Marketing Authorization.      1.11   Approved Manufacturing Fee Category   shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(j).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       2   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.12   Approved Marketing Materials   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.6(a).      1.13   Approved Price   shall mean any Approved Reference Price or Approved Reimbursement Price.
     1.14   Approved Reference Price   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c)(iii).      1.15   Approved Reimbursement Price   shall have the meaning set forth in Annex C.      1.16   Arbitration Matter   shall mean any disputed matter (a) that relates to or arises out of the validity, interpretation or
construction of, or the compliance with or breach of, this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement; (b) that came before the JEC pursuant to Section 2.2(h) ( provided  that any dispute relating to the Approved Marketing Materials may
be submitted to arbitration only with respect to the issue of whether specific proposed updates are Required Updates); (c) as to whether, for purposes of Section 2.6(e), a proposal by one Party s member(s) to reverse or modify a
decision of the JEC or such Operating Committee with respect to a matter previously presented to it for decision is based on new information or changed circumstances relevant to the applicable JEC or Operating Committee decision; or (d) that is
designated as an Arbitration Matter hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement;  provided  that, in each case ((a) through (d)), such disputed matter has been considered, but not resolved, by the Executives pursuant to Section 2.6.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) no disputed matter relating to or arising out of the interpretation or construction of the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules shall constitute an Arbitration Matter, and (ii) a disputed matter relating
to or arising out of compliance with or breach of a Party s obligations with respect to providing pricing information to the EU Pricing Discount Committee or to the other Party pursuant to the Pricing Rules shall not constitute an Arbitration
Matter unless and until it has been finally determined pursuant to Section 4.1(e) that such Party provided inaccurate pricing information to the EU Pricing Discount Committee, in which case such matter shall constitute an Arbitration Matter
solely for the limited purposes of (A) determining whether the applicable breach or lack of compliance arose from the gross negligence or intentional misconduct of such Party and (B) determining appropriate remedies, if any.      1.17   Attorney Representative   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(i).      1.18   Authorized Commercialization Expenses   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9.      1.19   Authorized Distribution Expenses   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c).      1.20   Authorized Expenses   shall mean, collectively, the Authorized Commercialization Expenses, Authorized Distribution Expenses,
Authorized Other Expenses and Authorized Supply Expenses.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       3   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.21   Authorized Other Expenses   shall mean all expenses designated herein as
Authorized Other Expenses.      1.22   Authorized Supply Expenses   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3.
     1.23   BMS   shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.      1.24   BMS Licensed Trademarks   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1(a)(ii).      1.25   BMS Product Supply Agreement(s)   shall mean any BMS Product Supply Agreement(s) that may be entered into between Gilead Sub and
certain Affiliates of BMS for sale or other distribution of Territory Combination Product in certain countries in the Territory, each as amended from time to time.      1.26   BMS Sole-Promote Countries   shall mean those countries specified as such in Annex L.      1.27   BMS Territory-Wide Percentage   shall have the meaning set forth in the Financial Agreement.      1.28 
 BMS Third Party Distributor Countries   shall mean those countries specified as such in Annex L.      1.29   Business
Representative   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(i).      1.30   Business Day   shall mean a day that
is not a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banking institutions in Dublin, Ireland, New York, New York or San Francisco, California are required by Applicable Law to remain closed.      1.31   Calendar Quarter   shall mean each successive period of three (3) consecutive calendar months commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, except that the first Calendar Quarter of the Term shall commence on the Effective Date and end on the day immediately prior to the first to occur of
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 after the Effective Date, and the last Calendar Quarter shall end on the last day of the Term.      1.32   Calendar Year   shall mean each successive period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31, except that the first Calendar Year
of the Term shall commence on the Effective Date and end on December 31 of the year in which the Effective Date occurs and the last Calendar Year of the Term shall commence on January 1 of the year in which the Term ends and end on the
last day of the Term.      1.33   Change of Control   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.2(a).      1.34   Combination Product   shall mean the fixed-dose, co-formulated product containing, as its only APIs per single daily dose, 300 mg
TDF, 200 mg FTC, and 600 mg EFV. For the avoidance of doubt, the Combination Product may also be referred to as the fixed-dose, co-formulated product containing, as its only APIs per single daily dose, 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil, 200 mg FTC and 600
mg EFV.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       4   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.35   Commercial Executives   shall mean (a) the President of EMEA (Europe,
Middle East   Africa) for BMS or any direct report (or other appropriate employee of BMS or its Affiliates designated by the foregoing) and (b) the Vice-President for EU Commercial Operations for Gilead Parent or any direct report (or
other appropriate employee of Gilead Parent or its Affiliates designated by the foregoing).      1.36   Commercial License
Agreement   shall mean that certain commercial license agreement anticipated to be entered into between the US JV and Gilead Sub, as amended from time to time.      1.37   Commercial Record Request   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.11(b).      1.38   Commercialization Activities   shall mean Marketing and other activities for the commercialization of the Territory Combination Product, including those set forth in the Commercialization Plan and any other of the
following conducted for the Combination Product in a country in the Territory: execution of product positioning, preparation of promotional and marketing materials, market research and advertising activities, Promotion, advocacy, government and
other public relations activities, pricing under applicable regulations and guidelines and securing local or national drug plan reimbursement.      1.39   Commercialization Budget   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(b).      1.40
  Commercialization Budget Deadlock   shall mean the inability of the JEC to reach agreement on the level of expenditure with respect to a given country in the Territory or the level of aggregate expenditure with respect to Territory
Centralized Expenses in any annual or interim update to any Commercialization Budget.      1.41   Commercialization Plan   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(b).      1.42   Commercialization Plan Deadlock   shall mean the inability of the
JEC to reach agreement on the minimum number of Details to be conducted in a given country in the Territory in any annual or interim update to any Commercialization Plan.      1.43   Commercially Reasonable Efforts   shall mean, with respect to the Commercialization Activities that a Party is required to perform with respect to the Combination Product pursuant to the
Commercialization Plan, the level of effort that would generally be used by a Party to conduct such commercialization activities in a manner consistent with the minimum level of expenditure contemplated for such activities by the Commercialization
Budget for a product or compound owned by it or to which it has rights, which is of comparable market potential, profit potential or strategic value to such Party and is at a similar stage in its development or product life, taking into account,
without limitation, issues of safety and efficacy, product profile, the proprietary position, the then-current competitive environment for  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       5   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 such product or compound (and any individual agent comprising part of such product or compound), the likely timing of the product s or compound s
(and any such individual agent s) entry into the market, the then-current market penetration, the return on investment potential of such product (and any individual agent comprising part of such product), the regulatory environment and status
of the product (and any individual agent comprising part of such product), and other relevant scientific, technical and commercial factors, in each case as measured by the facts and circumstances at the time such efforts are due. Such determination
shall be made on a country-by-country basis.      1.44   Competing Product   shall mean (a) in the case of Gilead Sub as
the Transferring Party, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, and (b) in the case of BMS as the Transferring Party, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor.      1.45   Confidential Information   shall have the meaning set forth in the EU Master Agreement.      1.46   Continuing Party   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.2.      1.47   Contract Manufacturer   shall mean any Third Party contract manufacturer with which Gilead Sub (or any of its permitted successors
or assigns) or any of its Affiliates contracts for the Manufacture of the Combination Product pursuant to the Product Supply Services Agreement.      1.48   Contracting Matters   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a).      1.49   Co-Promote
Country   shall mean any country in the Co-Promote Territory.      1.50   Co-Promote Territory   shall mean (a) all
countries in Territory B and (b) all of the Territory A Co-Promote Countries.      1.51   Co-Promotion Agreement   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 5.2.      1.52   Cost Allocation Proposal   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.9.      1.53   Cost of Goods   shall mean, with respect to an API, the cost of Manufacturing such API as calculated
pursuant to Annex A.      1.54   Country Price   shall have the meaning set forth in Annex C.      1.55   Country-Specific Commercialization Budget   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.7(a).      1.56   Country-Specific Commercialization Plan   shall mean, with respect to a given country, that certain portion of the
Commercialization Plan that specifies the activities (including Details) to be performed with respect to such country.      1.57
  Country-Specific Percentage   shall mean the Gilead Country-Specific Percentage or the BMS Country-Specific Percentage (each as defined in the Financial Agreement), as the case may be.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       6   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.58   Covered Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the EU Master
Agreement.      1.59   Customer   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d).      1.60   Designated EUOC Members   shall mean (a) a member of the EUOC that is designated by BMS from time to time, and (b) a
member of the EUOC that is designated by Gilead Sub from time to time, in each case ((a) and (b)) to resolve disputes with respect to Forecasts and Supporting Data as set forth in Section 6.      1.61   Designated Negotiator   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(c).      1.62   Designated Territory A Countries   shall have the meaning set forth in Annex L.      1.63   Detail   shall mean an in-person presentation to a health care provider who specializes in treatment of HIV infection or AIDS and
has prescribing authority, by a sales representative who is knowledgeable about the Combination Product and any Approved Marketing Materials and the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product, in which
presentation the characteristics of the Combination Product are described by such sales representative in a fair and balanced manner consistent with the requirements of Applicable Law and of this Agreement, and in a manner that is customary in the
industry for the purpose of promoting a prescription pharmaceutical product, but without regard to the position of the presentation within a call to the health care provider. For the avoidance of doubt, a promotional material drop or product
reminder shall not constitute a Detail. When used as a verb, to  Detail  shall mean to engage in a Detail.      1.64
  Directive   shall mean European Parliament and Council Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.      1.65   Discount
Rules   shall mean the rules set forth in Section 2 and Section 3 of Annex C.      1.66   Discounted Price  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d).      1.67   Double Agent Product   shall mean Truvada.      1.68   EDC   shall mean that certain European Development Committee established pursuant to the MAH Shareholder Agreement.      1.69   Effective Date   shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.      1.70   EFV   shall mean efavirenz.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       7   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.71   EFV License Agreement   shall mean that certain license agreement, dated as of
September 1, 1994, as amended on May 18, 1998, March 7, 2000 and the Effective Date (and, if applicable, as otherwise amended prior to the Effective Date), between Merck Parent and Merck and Company, Incorporated, on the one
hand, and E.R. Squibb   Sons, L.L.C., as successor in interest to DuPont Pharmaceuticals Company (formerly The DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Company), on the other hand, as such agreement is amended from time to time.      1.72   Emtriva   shall mean the product sold by Gilead Parent and its Affiliates
under the trademark Emtriva      containing FTC as its only API.      1.73   EU
Marketing Authorization   shall mean that certain marketing authorization granted by the European Commission with respect to Combination Product.      1.74   EU Master Agreement   shall mean that certain EU Master Agreement dated as of the Effective Date by and among the Gilead Sub, BMS, the Supply JV, the MAH and the US JV (or their respective
Affiliates), as amended from time to time.      1.75   EU Operating Committee   or   EUOC   shall mean that
certain operating committee with respect to the Territory established pursuant to Section 2.4.      1.76   EU Pricing Discount
Committee   or   EPDC   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).      1.77   European
Union   shall mean all countries comprising the European Union, as it may be constituted from time to time.      1.78
  Executive(s)   shall mean (a) in the case of Gilead Sub, the Chief Executive Officer of Gilead Parent or any direct report designated by the Chief Executive Officer of Gilead Parent and (b) in the case of BMS, the Chief
Executive Officer of BMS or any direct report designated by the Chief Executive Officer of BMS, in each case ((a) and (b)) who shall not be a member of the JEC, the JFC, the EUOC or any JLOC.      1.79   Existing Discount Customers   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(i).      1.80   Exploitation   shall mean the making, having made, importation, use, sale, offering for sale or disposition of a product or
process, including the research, development, registration, modification, enhancement, Improvement, Manufacturing, optimization, import, export, transport, distribution, promotion or Marketing of a product or process. When used as a verb,
 Exploit  shall mean to engage in any of the foregoing activities.      1.81   Field   shall mean the treatment of HIV
infection in adult humans.      1.82   Field Force   shall mean sales representatives in the Territory, and regional or other
subnational managers of the foregoing.      1.83   Financial Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the EU Master
Agreement.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       8   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.84   Forecast Principles   shall mean the objective forecast principles set forth in
Annex K.      1.85   Forecasts   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(a).      1.86   FTC   shall mean emtricitabine.      1.87   Generic Version   shall mean, with respect to a country in the Territory and a Single Agent Product, Stocrin or Double Agent Product, a product containing the same API(s) as such product, with
those being the only API(s) in such product, and (a) for any country in the European Union, which product is approved for Marketing in any country in the Territory under Article 10, 10a or 10b of Directive 2001/83/EC or any national
implementations of, or regulations promulgated under, such Articles, including Regulation 726/2004 or (b) for any Other European Country, which product is approved for Marketing in such country under any analogous Applicable Law.      1.88   Generic Version Launch   shall mean, with respect to a country in the Territory and the Single Agent Product, Stocrin or the Double
Agent Product, as the case may be, the later of (a) the Launch in such country of at least one (1) Generic Version of such product and (b) the expiration of the last to expire Patent which claims the composition or use (for the
indication of HIV infection in adult humans) of such product or the API(s) contained therein.      1.89   Gilead Licensed
Trademarks   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1(a).      1.90   Gilead Non-Proprietary Product   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(c).      1.91   Gilead Parent   shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals
to this Agreement.      1.92   Gilead Sole-Promote Countries   shall mean those countries specified as such in Annex L.
     1.93   Gilead Sub   shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.      1.94   Gilead Territory-Wide Percentage   shall have the meaning set forth in the Financial Agreement.      1.95   GMP   shall mean (a) applicable good manufacturing practice requirements promulgated by applicable European Community law and
guidance as amended from time to time, including the applicable good manufacturing practices set forth in European Community Directive 2003/94/EC, Directive 2001/83/EC, all relevant implementations of such directives, and relevant guidelines
including Volume 4 of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union: Medicinal products for human and veterinary use: Good manufacturing practices or (b) in the case of each of the Other European Countries, the equivalent of the
foregoing promulgated by the relevant Regulatory Authorities in such country.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       9   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.96   GOA   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(i).   
  1.97   Improvement   shall mean any modification to a compound, composition, product or technology or to any discovery, device, process
or formulation related to such compound, composition, product or technology, whether or not patented or patentable, including any enhancement in the efficiency, operation, Manufacture, ingredients, preparation, presentation, formulation, means of
delivery, packaging or dosage of a compound, composition, product or technology, or of any discovery, device, process or formulation related thereto; any discovery or development of any new or expanded indications or applications for a compound,
composition, product or technology; any discovery or development that improves the stability, safety or efficacy of a compound, composition, product or technology; or any discovery or development of a new dosage regimen for a product or method of
use or administration for a compound, composition, product or technology.      1.98   Independent Accounting Expert   shall mean
an independent Third Party accounting firm or consultant mutually agreed by the Parties.      1.99   Information and
Inventions   shall mean all technical, scientific and other know-how and information, trade secrets, knowledge, technology, means, methods, processes, practices, formulas, instructions, skills, techniques, procedures, experiences, ideas,
technical assistance, designs, drawings, assembly procedures, computer programs, apparatuses, specifications, data, results and other material, including pre-clinical and clinical trial results, Manufacturing procedures, test procedures, and
purification and isolation techniques, (whether or not confidential, proprietary, patented or patentable) in written, electronic or any other form now known or hereafter developed, and all Improvements, whether to the foregoing or otherwise, and all
other discoveries, developments, inventions (whether or not confidential, proprietary, patented or patentable), and tangible embodiments of any of the foregoing.      1.100   Initial Launch Period   shall mean, with respect to each country in the Territory and the Country-Specific Commercialization Plan and Country-Specific Commercialization Budget with respect
thereto, the period commencing with the Launch of the Combination Product in such country and ending twenty-four (24) months after such Launch, or with respect to the Territory Centralized Budget, the period commencing with the Effective Date
and ending twenty-four (24) months after the first Launch of the Combination Product in the Territory.      1.101   Initial Launch
Period Detail Commitment   shall mean, with respect to each Country-Specific Commercialization Plan, that certain minimum number of Details required to be included in such Commercialization Plan for each country in Territory B for the
applicable Initial Launch Period, as set forth in Annex J (which Annex shall be amended by the Parties, prior to the Launch in the applicable country to include such minimum number for any country in Territory B for which such number is not
specified in such Annex as of the Effective Date).      1.102   Initial Launch Period Financial Commitment   shall mean, with
respect to  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       10   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 each Country-Specific Commercialization Budget and the Territory Centralized Commercialization Budget, that certain minimum amount to be specified in such
budget for the applicable Initial Launch Period, as set forth in Annex J (which Annex shall be amended by the Parties, prior to the Launch in the applicable country, to include such minimum amount for any country for which such amount is not
specified in such Annex as of the Effective Date).      1.103   Interim Agreement   shall mean that certain interim agreement
entered into by and between Lawrence Laboratories and Bristol-Myers Squibb EMEA Sarl, on the one hand, and Gilead Sub, on the other hand, dated as of February 1, 2007, as such agreement is amended from time to time.      1.104   Interim Manufacturing Agreement   shall mean that certain interim agreement entered into by and between E.R. Squibb  
Sons, L.L.C. and Bristol-Myers Squibb EMEA Sarl, on the one hand, and Gilead Sub, on the other hand, dated as of June 13, 2007, as such agreement is amended from time to time.      1.105   Joint Executive Committee  or  JEC   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a).      1.106   Joint Finance Committee  or  JFC   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a).      1.107   Joint Local Operating Committee  or  JLOC   shall mean, with respect to a given country in the Co-Promote Territory,
that certain country-specific commercialization committee established pursuant to the Co-Promotion Agreement for such country, to focus on the planning and implementation of Commercialization Activities in such country.      1.108   Launch   shall mean (a) with respect to the Combination Product, the date on which the Combination Product is first shipped
by or on behalf of Gilead Sub or BMS (or their respective Affiliates) to Third Parties in a country, portion of the Territory or the Territory, as the case may be, or (b) with respect to any Generic Version, the date on which such product is
first available for commercial sale and purchase in a country, portion of the Territory or the Territory, as the case may be.      1.109
  Local Demand   shall mean, with respect to a given country in the Territory and with respect to any given period of time specified in any forecast or order prepared hereunder, the unit quantities of the Combination Product required
during such period to meet the treatment needs of HIV patients within such country, as determined objectively in accordance with the Forecast Principles.      1.110   Local Regulatory Lead   shall mean (a) with respect to the BMS Sole-Promote Countries and the BMS Third Party Distributor Countries, BMS or (b) with respect to any other countries in
the Territory, Gilead Sub.      1.111   Local Regulatory Matters   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.
        
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       11   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.112   MAH   shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Gilead Sciences And Merck
Sharp   Dohme Limited, an Irish limited company.      1.113   MAH Shareholder Agreement   shall mean that certain
Shareholder Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006, by and among Gilead Sub, Lawrence Laboratories, the MAH, and Merck Sharp   Dohme B.V. (which, for clarity, is no longer a party to such agreement pursuant to that certain Exit
Agreement among the MAH and its shareholders and Merck and Company, Incorporated, dated as of the Effective Date), governing the conduct of such parties with respect to the MAH s activities, as such agreement is amended from time to time.
     1.114   Manufacture   shall mean with respect to the applicable product or compound, the manufacturing, processing,
formulating, packaging, labeling, holding (including storage), and quality control testing (including release), of such product or compound.      1.115   Market  or  Marketing   shall mean all programs and activities relating to the Promotion and sale and other commercialization of the Combination Product, including Detailing, advertising, and press and media
activities, as well as selling, contracting for sale of, and distributing the Combination Product.      1.116   Maximum Percentage
Discount   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(i).      1.117   Merck Parent   shall mean
Merck   Co., Inc.      1.118   Non-Affected Party   shall mean the Party that is not the Affected Party.      1.119   Non-Affected Product   shall mean (a) Sustiva or Stocrin, as the case may be, in the case of a Generic Version Launch of
Viread, Emtriva or Truvada, or (b) Truvada, in the case of a Generic Version Launch of Sustiva or Stocrin.      1.120   Notice
Address   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.5.      1.121   Operating Committee   shall mean the JFC
or the EUOC, as the case may be.      1.122   Order   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(b).      1.123   Other European Countries   shall mean Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.      1.124   Parent   shall mean, in the case of Gilead Sub or any of its Affiliates, Gilead Parent, and in the case of BMS or any of its
Affiliates, BMS.      1.125   Party  and  Parties   shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       12   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.126   Patents   shall mean (a) all patents and patent applications (including
provisional applications), (b) any substitutions, divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, reissues, renewals, registrations, confirmations, re-examinations, extensions, supplementary protection certificates and the like, and
(c) any foreign or international equivalents of any of the foregoing.      1.127   Person   shall mean an individual, sole
proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, corporation, limited liability company, unlimited company, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other similar entity
or organization, including a government or political subdivision, department or agency of a government.      1.128   Premium  
shall mean, with respect to a given country for which, at any time following the earliest to occur of the Generic Version Launch of Sustiva (or Stocrin, as applicable), Viread, Emtriva or Truvada, the then-current positive difference, if any,
between the [ ] for such country for a given Calendar Year and the sum of the [ ] for such country and such Calendar Year.      1.129
  Premium Share   shall mean, with respect to a given country, a given Party and a given Calendar Year, (a) the Premium for such Calendar Year with respect to such country, multiplied by (b) such Party s Standard
Country-Specific Percentage for the Calendar Year prior to the Calendar Year in which the first Generic Version Launch in such country occurred.      1.130   Price Approval Country   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c)(ii).      1.131   Pricing
Rules   shall mean the rules set forth in Section 1 of Annex C.      1.132   Product SmPC, Labeling and Package
Leaflets   shall mean with respect to a product (a) for each country in the European Union, (i) the Summary of Product Characteristics (as required by the Directive), (ii) any display of written, printed or graphic matter upon
the immediate container, outside container, wrapper or other packaging of a product (including any pricing and reimbursement information and other local information contained within the  blue box  on the packaging of such product that is
not included in the EU annexes attached to the European Commission s Decision with respect to the approval of such product) or (iii) any written, printed or graphic material on or within the package from which a product is to be dispensed,
including the Package Leaflet (as required by the Directive), in each case ((i) through (iii)), as approved by the European Commission or (b) for each of the Other European Countries, the equivalent of each of the foregoing in such country, in
each case, as approved by the applicable Regulatory Authority.      1.133   Product Supply Agreement   shall mean the Product
Supply Agreement dated as of the Effective Date between the Supply JV and Gilead Sub for the supply to Gilead Sub of Combination Product to be distributed in the Territory, as amended from time to time.      1.134   Product Supply Services Agreement   shall mean that certain Product Supply Services Agreement dated as of the Effective Date
between Gilead Sub, in its capacity as Service Provider, and the Supply JV, as amended from time to time.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       13   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.135   Promotion   shall mean the conduct of activities normally undertaken by a
pharmaceutical company s field force to implement plans and strategies for marketing and other commercialization aimed at encouraging the approved use of a pharmaceutical product, including Detailing. When used as a verb,  Promote 
shall mean to engage in any of the foregoing activities.      1.136   Proposed Existing Customer Discount   shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(i).      1.137   Proprietary Product   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.5(c).      1.138   Reference Price Country   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c)(iii).
     1.139   Regulatory Authorities   shall mean any applicable supra-national, federal, national, regional, state, provincial,
or local regulatory agencies, departments, bureaus, commissions, councils, or other government entities, including the European Medicines Agency and the European Commission, or other entity exercising regulatory authority with respect to the
Exploitation of the Combination Product. For the avoidance of doubt, the Regulatory Authorities shall include any entity exercising regulatory authority with respect to the Manufacture of API for supply under any Covered Agreement, whether or not
such entity is located in the Territory.      1.140   Requesting Party   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4.1(e).      1.141   SDEA   shall mean that certain safety data exchange agreement dated as of September 25,
2006, by and among Gilead Parent, BMS and Merck Parent and such other Persons as may be parties thereto from time to time, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.      1.142   Selling Entity   shall mean (a) with respect to each country in the Territory in which Gilead Sub is the Selling Party, the
Affiliate of Gilead Sub that sells Territory Combination Product in such country or (b) with respect to each country in the Territory in which BMS is the Selling Party, the Affiliate of BMS that sells Territory Combination Product in such
country.      1.143   Selling Party   shall mean (a) with respect to each country in the Co-Promote Territory, Gilead Sub
or (b) with respect to each other country in the Territory, BMS or Gilead Sub as set forth in Annex L. For clarity, the Selling Party with respect to any Third Party Distributor Country is intended to be the Party that sells (or has an
Affiliate that sells) Territory Combination Product to the Third Party Distributor and has (or has an Affiliate that has) entered into an applicable distributor agreement with such Third Party Distributor that is consistent with this Agreement.
        
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       14   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.144   Service Provider   shall mean Gilead Sub, acting in its capacity as service
provider to the Supply JV pursuant to the Product Supply Services Agreement.      1.145   Significant Interim Update   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(d).      1.146   Single Agent Product   shall mean each of Viread, Emtriva, and
Sustiva.      1.147   Sole-Promote Countries   shall mean (a) all BMS Sole-Promote Countries and (b) all Gilead
Sole-Promote Countries.      1.148   Sole Promoting Party   shall mean (a) in the case of any BMS Sole-Promote Country, BMS
or (b) in the case of any Gilead Sole-Promote Country, Gilead Sub.      1.149   Standard Country-Specific Percentage 
 shall mean, with respect to a Party, the Country-Specific Percentage of such Party as calculated pursuant to the Financial Agreement (without regard to Section 8.5 of this Agreement).      1.150   Standard Terms   shall mean those certain terms set forth in Annex C of the EU Master Agreement.      1.151   Stocrin   shall mean the product sold under the trademark Stocrin      containing EFV as its only API.      1.152   Subsequent Launch Period  
shall mean (a) with respect to each country in the Territory, the twelve (12) month period immediately following the Initial Launch Period with respect to such country or (b) with respect to the Territory Centralized Budget, the
period immediately following the Initial Launch Period with respect thereto and ending upon the end of the Subsequent Launch Period with respect to the country in the Co-Promote Territory with the latest Launch of the Combination Product.
     1.153   Supply JV   shall mean Tri-Supply Limited, an Irish limited company.      1.154   Supply JV Shareholder Agreement   shall mean that certain Supply JV Shareholder Agreement dated as of the Effective Date by and
among Gilead Sub, Lawrence Laboratories and the Supply JV, as amended from time to time.      1.155   Supporting Data   shall
have the meaning set forth in Annex K.      1.156   Sustiva   shall mean
the product sold by BMS and its Affiliates under the trademark Sustiva      containing EFV as its only API.      1.157   TDF   shall mean tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.      1.158   Term   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 12.1.      1.159   Terminated Party   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 12.2.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       15   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.160   Territory   shall mean the European Union and the Other European Countries.
     1.161   Territory A   shall mean those countries in the Territory, other than any country that is included in Territory B.
For the avoidance of doubt, Territory A shall include any countries that become part of the Territory after the Effective Date. The countries included in Territory A as of the Effective Date are set forth in Annex L.      1.162   Territory A Co-Promote Countries   shall have the meaning set forth in Annex L.      1.163   Territory B   shall mean France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.      1.164   Territory Centralized Budget   shall mean that portion of the Commercialization Budget that sets forth the Territory Centralized
Expenses.      1.165   Territory Centralized Expenses   shall mean those Territory-wide expenses set forth in the
Commercialization Budget ( i.e. , expenses set forth therein that are not designated as country-specific expenses).      1.166
  Territory Centralized Plan   shall mean that portion of the Commercialization Plan setting forth Territory-wide activities ( i.e. , activities in the Commercialization Plan that are not country-specific activities).   
  1.167   Territory Combination Product   shall mean any Combination Product sold or otherwise distributed (or, if not sold or otherwise
distributed, Manufactured for intended sale or other distribution) pursuant to this Agreement.      1.168   Territory Customer
Orders   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).      1.169   Territory Pricing Information   shall mean
Section 4.1(f).      1.170  Territory Marketing Authorization  shall mean (a) with respect to each country in the European
Union, the EU Marketing Authorization and (b) with respect to any of the Other European Countries, any equivalent of the foregoing granted by the relevant Regulatory Authorities in such country.      1.171   Third Party   shall mean any Person other than (a) the Parties or any of their respective Affiliates or (b) the Supply
JV, the MAH or the US JV. For the avoidance of doubt, the exclusion of a Person from the definition of Third Party hereunder shall not be construed to afford such Person any express or implied rights, including third party beneficiary rights,
hereunder.      1.172   Third Party Acquirer   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.2(a).      1.173   Third Party Distributor   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(b)(i).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       16   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   1.174   Third Party Distributor Agreement   shall mean any agreement between a Third
Party Distributor and either Party or any of its Affiliates, which agreement grants such Third Party Distributor the right to distribute the Combination Product in one or more countries in the Territory, including any agreement under which a Third
Party Distributor has the right to purchase Territory Combination Product.      1.175   Third Party Distributor Countries 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(b)(i).      1.176   Trademark   shall include any word, name, symbol,
color, designation or device or any combination thereof, including any trademark, trade dress, service mark, service name, brand mark, trade name, brand name, logo or business symbol.      1.177   Transferring Party   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.2(a).      1.178   Truvada   shall mean the co-formulated product sold by Gilead Parent and
its Affiliates under the trademark Truvada      containing TDF and FTC as its only APIs.      1.179   US JV   shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC.      1.180   US JV
Collaboration Agreement   shall mean that certain Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement by and among Gilead Parent, Gilead Holdings, LLC, BMS, E.R. Squibb   Sons, L.L.C., and the US JV dated as of September 28,
2006, as such agreement is amended from time to time.      1.181   US JV Operating Agreement   shall mean that certain Operating
Agreement entered into as of December 17, 2004 by and between Gilead Holdings, LLC and E.R. Squibb   Sons, L.L.C, as such agreement is amended from time to time.      1.182   Viread   shall mean the product sold by Gilead Parent and its Affiliates
under the trademark Viread      containing TDF as its only API.       SECTION 2  
      COLLABORATION MANAGEMENT       2.1  Generally.       (a) The Parties desire to expand the role of certain committees established under the US JV
Collaboration Agreement and the US JV Operating Agreement as set forth in this Section 2 and elsewhere in this Agreement. In furtherance of such objective, (i) the Joint Executive Committee established under the US JV Operating Agreement
shall serve as the  Joint Executive Committee  or  JEC  for purposes of this Agreement and (ii) the Joint Finance Committee established under the US JV Collaboration Agreement shall serve as the  Joint Finance
Committee  or  JFC  for purposes of this Agreement. In taking any action pursuant to this Agreement, the JEC and the JFC shall each act in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Further, any action taken by the JEC or JFC
pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to have been taken pursuant to, and governed by, this Agreement and not the US JV Collaboration Agreement or the US JV Operating Agreement, as the case may be.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       17   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) The JEC and the JFC, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and
the EUOC and the JLOCs, each shall have only the responsibilities and authority delegated to or vested in such committee in this Section 2 or elsewhere in this Agreement or any other Covered Agreement to which the Parties or their respective
Affiliates are parties.      2.2  Joint Executive Committee.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the JEC shall be governed by, and shall
act in accordance with, Section 6 of the US JV Operating Agreement (without regard to Section 6.2 of such agreement). The JEC shall have overall authority and responsibility with respect to the Commercialization Activities and any other
activities conducted pursuant to the Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement (except for those matters reserved to the Parties or their respective Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement). Without limitation of the
foregoing, the JEC shall have the following powers and duties with respect to the activities conducted pursuant to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement:      (a) to oversee the work of the Operating Committees;      (b) if possible, resolve disputes referred to the JEC by the Alliance Managers pursuant to Section 2.5;      (c) to approve each annual update and Significant Interim Update of the Commercialization Plan or the Commercialization Budget, as the
case may be;      (d) to approve Cost Allocation Proposals;      (e) to approve the JFC s reports submitted hereunder on financial matters that the JEC designates for the implementation of the
financial aspects of the arrangements between the Parties and their Affiliates set forth herein with respect to the Exploitation of Territory Combination Product;      (f) to review recommendations of the JFC with respect to, and approve, one or more means of reconciling, one to the other, the internal
reporting and accounting standards of each of the Parties or its applicable Affiliates where reasonably necessary, and methods of charging costs and expenses of each of the Parties and its applicable Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement and the
Co-Promotion Agreements;      (g) to review and, if applicable, recommend to the Parties changes to the Pricing Rules and
Discount Rules pursuant to Section 4.1(g);      (h) to resolve disputes within the EUOC with respect to (i) the
initially proposed marketing materials for the Combination Product for each country in the Territory, and thereafter, updates of any Approved Marketing Materials, and (ii) a Party s obligation, if any, pursuant to Section 5.11 to
provide the other Party with access to certain of such Party s records, documentation and data;         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       18   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (i) to decide major strategic issues and any other matters relating to the
collaboration between the Parties with respect to the Exploitation of Territory Combination Product that are not (i) within the purview of the EUOC, the JFC or the JLOCs or (ii) reserved to the Parties pursuant to this Agreement;
     (j) to consider any dispute referred to the JEC by a Party pursuant to Section 2.6;      (k) to determine, with respect to each country in the Territory (other than with respect to a Designated Territory A Country or a Third
Party Distributor Country, which, in each case, shall require mutual written agreement of the Parties to Launch the Combination Product in such country), whether Launch of the Combination Product in such country should occur and, if so, the timing
thereof (where the Parties acknowledge that as of the Effective Date, the Launch of the Combination Product in the United Kingdom and Germany has been approved);  provided ,  however,  that, at any time on or after the date on which all of
the Anticipated Agreements have been executed, in the case of any Price Approval Country or Reference Price Country (in each case, other than any Designated Territory A Country), subject to Section 5.1, the Selling Party shall have the right to
Launch the Combination Product at any time after the Approved Price that corresponds to the price at which the Combination Product is to be sold to wholesalers or others purchasing directly from the Selling Party in such country has been
established,  provided  that, in the case of a Price Approval Country, such Approved Price is at or above the Minimum Approved Price for such country; and      (l) to take such other actions as are reserved to the JEC in this Agreement or any Covered Agreement to which the Parties (or their
respective Affiliates) are parties or as the Parties may mutually agree in writing, except that the JEC may not amend or take any action that would conflict with any provision of this Agreement (or such Covered Agreement if applicable).   
  Notwithstanding the enumerated authority of the JEC in this Agreement and the express reservation to the decision-making authority of the Parties with respect to
certain matters herein, in the event that the JEC, acting (i) by unanimous affirmative Member Votes (as defined in the US JV Operating Agreement) pursuant to Section 6.5(d) of the US JV Operating Agreement, or (ii) by unanimous
written consent pursuant to Section 6.5(c) of the US JV Operating Agreement, takes action on a matter relating to the Exploitation of Territory Combination Product, but with respect to which matter authority and responsibility have not been
delegated to or vested in the JEC hereunder, the Parties shall be deemed to waive (and each Party shall cause its Affiliates to waive) any objection to the effect that the JEC acted beyond the scope of its authority or responsibility, and the
resolution of such matter shall be binding on the Parties (and each Party shall cause its Affiliates to be bound) for purposes of this Agreement and any Co-Promotion Agreement.      2.3  Joint Finance Committee.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the JFC shall be governed by, and shall act in accordance with,
Section 2.6(a) and Section 2.7 of the US JV Collaboration Agreement as if such Sections were incorporated herein. Subject to the oversight of the JEC, the JFC shall have the following powers and duties with respect to the activities
conducted pursuant to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement:      (a) to work with (i) the JEC, the EUOC and the
JLOCs to assist in financial, budgeting and planning matters as required, including assisting in the preparation of budgets and annual and long-term plans and (ii) to the extent applicable, to coordinate with the Joint European Finance
Committee with respect to expenses intended to be allocated on a Territory-wide basis and other matters covered by the Financial Agreement;         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       19   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) in coordination with the EUOC, to oversee the work of the JLOCs;      (c) if possible, resolve disputes referred to the JFC by the Alliance Managers pursuant to Section 2.5 or by either Party (or any of
its Affiliates) pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Financial Agreement;      (d) to recommend, for approval by the
JEC, procedures, formats and timelines consistent with this Agreement for reporting financial data as well as additional or alternative reporting procedures concerning financial aspects of the arrangements between the Parties and their Affiliates
with respect to the Exploitation of Territory Combination Product;      (e) to prepare, for approval by the JEC, reports on such
financial matters as are designated by the JEC for the implementation of the financial aspects of the arrangements between the Parties and their Affiliates with respect to the Exploitation of Territory Combination Product;      (f) to make certain determinations and calculations set forth in the Financial Agreement, which determinations and calculations the JFC is
assigned to perform thereunder;      (g) to coordinate audits of financial data where appropriate and required or allowed by
this Agreement or any Covered Agreement to which the Parties or their respective Affiliates are parties;      (h) to address
issues of implementation relating to the financial mechanics and calculations under this Agreement and the Financial Agreement;      (i) to recommend, for approval by the JEC, a means of reconciling, one to the other, the internal reporting and accounting standards of each of the Parties where necessary and the methods of charging costs and expenses of each of the
Parties;      (j) to consider, upon request of Gilead Sub, and designate, if appropriate, any category of costs and expenses
incurred by or on behalf of Gilead Sub in connection with the performance of its obligations under the Product Supply Services Agreement, other than any category that is already included in the Manufacturing Fee or Authorized Expenses (in each case,
as defined in the Product Supply Services Agreement), as an  Approved Manufacturing Fee Category  or approved category of Authorized Expenses (as defined in such agreement), as applicable, for the Territory;         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       20   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (k) to review the appropriate allocation of costs and expenses with respect to
Authorized Expenses, including any Cost Allocation Proposals, and to make recommendations to the JEC with respect to Cost Allocation Proposals;      (l) to calculate or cause to be calculated, as the case may be, those matters expressly required to be calculated (or caused to be calculated) by the JFC, if any, pursuant to this Agreement and, if applicable,
pursuant to any Co-Promotion Agreement;      (m) to provide updates on the JFC s activities and achievements hereunder to
the JEC each Calendar Quarter; and      (n) to perform such other functions as the Parties may mutually agree in writing from
time to time or as the JEC may delegate from time to time.      2.4  EU Operating Committee.         The Parties shall establish the EUOC, which shall have certain responsibilities with respect to the Parties  collaboration under this
Agreement, including to facilitate communications between the Parties with respect to the commercialization of Territory Combination Product, as set forth in this Section 2.4.        (a)  Membership . Each Party shall appoint four (4) members of the EUOC. BMS shall appoint one (1) of the members
designated by BMS to serve as chairperson of the EUOC through the first anniversary of the Effective Date. Thereafter, a member designated by Gilead Sub and then a member designated by BMS shall serve alternately as chairperson, on a rotating annual
basis from each anniversary of the Effective Date. The initial EUOC members and the chairperson are identified in Annex B hereto.      (b)  Authority . Subject to the oversight of the JEC, the EUOC shall have the following powers and duties:      (i) in coordination with the JFC, to oversee the work of the JLOCs;      (ii) if possible, resolve any disputes
referred to the EUOC by the Alliance Managers pursuant to Section 2.5;      (iii) to (A) review and propose to the JEC
for its approval each annual update and Significant Interim Update of the Commercialization Plan and Commercialization Budget and (B) review and approve each interim update other than any Significant Interim Update, in each case ((A) and (B))
proposed pursuant to Section 5.8;      (iv) to oversee and coordinate the Parties  activities under the
Commercialization Plan;      (v) to oversee the distribution of Territory Combination Product;         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       21   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (vi) to develop and approve (A) initial marketing materials for the Combination
Product in the Territory, and (B) updates to such materials from time to time as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate, all in accordance with Section 5.6;      (vii) to review any Cost Allocation Proposals and make recommendations to the JEC with respect to any such proposal;      (viii) to monitor whether the Combination Product is being sold at prices that are permitted by Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules and
the Discount Rules;      (ix) to coordinate matters relating to the Manufacturing and labeling of Territory Combination Product
(to the extent that such matters are not within the authority of the EDC) as set forth in Section 6.1;      (x) to oversee
the activities of any Third Party Distributors;      (xi) to resolve disputes between the Parties with respect to a Party s
obligation, if any, pursuant to Section 5.11 to provide the other Party with access to certain of such Party s records, documentation and data relating to the Commercialization Activities;      (xii) to oversee the forecasting of Local Demand for the Territory;      (xiii) consider and resolve any dispute referred to it by any JLOC pursuant to any Co-Promotion Agreement;      (xiv) to provide updates on the EUOC s activities and achievements to the JEC each Calendar Quarter;      (xv) subject to the MAH Shareholder Agreement to the extent applicable, to oversee medical affairs and medical communication activities
with respect to Territory Combination Product; and      (xvi) to perform such other functions as the Parties may mutually agree
in writing from time to time or as the JEC may delegate from time to time.      (c)  Member Qualifications . Any person
appointed to serve as a member of the EUOC shall have appropriate expertise and be otherwise qualified to serve in such capacity. A member of the EUOC may serve on any other (sub)committee established hereunder. The Parties shall endeavor to match
their respective representation on the EUOC in terms of functional areas and management level.      (d)  Substitutions . A
member of the EUOC may be removed or replaced at any time, with or without cause, by the Party that appointed such member. Such action shall be accomplished by written notice to the other Party. Each member of the EUOC shall serve until a successor
is named by the Party that appointed such committee member (or until his or her earlier resignation or removal).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       22   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (e)  Meetings . The EUOC shall meet at least once per Calendar Quarter until the
second anniversary of the date on which the Combination Product has been Launched in each country in the Territory in which Launch is anticipated to occur or on such other schedule as may be determined by the EUOC. The EUOC shall meet at times and
places mutually agreed by the members of the EUOC. The EUOC shall keep accurate and complete minutes of its meetings to record all proposals, recommendations and actions taken, which minutes shall be taken and approved as set forth in
Section 2.4(f). All such minutes and other records of the EUOC shall be available to each member of the EUOC and each Party.      (f)  Notice and Agendas; Minutes . The Alliance Managers, in collaboration with the chairperson of the EUOC, shall organize committee meetings, prepare the meeting agenda based on items submitted by committee members, take or cause to
be taken accurate minutes of meetings, circulate draft minutes promptly after the meeting for approval by the members of such committee, and circulate final minutes to such members promptly following such approval. Notice of, and the agenda for,
each meeting (and any accompanying materials) shall be circulated to the members of the EUOC so that such materials are received reasonably in advance of such meeting. Any member of the EUOC may waive notice of a meeting thereof, and shall be deemed
to waive such notice if he or she attends the meeting and does not object to the meeting because of a lack of notice prior to its commencement.      (g)  Quorum . At least three (3) members, including at least one (1) member appointed by each Party, shall be in attendance at a meeting of the EUOC to establish a quorum for the conduct of business.
The EUOC members may attend meetings in person or, as long as each attendee is able to hear the others, by telephone or by video conference equipment.      (h)  Voting . Each member of the EUOC shall have one (1) vote on all matters to be acted upon by the EUOC. The EUOC shall take action with respect to a matter only if: (i) a quorum is present at the
time when such matter is to be acted upon by the EUOC; and (ii) the action proposed to be taken is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the EUOC members participating in such meeting, including the affirmative vote of at least one
EUOC member appointed by each Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the EUOC may also act by unanimous written consent of its members without a meeting. If the EUOC is unable to reach agreement on a matter properly presented to the EUOC for its
consideration, the matter shall be resolved as set forth in Section 2.6.      2.5  Alliance Managers.       (a) Gilead Sub and BMS shall each designate within their respective organizations an alliance manager (an   Alliance
Manager  ) with responsibility for facilitating the interaction and cooperation between the Parties with respect to the activities conducted hereunder and under the Co-Promotion Agreements. The initial Alliance Managers are identified in
Annex B hereto. Each Party may change its Alliance Manager from time to time upon written notice to the other Party.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       23   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) The Alliance Managers shall not be members of the JEC or any Operating Committee.
The Alliance Managers shall attend all meetings of the JEC and the EUOC and support the chairpersons of the JEC and the EUOC in the discharge of their responsibilities hereunder. The Alliance Managers shall be nonvoting participants in such
meetings. Each Alliance Manager shall endeavor to create and maintain a collaborative work environment within and among the JEC, and the Operating Committees. In addition, with respect to the activities conducted hereunder and under the Co-Promotion
Agreements, each Alliance Manager: (i) shall coordinate the relevant functional representatives of the Parties; (iii) shall provide a single point of communication for seeking consensus both internally within the respective Parties 
organizations and between the Parties; (iv) shall identify and bring disputes relating to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement (other than any such disputes that, herein or in the applicable Co-Promotion Agreement, are expressly
excluded from the scope of Section 2.6) to the attention of the JEC or the applicable Operating Committee, as appropriate, in a timely manner; (v) shall plan and coordinate cooperative efforts and internal and external communications; and
(vi) shall take responsibility for ensuring that governance activities, such as the conduct of required JEC and Operating Committee meetings and production of meeting minutes, occur as set forth in this Agreement and in the Co-Promotion
Agreements and that relevant action items agreed upon at such meetings are appropriately carried out or otherwise addressed.      2.6
 Resolution of Disputes.       (a) Disputes may be referred to the JEC for resolution, as follows: (i) if an Operating
Committee is unable to reach agreement on a matter properly presented to such Operating Committee for its decision, the Operating Committee shall refer the matter to the JEC; and (ii) either Party may refer to the JEC any issue arising under or
with respect to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement that is not covered by clause (i), other than (A) a dispute arising with respect to Forecasts or Supporting Data (which dispute shall be resolved as set forth in Section 6),
(B) a dispute with respect to a matter within the decision-making authority of the EU Pricing Discount Committee, or (C) a dispute that this Agreement (or the applicable Co-Promotion Agreement) expressly excludes from this
Section 2.6.      (b) If the JEC is unable to resolve a dispute referred to it by an Operating Committee or by a Party
pursuant to Section 2.6(a) within ten (10) days after such referral, or in the event that the JEC is unable to resolve a dispute arising within the JEC, then the dispute shall be referred for resolution to the Executives.      (c) If the Executives are unable to reach agreement on a disputed matter referred to them pursuant to Section 2.6(b) within ten
(10) days after such referral, then either Gilead Sub or BMS may refer the disputed matter to binding arbitration pursuant to Section 6.7 of the Standard Terms if and only if the disputed matter constitutes an Arbitration Matter.
     (d) Each Party shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, refrain from exercising its rights to pursue arbitration under
Section 2.9(c)(A) of the US JV Collaboration Agreement with respect to any disputed matter arising under or with respect to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       24   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.6 to the contrary, the dispute
resolution procedures set forth in Sections 2.6(a) through (c) shall not apply to any deadlock within the JEC or any Operating Committee resulting from a proposal by one Party s member(s) to reverse or modify a decision of the JEC or such
Operating Committee with respect to a matter previously presented to it for decision, unless such proposal is based on new information or changed circumstances relevant to the applicable JEC or Operating Committee decision;  provided ,
 however , that this Section 2.6(e) shall not apply to the deliberations and decisions of the EUOC pursuant to Section 5.6, or the deliberations and decisions of the JEC with respect to any disputes that arise within the EUOC with
respect thereto; and  provided ,  further , that the EUOC s and the JEC s reconsideration of prior decisions with respect to the matters covered by the preceding proviso shall be governed by Section 5.6, and in the event of
any such reconsideration (and any dispute resolution and arbitration in connection therewith), the prior decision in force at the time of reconsideration shall remain in force and continue to apply until such time, if any, as a modified position may
be agreed by the EUOC or the JEC, or adopted by the Executives or, if applicable, the arbitrator(s), as the case may be.      (f) Nothing in this Section 2.6 shall affect the right of a Party to exercise its rights under Section 5.4(a) of the Standard Terms as incorporated herein with respect to a Material Default (as defined in the Standard Terms) by
the other Party concurrently with the exercise of its rights under this Section 2.6. In the event that, at any time prior to completion of the dispute resolution procedures set forth in this Section 2.6, the non-Breaching Party (as defined
in the Standard Terms) delivers a notice of Material Default to the Breaching Party, the cure period set forth in Section 5.4(a) of the Standard Terms shall begin to run upon the receipt of such notice and shall run concurrently with the
procedures set forth in this Section 2.6.      (g) The dispute resolution mechanisms set forth in this Section 2.6
shall be the sole method for resolving any Arbitration Matter or any other matter that is the subject of this Section 2.6.      2.7
 Commercialization Budget Deadlocks; Commercialization Plan Deadlocks.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event of a Commercialization Budget Deadlock or a Commercialization Plan Deadlock, in each case with respect to any
period prior to the end of the Subsequent Launch Period, then in lieu of any other dispute resolution procedures set forth in this Agreement, the Parties agree that the dispute shall be conclusively resolved as follows:      (a) If a Commercialization Budget Deadlock arises with respect to the portion of the Commercialization Budget relating to a given country
(such portion, the   Country-Specific Commercialization Budget  ) for a given Calendar Year (or part thereof) prior to the end of the Initial Launch Period with respect to such country, the level of aggregate expenditure for such
period with respect to such country shall be fixed, upon notice given by a Party to the other Party, at (i) in the case of disputes as to annual updates of such Country-Specific Commercialization Budget, the level of aggregate expenditure for
such period provided for in the Initial Launch Period Financial Commitment (apportioned, if appropriate, to account for a period in dispute that is shorter than twelve (12) months), or (ii) in the case of disputes as to interim updates of
any Country-Specific Commercialization Budget, the level of aggregate expenditure then in effect for the relevant part of the then-current Calendar Year in such Country-Specific Commercialization Budget.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       25   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) If a Commercialization Budget Deadlock arises with respect to any
Country-Specific Commercialization Budget for a given Calendar Year (or part thereof) during the Subsequent Launch Period with respect to such country, the level of aggregate expenditure for such period with respect to such country shall be fixed,
upon notice given by a Party to the other Party, at (A) in the case of disputes as to annual updates of such Country-Specific Commercialization Budget, seventy-five percent (75%) of the level of spending set forth in the Initial Launch
Period Financial Commitment for such country for the second twelve (12) month period of the Initial Launch Period for such country (apportioned, if appropriate, to account for a period in dispute that is shorter than twelve (12) months)
unless both Parties, through their respective representatives on the JEC have proposed levels of aggregate expenditure for such country for such period in dispute both of which are lower than the aforesaid seventy-five percent (75%) level, in
which case the level of aggregate expenditure for such period in dispute with respect to such country shall instead be fixed with respect to such country at the higher of the two levels of aggregate expenditure proposed for such period by the
Parties through their respective representatives on the JEC, or (B) in the case of disputes as to interim updates of such Country-Specific Commercialization Budget, the level of aggregate expenditure then in effect for the relevant part of the
current Calendar Year in such Country-Specific Commercialization Budget.      (c) For any period after the Subsequent Launch
Period with respect to a given country, any aggregate expenditures in the Country-Specific Commercialization Budget for such period for such country shall be decided by the mutual agreement in writing of the Parties; failure to reach agreement
thereon shall not be subject to dispute resolution pursuant to Section 2.6 or otherwise.      (d) Following the resolution
of any Commercialization Budget Deadlock pursuant to this Section 2.7 with respect to a given Calendar Year and a given country, the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith such modifications to the activities set forth in the applicable
Country-Specific Commercialization Plan as may be necessary in light of the modified Country-Specific Commercialization Budget.      (e) Any Commercialization Budget Deadlock that arises with respect to the Territory Centralized Budget for a given Calendar Year (or part thereof) prior to the end of the Initial Launch Period shall be resolved as set forth in
Section 2.7(a) (and Section 2.7(d) shall apply) as if (i) it were a Commercialization Budget Deadlock with respect to a given country, and (ii) the Territory Centralized Budget were a Country-Specific Commercialization Budget.
     (f) The Parties acknowledge and agree that the Territory Centralized Budget shall be established at a level of expenditure
that is reasonably necessary to support the Commercialization Activities being conducted with respect to the countries that have a Country-Specific Commercialization Plan in effect as described in Section 5.8(c). Accordingly, if a
Commercialization Budget Deadlock arises with respect to the Territory Centralized Budget for a given Calendar Year (or part thereof) during the Subsequent Launch Period, the Parties shall  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       26   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 attempt to resolve such dispute based on such principle. If no such agreement can be reached, (i) in the case of disputes as to annual updates thereto,
the level of aggregate expenditure for the Territory Centralized Budget for such period shall be an amount that differs from the Territory Centralized Budget for the previous Calendar Year by the same percentage as the level of aggregate expenditure
set forth in the Country-Specific Commercialization Budgets differs from the level of aggregate expenditure set forth in the Country-Specific Commercialization Budgets for the previous Calendar Year, and (ii) in the case of disputes as to
interim updates to the Territory Centralized Budget, the level of aggregate expenditure for such period shall be the level of aggregate expenditure then in effect for the relevant part of the then-current Calendar Year in such Territory Centralized
Budget. (For example, if the Territory Centralized Budget for a given Calendar Year during the Subsequent Launch Period is in dispute and (A) level of expenditure in the Territory Centralized Budget for the prior Calendar Year was $1 million,
(B) level of expenditure in the Country-Specific Commercialization Budgets, in the aggregate, for such prior Calendar Year was $5 million and (C) the level of expenditure in the Country-Specific Commercialization Budgets, in the aggregate,
for the Calendar Year in dispute is $4 million, then the level of expenditure in the Territory Centralized Budget will be set at $800,000.) Further, Section 2.7(d) shall apply to such Territory Centralized Budget as if it were a
Country-Specific Commercialization Budget.      (g) For any period after the Subsequent Launch Period with respect to the
Territory Centralized Budget, any aggregate expenditures in the Territory Centralized Budget for such period shall be decided by the mutual agreement in writing of the Parties; failure to reach agreement thereon shall not be subject to dispute
resolution pursuant to Section 2.6 or otherwise.      (h) If a Commercialization Plan Deadlock arises with respect to the
Country-Specific Commercialization Plan for a given country for a given Calendar Year (or part thereof) prior to the end of the Initial Launch Period with respect to such country, the minimum number of Details for such period shall be fixed, upon
notice given by a Party to the other Party, at (i) in the case of disputes as to annual updates of such Country-Specific Commercialization Plan, the minimum number of Details for such country set forth in the Initial Launch Period Detail
Commitment for such period (apportioned, if appropriate, to account for a period in dispute that is shorter than twelve (12) months) with respect to such country, or (ii) in the case of disputes as to interim updates of such
Country-Specific Commercialization Plan, the minimum number of Details then in effect for such country for the relevant part of the then-current Calendar Year. For clarity, minimum Detail requirements are not required for any country in Territory A.
     (i) If a Commercialization Plan Deadlock arises with respect to the Country-Specific Commercialization Plan for any country
for a given Calendar Year (or part thereof) during the Subsequent Launch Period with respect to such country, (i) the minimum number of Details for such period with respect to such country shall be fixed, upon notice given by a Party to the
other Party, at (A) in the case of disputes as to annual updates of such Country-Specific Commercialization Plan, seventy-five percent (75%) of the minimum number of Details for such period for such country set forth in the Initial Launch
Period Financial Commitment for the second twelve (12) month period of the Initial Launch Period for such country (apportioned, if appropriate, to account for a period in dispute that is shorter than twelve (12) months) unless  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       27   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 both Parties, through their respective representatives on the JEC have proposed minimum numbers of Details for such period in dispute both of which are lower
than the aforesaid seventy-five percent (75%) level, in which case the minimum number of Details for such period in dispute with respect to such country shall instead be fixed with respect to such country at the higher of the two minimum
numbers proposed by the Parties for such period in dispute through their respective representatives on the JEC, or (B) in the case of disputes as to interim updates of such Country-Specific Commercialization Plan, the minimum number of Details
then in effect for the relevant part of the current Calendar Year for such country in the Commercialization Plan. For clarity, minimum Detail requirements are not required for any country in Territory A.      (j) For any period commencing after the Subsequent Launch Period with respect to a given country, the minimum number of Details for such
country for such period shall be decided by the mutual agreement in writing of the Parties; failure to reach agreement thereon shall not be subject to dispute resolution pursuant to Section 2.6 or otherwise.      2.8  Relationship to Other Committees.  The EUOC and, with respect to the Territory, the JEC and the JFC shall each coordinate with the EDC and any
other committees established pursuant to any Covered Agreement to which the Parties (or their respective Affiliates) are parties, as appropriate, and shall act in a manner consistent with the decisions of the EDC or any such other committee made
pursuant to the applicable agreement.      2.9  Committee-Related Expenses.  Gilead Sub and BMS shall each bear its own expenses related
to the operations of the JEC, the Operating Committees and the JLOCs, including all expenses relating to the meetings of such committees, the participation of the Parties  representatives in such meetings, communications with the other Party in
connection with such meetings or matters within the authority of the committees, and travel to and from such meetings, and such expenses shall not be deemed Authorized Expenses.       SECTION 3        REGULATORY MATTERS       3.1  Generally.  This Section 3 shall govern any country-specific regulatory matters arising with respect to Territory Combination Product that
are not governed by Section 4.1 (and the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules), the MAH Shareholder Agreement or the SDEA (any such regulatory matters,   Local Regulatory Matters  ). In the event of a conflict between this
Section 3 and any provision of any of the foregoing agreements, such provision of such agreement shall control and this Agreement shall be construed in a manner consistent with such provision. For clarity, any Party that is the Local Regulatory
Lead with respect to any Third Party Distributor Country may delegate its responsibilities hereunder as the Local Regulatory Lead to the Third Party Distributor in such country.      3.2  Regulatory Filings.  Under the oversight of the EUOC (which shall coordinate with the EDC as appropriate) and participation of each Party as
set forth in this Section 3, Gilead Sub and BMS (or their respective designated Affiliates) shall jointly prepare any submissions with respect to any Local Regulatory Matter and the Local Regulatory Lead shall have primary responsibility for
filing such submissions with the applicable Regulatory Authority. All  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       28   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 submissions with respect to any Local Regulatory Matter shall be approved in advance by the applicable JLOC (or in the case in which (a) disclosing the
applicable submission to the JLOC would violate Section 3.3 or (b) there is no JLOC with respect to the applicable country in the Territory ( e.g. , in the case of a Sole-Promote Country), the EUOC). Each member of such committee
shall indicate, within a time period to be established by such committee with respect to the applicable submission, whether he or she approves such proposed submission;  provided,  that such time period shall, in each case, allow the Local
Regulatory Lead sufficient time to comply with Applicable Law and any deadlines required or reasonably requested by the applicable Regulatory Authority with respect to such submission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the review and approval
requirements of this Section 3.2 shall not apply to any minor regulatory submissions of an administrative nature;  provided, however,  that the Local Regulatory Lead shall make copies of such submissions available to the other Party for
review promptly upon request of the other Party.      3.3  Regulatory Documentation.       (a) Notwithstanding the restrictions on use set forth in Section 5.4(b) of the MAH Shareholder Agreement, subject to
Section 3.3(d), each Party (and its Affiliates) shall have the right to use any BMS Regulatory Documentation and Gilead Regulatory Documentation (each, as defined in the MAH Shareholder Agreement) provided or made available pursuant to such
Section to the extent reasonably necessary to comply with Applicable Law. Further, without limitation of the foregoing, in the event that a Party desires to use such information of the other Party to perform its obligations hereunder and does not
have the right to use such information pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, such first Party shall obtain the consent of such other Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.      (b) Subject to Section 3.3(d), in the event that either Party (or any of its Affiliates) reasonably requires any information in the
possession and control of the other Party (other than any BMS Regulatory Documentation and Gilead Regulatory Documentation described in the foregoing clause (a)) to comply with Applicable Law, the Parties shall coordinate in good faith to ensure
that such information is provided by the applicable Party to the other Party for such purpose in a timely manner. Further, without limitation of the foregoing, in the event that a Party desires to use any such information of the other Party to
perform its obligations hereunder, such first Party shall obtain the consent of such other Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, and if such consent is obtained, the consenting Party shall provide such information to such first Party.
     (c) In the event that a Party (or its EUOC representatives) does not provide the consent required pursuant to this
Section 3.3 to permit the other Party to obtain or use any BMS Regulatory Documentation, Gilead Regulatory Documentation or other information, or does not provide any such information, then, to the extent that such information is reasonably
required for the other Party to perform its obligations hereunder, such other Party shall not be obligated to perform such obligations.      (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.3 to the contrary, except as provided in this Section 3.3(d) or required by the SDEA, (i) Gilead Sub shall not provide or  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       29   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 make available any BMS Regulatory Documentation or other information provided by BMS to Gilead Sub pursuant to this Section 3.3 that relates to EFV as
an API to any local country Affiliate of Gilead Sub without the prior written consent of BMS (or consent of its EUOC representatives),  provided  that such consent may not be unreasonably withheld if the information is required to be submitted
for regulatory or other legal reasons; and (ii) BMS shall not provide or make available any Gilead Regulatory Documentation or other information provided by Gilead Sub to BMS pursuant to this Section 3.3 that relates to either TDF or FTC
as an API, or to both, to any local country Affiliate of BMS without the prior written consent of Gilead Sub (or consent of its EUOC representatives),  provided  that such consent may not be unreasonably withheld if the information is required
to be submitted for regulatory or other legal reasons. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that a local country Affiliate of a Party is required under Applicable Law to provide any of the foregoing information of the other Party to any
Regulatory Authority, such first Party shall be permitted to provide such information to such local country Affiliate if and only if (x) such first Party has first notified the other Party and allowed such other Party an opportunity to provide
such information directly to such Regulatory Authority, if and to the extent that such direct provision would fulfill such local country Affiliate s obligation under Applicable Law, and (y) to the extent such information is Confidential
Information of the other Party, such first Party ensures that the information related to the other Party s API(s) that is provided to a local country Affiliate of such first Party is only used for Permitted Purposes (as defined in the EU Master
Agreement) and in accordance with this Section 3.3 and not for any other purpose. In the event that a Party determines that it is reasonably necessary to provide any such information of the other Party to such first Party s local country
Affiliate for the purpose of fulfilling such first Party s obligations hereunder, such other Party shall consider a request of such Party to do so. Such other Party shall not unreasonably withhold or delay its request to any such request. If
such request is denied, for the avoidance of doubt, Section 3.3(c) shall apply.      (e) For the avoidance of doubt,
nothing set forth in this Section 3 or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be construed to limit the rights and obligations of the Parties or its Affiliates with respect to safety-related information, data or other documentation required to be
provided, maintained or disclosed pursuant to the SDEA.      3.4  Regulatory Communications.  Communications regarding any Local
Regulatory Matter shall be treated (a) with respect to countries for which Gilead Sub is the Local Regulatory Lead, as if such communications were communications covered by Section 5.4(d) and Section 5.4(e) of the MAH Shareholder
Agreement, without giving effect to either such Section to the extent it affords the MAH any rights with respect thereto, or (b) with respect to countries for which BMS is the Local Regulatory Lead, as if BMS were the Regulatory Lead (as
defined in the MAH Shareholder Agreement) under the MAH Shareholder Agreement and as if such communications were communications covered by Section 5.4(d) and Section 5.4(e) of the MAH Shareholder Agreement, without giving effect to either
such Section to the extent it affords the MAH any rights with respect thereto.      3.5  Medical Affairs and Medical Communications. 
     (a) Subject to this Section 3.5 and the MAH Shareholder Agreement, the Parties shall determine independently how to
utilize and deploy their respective medical science liaisons for activities relating to the Combination Product in each country in the Territory.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       30   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) Subject to the MAH Shareholder Agreement, the EUOC shall develop and approve
presentation materials for use by each Party s medical science liaisons when engaging in activities to support the Combination Product. Each Party s medical science liaisons shall use only such approved presentation materials and any
standard response documents approved pursuant to the MAH Shareholder Agreement in connection with such activities. The EUOC shall develop, and the Parties shall implement, procedures to coordinate the training of each Party s medical science
liaisons on any approved presentation materials and standard response documents.      (c) Each Party shall cause its (and its
Affiliates ) medical science liaisons to comply with the provisions of this Section 3.5 and the MAH Shareholder Agreement.      3.6
 Records.  Each Party shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records with respect to its activities pursuant to this Section 3 in sufficient detail and in material compliance with Applicable Law.   Such records shall be retained
for at least (a) three (3) years or (b) such longer period as may be required by Applicable Law.      3.7  Compliance-Related
Matters.       (a)  Role of QPPV . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, nothing herein shall preclude the
QPPV (as defined in the MAH Shareholder Agreement) for the Combination Product from performing his or her obligations as QPPV for the Combination Product under Applicable Law and no such performance, to the extent reasonably required by Applicable
Law, shall constitute a breach of this Agreement by either Party.      (b)  Certain Compliance Matters . Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, and except as otherwise provided in the Co-Promotion Agreements, as between the Parties, each Party shall have sole responsibility for any submissions to, or communications with, any Regulatory Authority in the
Territory with respect to any matter relating to such Party s or any of its Affiliates  or subcontractors  compliance with Applicable Law in connection with its performance of (i) such Party s Commercialization Activities or
(ii) any other activities of such Party or any of its Affiliates or subcontractors under any Co-Promotion Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.7(b) to the contrary, the foregoing shall not apply to any submissions or
communications made in connection with obtaining or maintaining the applicable Territory Marketing Authorization.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       31   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   3.8  Local Regulatory Expenses.  Any external, out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by
either Party in connection with the performance of its obligations under this Section 3 (other than Section 3.7(b)) shall constitute Authorized Other Expenses.       SECTION 4        PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT       4.1  Pricing and Reimbursement; Discounts.  The provisions set forth in this Section 4.1 and Annex C shall apply to the pricing of Territory
Combination Product sold by the Selling Entity or any of its applicable Affiliates to any Third Party and shall not be construed to apply to the pricing of any other Combination Product (or any other sale). The Selling Party shall cause the Selling
Entity to sell the Combination Product at prices that comply with the determinations of the EU Pricing Discount Committee (as defined below) made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4, the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules, except to the extent mutually agreed in writing by the Parties, this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules shall not apply with respect to
any Third Party Distributor Country.      (a)  European Pricing Discount Committee .      (i) Each Party shall appoint two (2) members of a committee to determine any discounts to be applied in connection with the sale of
Territory Combination Product (the   EU Pricing Discount Committee   or   EPDC  ). One (1) representative from each Party (the   Business Representative  ) shall be an employee of such Party (or any
of its Affiliates) and shall not be, at the time of his or her appointment, or at any time during his or her service on the EPDC, otherwise involved, directly or indirectly, in the pricing of such Party s (or any of its Affiliates )
antiviral products ( provided , that for purposes of this Section 4.1(a)(i), duties solely with respect to accounts receivable analysis, bookkeeping and accounting shall not, without more, be deemed involvement in pricing). The other
representative from each Party (the   Attorney Representative  ) shall be an attorney for such Party. Such representatives shall have skills reasonably appropriate to their responsibilities and functions as members of the EPDC.
Furthermore, each Party covenants that, for twelve (12) months immediately after an individual s service on the EPDC (or for such shorter period as he or she is employed by such Party or its Affiliate), he or she will not be assigned to a
function or position that involves, directly or indirectly, the pricing of such Party s (or any of its Affiliates ) antiviral products. Each Party shall have the right to approve the other Party s proposed Business Representative and
Attorney Representative on the EPDC (or any replacement therefor), which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Subject to the preceding sentence, each Party shall have the right to replace its Business Representative or Attorney
Representative from time to time during the term of this Agreement,  provided  that the composition of the EPDC as so changed meets the requirements set forth above in this Section 4.1(a)(i). For the avoidance of doubt, the EPDC is not an
Operating Committee.      (ii) Each Party shall be responsible for the performance of its representatives on the EPDC and their
compliance with the terms of this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules. Any issue regarding the functioning of the EPDC shall be  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       32   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 reviewed jointly by the Parties  respective Attorney Representatives. Each Party shall bear its own expenses related to the EPDC, including all expenses
relating to the meetings of the EPDC, the participation of the Parties  representatives in such meetings, communications with the other Party in connection with such meetings or matters within the authority of the EPDC, and travel to and from
such meetings, and such expenses shall not be deemed Authorized Expenses.      (iii) The EU Pricing Discount Committee shall
meet at least each Calendar Quarter (which meeting may be conducted by telephone or videoconference equipment, so long as each attendee is able to hear the others), and as otherwise required from time to time, to determine such matters as are within
the jurisdiction of the EU Pricing Discount Committee as set forth in this Section 4.1.      (iv) The EU Pricing Discount
Committee shall perform only such functions as are assigned to the EU Pricing Discount Committee hereunder. The EU Pricing Discount Committee shall apply the Discount Rules to make such calculations and determinations as are specified in the
Discount Rules.      (v) The representatives of each Party on the EU Pricing Discount Committee shall, in connection with any
proposed GOA with respect to a Customer, provide the EU Pricing Discount Committee with (A) if applicable, its Proposed Existing Customer Discount, and (B) such other limited pricing information, if any, with respect to such Customer as
the Attorney Representatives shall agree is necessary and appropriate.      (vi) In the event that interpretation or application
of the Discount Rules is necessary in order to implement the provisions of the Discount Rules, the Business Representatives shall discuss the matter with the Attorney Representatives and attempt to resolve the matter by consensus. In the event that
the Attorney Representatives disagree regarding any such interpretation or application, either Attorney Representative may refer the dispute to the JEC for resolution pursuant to Section 2.6.      (vii) The EU Pricing Discount Committee may determine, by consensus and in its sole discretion, to retain independent legal counsel, in
which case the expenses of such counsel shall be deemed to be Authorized Other Expenses.      (b)  Default Rules and Related
Matters .      (i) In the event that, after following the procedures set forth in this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules
and the Discount Rules, as applicable, to completion (including those set forth in Section 3 of Annex C, if applicable), the Parties are unable to agree upon (A) any modification of a Country Price for a given country, the existing Country
Price shall remain in effect, except in the case of a permitted modification to the existing Country Price pursuant to the Pricing Rules; or (B) a GOA (as defined below) with respect to a Customer, there shall be no GOA with respect to such
Customer, except in the case of a GOA that applies automatically to an Existing Discount Customer pursuant to Section 4.1(d) or in the event that a GOA has been previously established pursuant to the Discount Rules or in the case of a permitted
modification to the GOA with respect to a given Customer pursuant to this Section 4.1  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       33   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 or the Discount Rules. In the event that there is no GOA with respect to a given Customer, the Selling Party shall not, and shall cause the Selling Entity
not to, enter into any contract with respect to the Combination Product with such Customer at a price less than the applicable Country Price. Further, in the event that the Parties cannot (x) reach agreement on a Country Price with respect to a
country other than a Price Approval Country or Reference Price Country, or (y) obtain any initial pricing approval required by a national pricing authority in a Price Approval Country [ ] (as defined in Annex C), the Combination Product
shall not be Launched in such country. For clarity, Launch of the Combination Product in any Designated Territory A Country shall occur solely if and when approved by the Parties. Further, Launch in any Third Party Distributor Country or any country
for which BMS is the Selling Party shall occur solely as provided in Section 5.1.      (ii) Notwithstanding
Section 4.1(b)(i) or any other provision of this Agreement, in the event that, following the Launch of the Combination Product in a given Price Approval Country or Reference Price Country, any national pricing authority in such country reduces
(despite the commercially reasonable efforts of the Selling Party or without advance notice to the Selling Party) an Approved Price to a price that is [ ] the Selling Party shall submit to the other Party, promptly following the date on which
the Selling Party becomes aware that such a reduction has been imposed and in no event less than twenty (20) Business Days after such date, the Selling Party s good faith interpretation of how such reduced Approved Price should be
implemented and the effect of such reduced Approved Price on other prices with respect to the Combination Product in the country in which such Approved Price applies and on any Approved Prices in other countries in the Territory. If the non-Selling
Party, based on its good faith assessment, objects in writing within ten (10) Business Days that the Selling Party s interpretation is incorrect, the dispute resolution provisions of Section 2.6 shall apply and, if such matter is not
resolved by the Executives within the time period set forth therein, the matter shall constitute an Arbitration Matter. Prior to the resolution of such matter pursuant to Section 2.6, the Selling Party shall continue to fulfill orders for the
Combination Product in the Territory (unless and until the Combination Product is withdrawn in such country by mutual written agreement of the Parties) and shall fulfill such orders at a price that is consistent with the Selling Party s good
faith interpretation of any adjustment to the Country Price for the applicable country that shall be required to comply with the new Approved Price. Following the resolution of such matter pursuant to Section 2.6, the Country Price for the
applicable country shall be adjusted in accordance with such resolution. In the event that the non-Selling Party does not object to the Selling Party s interpretation of any new Approved Price pursuant to this Section 4.1(b) within the
time period required for such objection, the Country Price with respect to the applicable country shall be adjusted to reflect the Selling Party s interpretation of such new Approved Price. In no event shall (A) an incorrect interpretation
of any adjusted Approved Price, or the effect of such an adjustment on the Country Price, or (B) any sales by the Selling Party or the Selling Entity made based on such interpretation, constitute a breach of this Agreement, so long as such
interpretation was made in good faith by the Selling Party.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       34   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (c)  Country Prices and Pricing Approvals .      (i) In each country in the Territory, the respective Selling Party shall cause the respective Selling Entity to sell Territory Combination
Product to any Third Party in such country at the Country Price for such country except as otherwise permitted in this Section 4.1, including Section 4.1(d).      (ii) For any country for which, as a matter of Applicable Law, the applicable Regulatory Authority approves a maximum reimbursement price
or a maximum price at which the Selling Party may sell the Combination Product in such country (each, a   Price Approval Country  ), the Country Price (as defined in Annex C) shall be set in accordance with this
Section 4.1(c)(ii) and the Pricing Rules. Without limitation of any other country in the Territory that may constitute a Price Approval Country, the Parties acknowledge and agree that, as of the Effective Date, the United Kingdom, France, Italy
and Spain each constitute a Price Approval Country. Except as otherwise agreed by the Parties, the Selling Party shall be responsible for managing the negotiation with the relevant agency in each country relating to obtaining and maintaining such
reimbursement or other pricing approval. In conducting such negotiations, the Selling Party shall cooperate with the other Party and act in accordance with this Section 4.1(c)(ii) and the Pricing Rules. For each Price Approval Country, the
Selling Party with respect to such country shall be responsible for any reporting required in connection with obtaining and maintaining reimbursement or other pricing approvals for the Combination Product in such country and shall handle dealings
with any applicable agencies with respect to compliance with the rules, regulations and guidelines of such agencies with respect to obtaining and maintaining reimbursement or other pricing approvals for the Combination Product;  provided,
however,  that the Selling Party shall provide to the other Party a copy of the initial submission for obtaining reimbursement or other pricing approval for the Combination Product in each Price Approval Country in the Territory for review in
advance of its filing. The Selling Party shall promptly furnish the other Party with a copy of all materials received from such agencies, together with all reports and other communications submitted by the Selling Party to such agencies, in each
case solely to the extent relating to Territory Combination Product. In addition, at least five (5) Business Days prior to filing any periodic reports with such agencies pursuant to this Section 4.1(c)(ii), the Selling Party shall furnish
the other Party with a copy of such report.      (iii) For any country for which, as a matter of Applicable Law, the applicable
Regulatory Authority determines the maximum reimbursement price or the maximum price at which the Selling Party may sell the Combination Product using reference pricing based on the pricing of Combination Product in one or more other countries
(each, a   Reference Price Country  ), the Selling Party shall notify the other Party promptly of the approved reference price (any such price, an   Approved Reference Price  ) for the Combination Product in such
country once such price has been set, or thereafter modified by the Regulatory Authority in the country. The Country Price for any Reference Price Country shall be determined as set forth in Section 1(B) of the Pricing Rules. Without limitation
of any other country in the Territory that may constitute a Reference Price Country, the Parties acknowledge and agree that, as of the Effective Date, the Republic of Ireland constitutes a Reference Price Country. Except as otherwise agreed by the
Parties, the Selling Party shall be responsible for managing the discussions with the relevant agency in the Reference Price Country relating to obtaining and  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       35   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 maintaining such reference pricing approval. For each Reference Price Country, the Selling Party with respect to such country shall be responsible for any
reporting required in connection with obtaining and maintaining reference pricing approvals for the Combination Product in such country and shall handle dealings with any applicable agencies with respect to compliance with the rules, regulations and
guidelines of such agencies with respect to obtaining and maintaining reference pricing approvals for the Combination Product;  provided, however,  that the Selling Party shall provide to the other Party a copy of the initial submission for
obtaining reference pricing approval for the Combination Product in each Reference Price Country in the Territory for review in advance of its filing. The Selling Party shall promptly furnish the other Party with a copy of all materials received
from such agencies, together with all reports and other communications submitted by the Selling Party to such agencies, in each case solely to the extent relating to Territory Combination Product in such country. In addition, at least five
(5) Business Days prior to filing any periodic reports with such agencies pursuant to this Section 4.1(c)(iii), the Selling Party shall furnish the other Party with a copy of such report.      (iv) Any country in the Territory for which the Country Price is not established pursuant to Section 4.1(c)(ii) or 4.1(c)(iii), the
Country Price for such country shall be determined based on Section 1(C) of the Pricing Rules. The Parties acknowledge and agree that, as of the Effective Date, Germany is governed by this Section 4.1(c)(iv) and Section 1(C) of the
Pricing Rules (which classification shall be without limitation of any other countries in the Territory that may be so governed).      (v) Prior to the commencement of pricing negotiations in any country in Territory A, the EUOC shall designate such country in the Territory as a Price Approval Country, a Reference Price Country, or a country for which the Country Price is
governed by Section 4.1(c)(iv).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       36   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (d)  Customer Discounts .      (i) This Section 4.1(d) shall cover any request by any customer, whether a public or private entity (each, a
  Customer  ), to purchase, or otherwise establish the price for any proposed sale of ( e.g. , in the case in which such entity is a third-party payor), the Combination Product at a price that is lower than the Country Price for
the applicable country (such price, a   Discounted Price  ). The EU Pricing Discount Committee shall be responsible, on an on going basis, for calculating and providing to the Selling Party any grant of authority
(  GOA  ) as calculated in accordance with this Section and the Discount Rules with respect to each Customer that seeks to obtain a Discounted Price. The GOA, if any, for each Customer shall serve as the maximum discount that may be
offered by the Selling Party (or its applicable Affiliate) in its negotiations with such Customer. The Selling Party shall cause the applicable Selling Entity not to sell any Territory Combination Product to any Customer at a price, or agree to a
reimbursement price for the Combination Product in connection with any formulary listing of a Customer, that is less than the price calculated by applying the GOA, if any, for such Customer. The term for any agreement to sell Combination Product to
a Customer at a Discounted Price shall not exceed  [ * ]  or, if applicable, such longer period as is agreed by the Parties pursuant to Section 2(D) of the Pricing Rules.      (ii) At least thirty (30) days prior to the Launch of the Combination Product in each country in the Territory (or such shorter
period as is mutually agreed by the Parties), each Party shall submit to the EPDC  [ * ]       (iii) In the event that
any Customer, including an Existing Discount Customer, requests a Discounted Price, the Discount Rules shall apply.      (e)
 Independent Accounting Expert . Either Party (the   Requesting Party  ) may, upon written notice to the other Party, cause the Independent Accounting Expert to confirm the accuracy, with respect to any Customer, of (i) any
calculation by the EU Pricing Discount Committee or (ii) any pricing or discounting information provided to the EU Pricing Discount Committee or to the other Party pursuant to this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules,
including any Net Component Price (as defined in Annex C) so provided. In such case, each Party and the EU Pricing Discount Committee shall cooperate with the Independent Accounting Expert and (upon the Independent Accounting Expert s entry
into an appropriate confidentiality agreement) provide him or her with the data necessary to make the requisite calculations. Further, upon the written request of either Party, the calculations of the Independent Accounting Expert shall be audited
by a second Third Party mutually agreed by the Parties. The Independent Accounting Expert and the Third Party auditor, if any, shall notify the JEC of their respective determinations, which notifications shall not contain any information provided to
such Independent Accounting Expert (or such Third Party auditor) by either Party. The calculations made by the Independent Accounting Expert pursuant to this Section 4.1(e) shall be binding upon the EU Pricing Discount Committee and the
Parties;  provided ,  however , that in the event that a Third Party auditor identifies a discrepancy in the Independent Accounting Expert s calculations, the Parties shall cause the Independent Accounting Expert and such Third Party
auditor to confer and agree upon the final calculations and advise the Parties in writing of same, whereupon such final agreed calculations shall be binding on the Parties. The  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       37   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 Requesting Party shall bear the fees and costs of the Independent Accounting Expert and any Third Party auditor in connection with his or her engagement
pursuant to this Section 4.1(e). Nothing in this Section 4.1(e) shall be deemed to limit any remedy available to either Party in the event of a breach of any of the provisions of this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules or the Discount
Rules by the other Party. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, such breach shall not be subject to the cure provisions set forth in Section 5.4 of the Standard Terms as incorporated herein. For clarity, Section 4.5,
and not this Section, governs the audit of the Net Selling Prices of Stocrin provided by Merck Parent or its applicable Affiliate.      (f)  Pricing Information . All information provided to the EU Pricing Discount Committee that is not publicly available (  Territory Pricing Information  ) shall be considered Confidential Information of the disclosing
Party and shall be used solely for the purpose of making the applicable calculation under the Discount Rules and setting any applicable GOAs and for no other purpose. Notwithstanding Section 4 of the EU Master Agreement, except as expressly
permitted by this Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules, each Party shall cause its representatives to not disclose any Territory Pricing Information of the other Party except to (i) counsel, the Independent Accounting
Expert, or any Third Party auditor selected pursuant to Section 4.1(e), or (ii) the extent permitted by Section 4.2(a) of the EU Master Agreement (but not any other subsection of Section 4.2 of the EU Master Agreement). All
Territory Pricing Information shall be segregated in locked or password protected files maintained by the EU Pricing Discount Committee, which files shall not be accessible by Persons other than the members of EU Pricing Discount Committee (and as
required, counsel, the Independent Accounting Expert and any Third Party auditor performing activities described in this Section 4). Without limiting the foregoing, each Party shall cause its representatives not to reference or use, directly or
indirectly, any information from the EU Pricing Discount Committee in pricing its or any of its Affiliate s own products.      (g)  Review of Rules . On an annual basis, or as requested by either Attorney Representative in the event that such representative believes that the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules do not cover a scenario with respect to Territory
Combination Product that needs to be addressed, the JEC shall review the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules (in each case, as most recently modified pursuant to this Section 4.1(g), if applicable) in light of the then-prevailing market
conditions and any marketing and sales strategies agreed by the Parties. If appropriate, the JEC shall recommend to the Parties changes to the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules. For the avoidance of doubt, the JEC s action or inaction under
this Section 4.1(g) shall not be subject to arbitration. If (and only if) the Parties agree in writing to any changes to the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules, as the case may be, proposed by the JEC, then the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules,
as applicable, as so changed shall be deemed to be the  Pricing Rules  or the  Discount Rules  hereunder.      4.2
 Pricing and Other Contract Negotiations.       (a) As between the Parties (and their respective Affiliates), the
applicable Selling Entity (and its Affiliates) shall have sole responsibility for conducting pricing and discounting negotiations (and all other contracting matters) with respect to the Combination Product with Customers in the applicable country in
the Territory in accordance with the Pricing  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       38   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 Rules;  provided, however,  that except as otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, subject to Section 5.1, the Third Party Distributor in any
Third Party Distributor Country shall have all rights and responsibilities with respect to the foregoing activities.      (b)
Each Party shall ensure that none of its employees or contractors, other than a Designated Negotiator (as defined below), conduct any negotiations with any Customer in the Territory with respect to pricing or discounting matters (or any other terms
of any contract to be entered into between such a Customer and the applicable Selling Entity or its applicable Affiliate) with respect to the Combination Product (such matters,   Contracting Matters  ) or discuss the availability of
discounts to such Customer (or any other matter with respect to discounts with respect to the Combination Product) without the prior consent of a Designated Negotiator.      (c) For each country other than a Third Party Distributor Country, a   Designated Negotiator   shall mean an employee(s) of
the applicable Selling Entity (or its applicable Affiliate) that has been authorized by the applicable Selling Entity (or such Affiliate), from time to time, to conduct price and discount negotiations with Customers in the applicable country in the
Territory. The applicable Selling Party shall cause the applicable Selling Entity to keep the non-Selling Party (or its applicable Affiliate) apprised, from time to time, of the names(s) and contact information for the Designated Negotiator(s).
     (d) In the event that any Customer desires to discuss any Contracting Matter, the non-Selling Party shall ensure that such
matter is referred to a Designated Negotiator (or in the case of a Third Party Distributor Country, the Third Party Distributor).      4.3
 Consequence of Generic Launch on Pricing  .  The consequences of a Generic Version Launch on pricing and discounting shall be solely as set forth in the applicable sections of the Pricing Rules and Discount Rules. For the avoidance of
doubt, nothing in such sections shall be construed to modify the Parties  respective rights and obligations with respect to the calculation of the Parties  respective Country-Specific Percentages (as set forth in the Financial Agreement,
as modified by Section 8.5) with respect to the applicable country or any other related calculations under any other Covered Agreement.      4.4  Pricing of Single Agent Products/Double Agent Product.  Gilead Sub and BMS shall each retain sole discretion with respect to price-setting and discounts for its respective Single Agent Products and Double Agent Product.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Party covenants that it shall act in good faith in setting the price and discounts for its respective Single Agent Products and Double Agent Product in the Territory and shall not directly or indirectly manipulate
pricing or discounting arrangements of its own Single Agent Products or Double Agent Product in the Territory solely or primarily for the purpose of increasing the Gilead Territory-Wide Percentage or the BMS Territory-Wide Percentage, as the case
may be, or any Country-Specific Percentage.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       39   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   4.5  Net Selling Price of Stocrin Information.  Unless and until BMS acquires rights to
commercialize Stocrin in the Territory, the following shall apply:      (a) BMS shall cause Merck Parent or its applicable
Affiliate to provide to BMS the Net Selling Price of Stocrin (600 mg dosage form) for each country in the Territory in which Stocrin is sold and BMS shall promptly provide to Gilead Sub any such information provided by Merck Parent or such Affiliate
thereof for use as set forth in this Section 4.5 (and for no other purpose). Such Net Selling Prices shall be provided for (i) the first three Calendar Quarters of each Calendar Year sixty (60) days prior to the end of such Calendar
Year or on such later date as such information is reasonably available and (ii) each Calendar Year within thirty (30) days following the end of such Calendar Year or on such later date as such information is reasonably available. Each such
Net Selling Price shall be calculated based on the definition of  Net Sales  set forth in the EFV License Agreement for the applicable country and period divided by the number of Units (as defined in the Financial Agreement) of Stocrin
(600 mg dosage form) sold in such country and period. In the event that the Stocrin (600 mg dosage form) is not on the market in a given country, BMS shall cause Merck Parent or its applicable Affiliate to provide the Net Selling Price of Stocrin
(200 mg dosage form) and Gilead and BMS shall negotiate in good faith to determine the manner of converting such Net Selling Price into a proxy for the Net Selling Price of Stocrin (600 mg dosage form) in such country for use in connection with
calculations hereunder and under any other Covered Agreement.      (b) Gilead Sub shall calculate, based on the Net Selling
Prices supplied by Merck Parent or its applicable Affiliate as described in the foregoing clause  [ * ] .      (c) BMS
shall ensure that the EFV License Agreement permits an independent accountant acceptable to BMS and Gilead Sub to audit the Net Selling Price of Stocrin information provided by Merck Parent or its applicable Affiliate pursuant to the EFV License
Agreement at least once a Calendar Year (with a reasonable look-back period). Except as otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, BMS shall invoke such audit right each Calendar Year for the Calendar Year information supplied by Merck Parent or
its applicable Affiliate with respect to the prior Calendar Year. Any reasonable costs and expenses incurred by BMS in connection with any such audit shall constitute Authorized Other Expenses. Gilead Sub shall be entitled to a copy of any
information provided by BMS by the independent accountant in connection with any such audit. The findings of the audit shall be binding on the Parties (and each Party shall cause such findings to be binding on its Affiliates).      (d) In the event that the independent accountant determines, pursuant to clause (c), that any Net Selling Price of Stocrin provided by
Merck Parent or its applicable Affiliate was inaccurate, the independent accountant shall calculate and provide to BMS and Gilead the correct Net Selling Price. Any calculations made based on the erroneous Net Selling Price hereunder or under any
other Covered Agreement shall be recalculated based on the correct Net Selling Price and any amounts due hereunder or under any Covered Agreement that were determined based on such calculations shall be adjusted and appropriate credit notes or
invoices shall be issued within thirty (30) days after the results of the audit are obtained by the Parties. Any such invoice shall be due thirty (30) days after such invoice is provided to a Party or its applicable Affiliate. Each Party
shall cause its Affiliates to be bound by the foregoing.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       40   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (e) Gilead Sub shall ensure that any information provided to it pursuant to this
Section 4.5 shall (i) not be shared with any of its or its Affiliates  employees that is involved with the pricing or marketing strategies for any of its or its Affiliates  HIV-related products, (ii) shall not be used for
any purpose other than those specified in this Section 4.5 and (iii) be treated as Proprietary Information (as defined in the EFV License Agreement as such agreement is in effect as of the Effective Date and as such definition has been
provided to Gilead Sub prior to the Effective Date) of Merck Parent (or its applicable Affiliate) in accordance with the EFV License Agreement (as such agreement is in effect as of the Effective Date) to the extent the applicable provisions of the
EFV License Agreement have been provided to Gilead Sub in writing prior to the Effective Date.       SECTION 5        COMMERCIALIZATION ACTIVITIES       5.1
 Generally; Arrangements for Certain Territory A Countries.       (a)  Generally .      (i) The Parties shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, commercialize the Combination Product in the Territory in
accordance with this Section 5, the other terms of this Agreement, any applicable Co-Promotion Agreement and the MAH Shareholder Agreement. The Parties acknowledge the rights granted by the MAH to the Parties to commercialize the Combination
Product in the Territory.      (ii) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, (A) Gilead Sub shall (and shall
cause its Affiliates to) sell all Combination Product purchased by Gilead Sub pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement solely in the Territory (or as otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties) in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and
(B) if applicable, BMS shall (and shall cause its Affiliates to) sell any Combination Product purchased by BMS or any of its Affiliates pursuant to any BMS Product Supply Agreement solely in the Territory and in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and such BMS Product Supply Agreement.      (iii) Each of Gilead Sub and BMS shall comply, and shall cause its
Affiliates to comply, with Applicable Law, including the applicable Territory Marketing Authorization, in conducting their respective Commercialization Activities.      (iv) Promptly following the Effective Date, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith (A) to complete the designations set forth in
Annex L, (B) without limitation of the foregoing, to determine which Party shall be the Selling Party with respect to such country, and (C) to determine the supply arrangements with respect to such country, including any modifications to
the financial transactions set forth in the Covered Agreements as may be required to reflect such supply arrangements (provided that, in no event shall either Party be entitled to a distribution fee or other additional compensation or commission for
serving as the distributor in any such country (other than reimbursement for any Authorized Distribution Expenses to the extent provided herein) unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties). In connection with the foregoing, the Parties shall
amend this Agreement, including amending Annex L to specify the foregoing designations, and amend (or cause their respective Affiliates to amend) any other applicable Covered Agreement to reflect the Parties  determinations with respect to the
foregoing and enter into any BMS Product Supply Agreement(s) that are determined to be required.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       41   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (v) Neither Party shall have any right or obligation to distribute, Promote, Launch,
or seek pricing approvals for the Combination Product in any Third Party Distributor Country until (A) the foregoing amendments with respect to such country have been made, (B) the Parties have complied with any other applicable
provision(s) of this Section 5.1, including Section 5.1(b), and (C) any applicable BMS Product Supply Agreement or Third Party Distributor Agreement (or modifications thereto) has been executed. Further, prior to Launch in any Third
Party Distributor Country, the Parties shall mutually agree in writing on the price at which the Combination Product will be sold to the Third Party Distributor for such country.      (vi) For any country other than (A) those countries in the Co-Promote Territory and (B) the Gilead Sole-Promote Countries, the
Parties agree that, until such time as the distributor for such country has been determined ( i.e. , a Selling Entity or Third Party Distributor has been designated for such country hereunder), the Parties shall specify an Affiliate of BMS,
designated by BMS, as the local distributor in any applicable regulatory filings with respect to the Combination Product in the Territory on or after the Effective Date and on any applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the
Combination Product;  provided,  that the foregoing shall not apply to the extent and for so long as such designation is inconsistent with any Territory Marketing Authorization that may require the designation of Merck Parent (or its applicable
Affiliate) as the local distributor.      (b)  Third Party Distributor Countries .      (i) It is anticipated that, for certain countries in the Territory, a Third Party distributor (  Third Party Distributor  )
will be engaged to distribute the Combination Product (such country, for so long as a Third Party is so engaged to distribute the Combination Product, a   Third Party Distributor Country  ).      (ii) With respect to any anticipated Third Party Distributor Country, promptly following the Effective Date, the applicable Party shall
provide to the other Party redacted copies of its relevant existing agreement(s) with the anticipated Third Party Distributor and the proposed terms to be included in such agreement in connection with extending such agreement to cover the
Combination Product in the applicable country(ies) in the Territory. Such copies may be redacted to exclude provisions to the extent relating solely to products other than the Combination Product. Such Party shall provide the other Party an
opportunity to comment on the (anticipated) terms of such Third Party arrangements (including the applicable transfer price and the commercialization plan (including discounts to be offered to such Third Party Distributor, the volume thresholds
associated with such discounts, and initial launch pricing) and the term of the agreement(s) as it/they apply to the Combination Product) with respect to the Combination Product. In the event that the terms of such Third Party arrangements are
unacceptable to one of the Parties or one of the Parties notifies the other Party that it elects not to Launch the Combination Product in the applicable country, the anticipated Third Party Distributor shall not be granted the right to distribute
the Combination Product in such country. Further, the applicable Party shall provide the other Party an opportunity to comment on  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       42   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 modifications to the relevant commercialization plan that the Third Party Distributor intends to adopt from time to time, and in the event that such
modifications are unacceptable to one of the Parties, then the applicable Party shall terminate such Third Party Distributor s right to distribute the Combination Product in such country. For clarity, until such time as the Third Party
Distributor has the right to sell Combination Product in the applicable Third Party Distributor Country, the Parties shall make available Combination Product to Customers located in such country in a manner determined by the EUOC by way of sales by
a Selling Entity in another country in the Territory to the extent that orders are received from such country.      (iii) In no
event shall the Selling Party (A) extend the term of any Third Party Distributor Agreement (as the term applies to Territory Combination Product), (B) grant any further rights to any Third Party Distributor with respect to Territory
Combination Product, or (C) otherwise materially modify any Third Party Distributor Agreement as it relates to Territory Combination Product without the consent of the non-Selling Party. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this
Section 5.1(b)(iii) shall preclude either Party (or its applicable Affiliate) from negotiating, extending or modifying any Third Party Distributor Agreement (or any other agreement) as it applies to any of its products other than the
Combination Product.      (iv) In the event that one of the Parties desires to assume the responsibilities of distributor of the
Combination Product in any Third Party Distributor Country ( e.g. , in the case of expiration or termination of the Third Party arrangements), such Party shall notify the other Party as promptly as possible. (In the event that both Parties
desire to assume the responsibilities of distributor of the Combination Product in such country, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to determine which Party would assume such responsibilities.) Promptly following receipt of such notice, the
Selling Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to terminate such arrangement with such Third Party Distributor with respect to distribution of the Combination Product in such country. Upon expiration or termination of the applicable
agreement(s) with the Third Party Distributor (as they relate to Territory Combination Product), the applicable Party shall become the Sole Promoting Party (and the distributor) in such country.      (v) For clarity, Third Party Distributor Countries shall include only those countries with respect to which the Combination Product is
sold to a Third Party Distributor and shall not include any country as a result of the Selling Party s engagement of a Distribution Subcontractor.      (vi) The Parties shall (and shall cause their respective Affiliates to) negotiate in good faith appropriate amendments to this Agreement and any other applicable Covered Agreement to ensure that the transfer price
obtained from any Third Party Distributor in connection with its purchase of Territory Combination Product, taking account of any permitted discounts, is apportioned between the Parties (or their respective Affiliates) in a manner consistent with
the apportionment of Net Sales (as defined in the Financial Agreement) of the Combination Product between the Parties (or their respective Affiliates) pursuant to the Covered Agreements.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       43   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (c)  Promotion Rights . Subject to this Section 5.1 (and any restrictions
on Launch set forth therein), both Parties shall have the right to Promote the Combination Product in each country in the Territory (other than any Third Party Distributor Country, in which country neither Party shall Promote the Combination Product
without the written consent of the other Party);  provided,  that the non-Sole Promoting Party shall have the right to Promote the Combination Product in the other Party s Sole-Promote Countries pursuant to this Section 5.1(c) only.
With respect to any Sole-Promote Country, the non-Sole Promoting Party shall have the right to commence co-Promotion of Territory Combination Product in such country upon ninety (90) days  written notice to the Sole Promoting Party, which
notice shall specify the date on which such non-Sole Promoting Party intends to commence such Promotion;  provided,  that such non-Sole Promoting Party shall not have the right to commence such co-Promotion until the date on which such non-Sole
Promoting Party has established an HIV sales force in such country. Upon such notice, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith and, prior to the anticipated date on which such non-Sole Promoting Party (or any of its Affiliates) will commence
co-Promotion of the Combination Product in such country, enter into (i) a Co-Promotion Agreement (as defined below) with respect to such country, and (ii) any appropriate amendments to this Agreement and any other applicable Covered
Agreement then in effect, including the Financial Agreement, to reflect such non-Sole Promoting Party s co-Promotion of the Combination Product in such country, including any updates to the Commercialization Plan and the Commercialization
Budget, if applicable, for such country commencing as of the date on which such non-Sole Promoting Party commences co-Promotion of the Combination Product in such country.      (d) [*]      5.2  Co-Promotion
Agreements  .  Prior to the Launch of the Combination Product in each country in the Co-Promote Territory, Gilead Sub and BMS shall cause their applicable Affiliates to, enter into a co-promotion agreement with respect to the co-promotion of
the Combination Product in such country substantially in the form of the agreement set forth in Annex D (each such agreement, a   Co-Promotion Agreement  ).      5.3  Promotion Obligations.       (a)  Generally . Without limitation of Section 5.2, Gilead Sub and BMS each shall use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to perform in each country in the Territory (other than any Third Party Distributor Country) the
Commercialization Activities that such Party is required to perform under the Commercialization Plan in accordance with the Commercialization Budget, for so long as there is a Commercialization Plan in effect. Subject to the Commercialization Plan
and, in the case of any country in the Co-Promote Territory, the applicable Co-Promotion Agreement, each Party and any of its Affiliates that has the right to Promote the Combination Product in a given country shall be free to (i) engage in
Details in such country in its sole discretion, and (ii) select independently the target prescribers to which it shall Promote the Combination Product in such country. Gilead Sub and BMS shall each Detail the Combination Product and perform its
other Promotional activities under this Agreement in the Territory in strict adherence with Applicable Law and any professional requirements, including those relating to promotion of pharmaceutical products, consumer protection, fraud and abuse and
false claims. Gilead Sub and BMS shall each cause its Field Force to (A) comply with Section 5.6 and (B) make only such statements and claims regarding the Combination Product as are consistent with Applicable Law and the applicable
Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets. The Parties shall agree in good faith on appropriate metrics for tracking and assessing the performance and effectiveness of the Parties  respective Commercialization Activities of the Parties and
their applicable Affiliates.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       44   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b)  Countries without Minimum Detail Requirements . Without limitation of the
foregoing clause (a), each Party shall use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to Promote the Combination Product in any Territory A Country (other than a Third Party Distributor Country). Not performing any Details in any Sole-Promote Country may be
consistent with such level of effort;  provided, however,  in the event the Sole Promoting Party determines not to perform any Details in a given country (or to cease performing Details in such country), it shall notify the other Party of such
determination.      5.4  Distribution Obligations and Related Matters.       (a) Except in the case of any Third Party Distributor Country, each Party (or its applicable Affiliate) shall have the sole responsibility
and right to fill orders with respect to the Combination Product in each country in the Territory for which it is the Selling Party (  Territory Customer Orders  ). If for any reason the non-Selling Party or any of its Affiliates with
respect to a given country receives a Territory Customer Order for the Combination Product from a Customer located in such country, such Party shall, or shall cause such Affiliate to, promptly forward such order to the Selling Party (or its
applicable Affiliate), or to the applicable Third Party Distributor in such country approved pursuant to Section 5.1, if any.      (b) Without limitation of Section 5.4(a), the Selling Party shall perform the following activities with respect to sales of the Combination Product in each country in the Territory for which it is the Selling Party: inventory
management and control, warehousing and distribution, invoicing, collection of sales proceeds, preparation of sales records and reports, customer relations and services, the handling of returns, and such other activities for which the Selling Party
has responsibility pursuant to Annex E, if any, in each case in accordance with the terms set forth in Annex E and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, customary practice in the pharmaceutical industry.      (c) Any reasonable, external, out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the applicable Selling Party in connection with the performance of its
activities conducted pursuant to this Section 5.4 (and Annex E) (including any amounts paid to any Distribution Subcontractor (as defined in Annex E) but subject to the remainder of this Section 5.4, and excluding any expenses incurred by
the applicable Selling Party s Third Party Distributor, if applicable) shall constitute   Authorized Distribution Expenses  . Without limitation of the foregoing, any shipping and warehousing costs incurred by or on behalf of
either Party or any Affiliate thereof in connection with the shipping of Territory Combination Product to the applicable Customer or warehousing of Territory Combination Product after it is sold to Gilead Sub pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement
or to BMS or its applicable Affiliate pursuant to any BMS Product Supply Agreement shall constitute Authorized Distribution Expenses (and not Local Expenses under any Co-Promotion Agreement). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that a
Distribution Subcontractor is engaged to perform certain activities (other than shipping) in a given country, (i) the amount to be paid to such Distribution Subcontractor for performing such  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       45   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 activities, or if such amount is not fixed, the basis for calculating such amount, shall be provided to the other Party and the JFC prior to the engagement
of such Distribution Subcontractor to perform such activities, and (ii) the amounts paid to such Distribution Subcontractor shall constitute Authorized Distribution Expenses to the extent that the JFC determines that such amounts are
reasonable, which determination the JFC shall make by comparing such amounts to the amounts that BMS pays to its subcontractors for the same activities in such country or a similar country or, if not available, an appropriate benchmark selected by
the JFC. For the avoidance of doubt, Authorized Distribution Expenses shall not include any expenses that are reimbursable pursuant to any Co-Promotion Agreement.      5.5  [ * ]       5.6  Marketing Materials.  Subject to the remainder of this Section 5.6,
each Party s Promotion of the Combination Product in the Territory shall be in accordance with the Approved Marketing Materials (as defined below) (including any localized version thereof) and the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package
Leaflets for the Combination Product;  provided ,  however , that subject to the foregoing (and any applicable provisions of the Co-Promotion Agreements), each Party (and its Affiliates) shall have a right to position the Combination
Product within its HIV product portfolio in its sole discretion. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.6, each Party shall use the Approved Marketing Materials (and only the Approved Marketing Materials) for a given country in the
Territory, together with the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets, in Promoting the Combination Product in such country. In the absence of any Approved Marketing Materials for a given country in the Territory, each Party shall
Promote the Combination Product in such country using only the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product. The obligations set forth in this Section 5.6 shall be without limitation of any obligations of
any Parties or its Affiliates set forth in the provisions of the MAH Shareholder Agreement with respect to Marketing Materials (as defined in such agreement), advertising and promotional compliance, and Combination Product Trademarks (as defined in
such agreement). The Parties agree that, subject to any applicable provisions of the MAH Shareholder Agreement, the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for Territory Combination Product and any Approved Marketing Materials shall
include the two names  Bristol-Myers Squibb  and  Gilead Sciences  displayed with equal prominence, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law. Except as otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties in writing, any Party that is a
party to a Third Party Distributor Agreement shall cause its Third Party Distributor to (i) use only the Approved Marketing Materials (which may be localized by the Third Party Distributor for the applicable country provided that no material
modification is made in connection therewith) and the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets to Promote the Combination Product in the applicable countries and (ii) Promote the Combination Product in accordance with Applicable
Law.      (a) The EUOC shall develop and approve an initial set of advertising and promotional materials for the Combination
Product for use in each country in the Territory. If the EUOC cannot reach agreement with respect to such materials, the JEC shall attempt to resolve any disputed issues relating to the materials. Any such materials approved by the EUOC  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       46   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 or the JEC pursuant to this Section 5.6(a) with respect to a given country (and any updates thereto approved pursuant to Section 5.6(b) or
Section 5.6(c)) shall be deemed   Approved Marketing Materials   with respect to such country. Further, any localization of any Approved Marketing Materials shall constitute Approved Marketing Materials without requiring approval
of the EUOC;  provided,  that such localization is limited to translation and other non-material modifications. (Any material modifications made to the Approved Marketing Materials in the course of localization shall require the approval of the
EUOC pursuant to this Section 5.6.)      (b) Each Party may propose interim updates to the Approved Marketing Materials for
each country in the Territory from time to time, independent of the semi-annual reviews conducted pursuant to Section 5.6(e). The EUOC shall be required to consider, and shall adopt, such updates only if they satisfy the following conditions:
(i) the update is based on relevant new scientific, medical or clinical data, relevant new regulatory or legal developments, or changes to the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product; and (ii) in
the absence of such update, the use of the Approved Marketing Materials would not comply with Applicable Law (any update satisfying such conditions, a   Required Update  ).      (c) Approximately six (6) months after the Launch of the Combination Product in a country in the Territory, the EUOC, as applicable,
shall review and, if appropriate, update the Approved Marketing Materials, if any, for such country. Such updates shall include, at a minimum, any Required Updates. If the EUOC cannot reach agreement on a Required Update proposed by a Party, then
the matter shall be referred to the JEC and shall be subject to dispute resolution under Section 2.6. In the event that none of the EUOC, the JEC, and the Executives is/are able to reach agreement on a proposed Required Update, and after the
conclusion of any arbitration relating to Required Updates, each Party may elect upon written notice to the other Party to Promote the Combination Product in such country using (i) the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for
the Combination Product alone or (ii) the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product or the Approved Marketing Materials as modified to reflect any Required Updates (as finally determined by the
arbitrator(s), as applicable).      (d) In connection with the review conducted pursuant to Section 5.6(c), the EUOC may
make other appropriate changes arising from business or other considerations (each, an   Optional Update  ) as proposed by a Party. In the event that the EUOC cannot reach agreement on any proposed Optional Update to the Approved
Marketing Materials for a country in the Territory, then the dispute shall be referred to the JEC and shall be subject to dispute resolution under Section 2.6;  provided ,  however , that for the avoidance of doubt, the dispute shall
not constitute an Arbitration Matter. In the event that none of the EUOC, the JEC, and the Executives is/are able to reach agreement on a proposed Optional Update, each Party may elect upon written notice to the other Party to Promote the
Combination Product in such country using (i) the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product alone or (ii) the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product or
the Approved Marketing Materials without such Optional Update.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       47   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (e) Following the review conducted pursuant to Section 5.6(c), the EUOC shall
review the Approved Marketing Materials on a semi-annual basis and shall make Required Updates and consider any Optional Updates proposed by a Party. Any disputes within the EUOC relating to such updates shall be resolved using the procedures set
forth in Sections 5.6(c) and 5.6(d), as applicable.      (f) The EUOC shall (i) select an advertising agency or agencies to
assist with the Marketing of the Combination Product in each country in the Territory and (ii) oversee the activities of such agency or agencies. The EUOC shall determine the Party that shall contract with each such agency, which Party shall
enter into a contract with such agency on commercially reasonable terms, and the Parties shall include the external, out-of-pocket costs and expenses anticipated to be incurred in connection with such contract in the Commercialization Budget.
     (g) The EUOC shall develop, implement and oversee an orderly, systematic process, involving representatives from the legal,
medical and regulatory functions of each Party, for the review and approval of advertising and promotional materials to be used in each country in the Territory.      (h) Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Section 5.6, with respect to Approved Marketing Materials for use in
any country in the Territory, Gilead Sub shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining any governmental approvals required with respect to the use of such Approved Marketing Materials and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall have
the right to file for routine renewal of any such approvals annually without approval of the JEC or any Operating Committee.      5.7  Use of
Trademarks.  Each Party shall conduct its activities hereunder in a manner consistent with Section the provisions of the MAH Shareholder Agreement with respect to Combination Product Trademarks (as defined is such agreement).      5.8  Commercialization Plan and Budget.       (a) The Commercialization Plan shall (i) be developed on a country-by-country basis and, with respect to Territory Centralized Expenses and related activities, a Territory-wide basis, (ii) specify any
Territory-wide activities and country-specific activities to be conducted in each country in the Territory, which country-specific activities shall be mutually agreed by the parties to the applicable Co-Promotion Agreement, if any, in accordance
with such agreement, subject to any applicable provisions of this Agreement, and (iii) cover only activities for commercialization of Territory Combination Product that shall be conducted by or on behalf of one Party or its applicable Affiliate
or that must be coordinated between the Parties or their respective Affiliates hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement, which activities shall conform to the other terms of this Agreement, including the provisions of this Section 5 and
the Co-Promotion Agreement, if any, for the applicable country. Such plan shall specify (A) such activities and (B) the Party that shall take the lead role with respect to such activities on a country-by-country basis (or Territory-wide
basis, if applicable).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       48   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) The initial Commercialization Plan attached hereto as Annex F covers Calendar
Years 2006, 2007 and 2008 (such plan, as updated from time to time in accordance with this Section 5.8, the   Commercialization Plan  ) for certain countries in the Territory. From time to time, the Parties or the JEC shall amend
the Commercialization Plan to include each other country in the Territory prior to the anticipated date of Launch in such country. The Commercialization Plan and any update thereto shall contain a budget for each Party s out-of-pocket expenses
for such Party s activities set forth therein (such budget, the   Commercialization Budget  ), which budget shall be set forth on a country-by-country basis (for the countries included in the Commercialization Plan) and with
respect to Territory Centralized Expenses, on a Territory-wide basis. The initial Commercialization Plan covers, and any updates thereto shall cover (i) unit volume and market share forecasts for the Combination Product in each country in the
Territory that is included in the Commercialization Plan for the foregoing period, (ii) certain Marketing and other commercialization activities for the Combination Product that are required to be conducted in each such country by or on behalf
of one Party or its applicable Affiliate or that must be coordinated between the Parties or their respective Affiliates hereunder or under the applicable Co-Promotion Agreement, (iii) the total minimum number of Details by each Party in each
country in the Territory in each Calendar Quarter (or part thereof);  provided, however,  that, without limitation of the obligations of each Party set forth in Section 5.3 to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to perform such
Party s Commercialization Activities and to Promote the Territory Combination Product, no minimum number of Details are required for any country in Territory A; and (iv) any other matters or activities determined by the EUOC. With respect
to each country, except as otherwise agreed by the JEC or by the Parties in writing, the total amount included in the Country-Specific Commercialization Budget for the Initial Launch Period for such country shall be at least the amount of the
Initial Launch Period Financial Commitment for such country.      (c) For each Calendar Year commencing with Calendar Year 2009
(other than (i) any such Calendar Year for which the Parties agree that there shall be no Commercialization Plan or Commercialization Budget or (ii) any such Calendar Year that follows a Calendar Year in which the Commercialization Budget
is zero), the Parties shall jointly prepare, based on country-by-country plans and budgets developed by the JLOCs pursuant to the Co-Promotion Agreements or as otherwise agreed by the Parties, any proposed updates to the Commercialization Plan and
Commercialization Budget (which updates shall be prepared in sufficient time to permit Gilead Sub to submit, in a timely manner, such updates to the EUOC and the JFC in accordance with this Section 5.8(c)). Gilead Sub shall submit to the EUOC
and the JFC, not less than sixty (60) days prior to the start of each Calendar Year for such Calendar Year, any jointly-agreed proposed updates to the Commercialization Plan and Budget. In the event that Gilead Sub and BMS fail to reach
agreement with respect to any such proposed updates, each Party shall submit its proposed updates to the EUOC and the JFC by the deadline set forth in the immediately preceding sentence. The JFC shall provide its comments on any Commercialization
Budget submitted to the JFC to the EUOC, for its consideration, within ten (10) Business Days following such submission. Following review, discussion and appropriate revision of such proposed update, no later than forty-five (45) days
prior to the start of the applicable Calendar Year, the EUOC shall (A) agree upon an update to propose to the JEC and submit such proposed update to the JEC, or (B) in the event the EUOC cannot reach agreement on such any such proposed
update, to submit to the JEC the proposed update submitted by Gilead Sub (or each Party) to the EUOC pursuant to this Section 5.8(c) and any other relevant materials, including any comments that the JFC and either Party s EUOC members may
have on such proposed update, so as to enable the JEC to reach agreement with respect to such an update.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       49   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (d) Without limitation to the annual updates covered by Section 5.8(c), either
Party, directly or through its representatives on the EUOC, as the case may be, may propose interim updates to the Commercialization Plan and the Commercialization Budget to the EUOC from time to time as appropriate in light of changed
circumstances. The EUOC shall review, discuss and revise, as appropriate, any such proposed update at its next quarterly meeting. In the event that any such proposed update would cause the updated Commercialization Budget to exceed one hundred and
five percent (105%) of the Commercialization Budget most recently approved by the JEC pursuant to Section 5.8(c) (a   Significant Interim Update  ), the EUOC shall forward such proposed update, with its recommendation, if
any, with respect to such proposed update, to the JEC for review and approval. In the event that such proposed update is not a Significant Interim Update, including in the case in which the proposed update would reallocate funds between or among two
or more countries in the Territory, but not increase the Commercialization Budget beyond the foregoing threshold, the EUOC shall determine whether or not to approve such proposed update, which determination shall be final and not subject to dispute
resolution pursuant to Section 2.6.      (e) Subject to Section 2.2(c) and Section 2.7, if a proposed update to
the Commercialization Plan or Commercialization Budget is not approved by the JEC (or if applicable, the EUOC), then such Commercialization Plan or Commercialization Budget, as the case may be, shall continue in effect as approved and most recently
updated pursuant to this Section 5.8.      5.9  Commercialization Expenses.  The Parties agree that any expenses incurred by a Party
or any of its Affiliates in connection with the performance of its respective Commercialization Activities hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement shall constitute   Authorized Commercialization Expenses   solely to the extent
that such expenses are Territory Centralized Expenses and: (a) such Commercialization Activities are covered in and consistent with the Territory Centralized Plan and are within an area of responsibility for such Party listed in the Territory
Centralized Budget and are not eligible for sharing or reimbursement pursuant to any Co-Promotion Agreement; (b) the total expenses for such Party s designated activities under the Territory Centralized Plan for the relevant period do not
exceed the aggregate amount set forth in the Territory Centralized Budget for such activities in such period; (c) the expenses are external, out-of-pocket costs of such Party or Affiliate, without any markup, and not internal costs, including
internal costs incurred in maintaining or operating a Field Force or marketing organization (including marketing personnel and sales support personnel); and (d) the relevant Commercialization Activities are for the Marketing of the Combination
Product in the Territory only and not for the Marketing of any other proprietary products of such Party or any of its Affiliates. The Parties acknowledge and agree that certain of the activities set forth in the Commercialization Plan may have been
performed prior to the Effective Date under the Interim Agreement and that the costs and expenses associated therewith shall be reimbursable under this Agreement as Authorized Commercialization Expenses to the extent that they satisfy the foregoing
criteria. Notwithstanding the limitation contained in clause (d) above, in the event that  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       50   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 either Party reasonably believes that there are cost or other efficiencies that can reasonably be expected to be achieved through one or both Parties 
conducting Commercialization Activities with respect to the Combination Product as part of, or in coordination with, activities being conducted by one or both Parties with respect to its or their Single Agent Product(s) or Double Agent Product, such
Party(ies) may propose, by and through its applicable EUOC member(s), that such activities be coordinated and an appropriate and reasonable allocation of the related costs be made between the Combination Product, on the one hand, and such other
product or products, on the other hand, and that the amount allocated to the Combination Product be treated as Authorized Commercialization Expenses (each such proposal, a  Cost Allocation Proposal ). If, and only to the extent that, such
Cost Allocation Proposal is reviewed by the EUOC and JFC and approved by the JEC (with any modifications made by the JEC), the amount approved by the JEC for allocation to the Combination Product shall constitute Authorized Commercialization
Expenses.      5.10  Reports.  Except as otherwise agreed by the EUOC, with respect to each country in the Territory, Gilead Sub and BMS
shall each present to the other, at a meeting of the EUOC at least once per Calendar Quarter until the second anniversary of the Launch of the Combination Product in such country and, thereafter, at a meeting of the EUOC at least semiannually, a
report (oral and written, which written report shall not be required to contain more detail than that typically included in an executive summary) describing (a) the Commercialization Activities it has performed, or caused to be performed,
including Details, since the preceding meeting at which such a report was presented (or, in the case of the first meeting of the EUOC, prior to such meeting) and on a Calendar Year-to-date basis, evaluating the work performed in relation to the
goals and timeline of each Commercialization Plan, (b) its Commercialization Activities in process and the future activities it expects to initiate during the then-current Calendar Year, as compared to each Commercialization Plan, and
(c) in the case of the written report, the Authorized Commercialization Expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, by such Party (and its applicable Affiliates) for the then-current Calendar Year, as compared to the applicable
Commercialization Budget. In addition, Gilead Sub and BMS shall report promptly to the EUOC through their respective committee members any material developments with respect to Commercialization Activities that they are responsible for performing
under the Commercialization Plan. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 5.10 to the contrary, each Party s reporting obligations under this Section 5.10 shall automatically be deemed to terminate with respect to any
period in which there is not then in effect a Commercialization Plan or Commercialization Budget. Without limitation of any of the foregoing, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith and mutually agree in writing upon any additional reporting
requirements with respect to any Third Party Distributor Country.      5.11  Records.       (a)  Maintenance of Records . Gilead Sub and BMS each shall (in accordance with their respective allocations of responsibility with
respect to the Commercialization Activities) maintain and retain, or cause to be maintained and retained, final records (but not draft records or documents except as otherwise required by Applicable Law) of its (and its Affiliates ) respective
Commercialization Activities covered in the Commercialization Plan for at least (i) three (3) years or (ii) such longer period as may be required by Applicable Law.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       51   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b)  Access to Records . Subject to this Section 5.11(b), each Party shall
have the right, with respect to records maintained by the other Party (and its Affiliates) of such other Party s (and its Affiliates ) Commercialization Activities covered in the Commercialization Plan, during normal business hours and
upon reasonable notice, to inspect and copy any such records pursuant to this Section 5.11(b) solely to the extent relating to the Combination Product and solely to the extent (i) necessary in order for the inspecting Party (or its
Affiliates) to perform its obligations with respect to Commercialization Activities in a manner consistent with the applicable Commercialization Plan, (ii) necessary for the inspecting Party to confirm compliance with, or to comply with,
Applicable Law, as it relates to the activities conducted hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement, or (iii) necessary to enable the inspecting Party to conduct reasonable diligence on matters potentially giving rise to liability on the
part of the Supply JV, the MAH or such Party or any of its Affiliates, or to conduct a defense of itself or any of the foregoing Persons, if and to the extent that a fact, circumstance or event has arisen that gives the inspecting Party a reasonable
basis to believe that it or any such Person has or may incur such liability, in each case for use by the inspecting Party for the purpose set forth in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above, as the case may be. Clause (iii) of the
immediately preceding sentence shall not require any Party or any of its Affiliates to provide such data, documentation or records in the event that the Parties  (or their respective Affiliates ) interests in such matter are or may be
adverse in any material respect, in which case Applicable Law, including discovery rules and procedures shall apply. Each such request shall be made in writing and shall state the reason(s) therefor (each a   Commercial Record
Request  ). The Party (or its applicable Affiliate) from which such records, documentation or data are requested shall have the right to raise reasonable objections in writing in response to such Commercial Record Request, including based on
such Party s or Affiliate s interests in protecting from disclosure to the requesting Party trade secrets or other competitive business information. Upon any such objection being asserted, the Parties shall promptly confer in an attempt to
address each Party s concerns and reach a resolution with respect to the matter, and in the event that the Parties are unable to agree upon a mutually agreeable resolution, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the EUOC. In
the event that any such dispute is referred by a Party to arbitration pursuant to Section 2.6 (and Section 6.7 of the Standard Terms), the arbitrators shall determine as a threshold matter whether and to what extent one or more criteria
set forth in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) above have been satisfied by the requesting Party, and, if so, shall make a determination with respect to whether and to what extent the disclosure of such information shall be required, by
balancing, on the one hand, the requesting Party s need to obtain such records, documentation or data, and on the other hand, the objecting Party s interests in protecting such records, documentation and data from disclosure. In making
such determination, the arbitrator(s) shall (x) confine their consideration to the facts and arguments set forth in the Commercial Record Request and the other Party s written response thereto, and (y) have the right to require the
receiving Party to abide by terms and conditions for the handling, use and non-disclosure (either within such Party s organization or to other Persons) of such information as may be reasonable under the circumstances.     Except as
provided in this Section 5.11, a Party shall not have the right to obtain from the other Party access to or copies of the other Party s records, documentation and data described above, unless  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       52   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 otherwise expressly permitted pursuant to this Agreement or any other Covered Agreement to which the Parties (or their respective Affiliates) are parties or
the other Party gives its consent in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither Party shall have any obligation to (and, with respect to pricing and discounting matters as set forth in Section 4.1, neither Party shall) provide
(or cause to be provided) to the other Party any information pursuant to the Section 5.11 to the extent it relates to price setting and discounting, or inventory management agreements, or which such first Party (or any of its Affiliates) is
restricted from disclosing pursuant to Applicable Law or confidentiality or other contractual arrangements with Persons other than the Parties or their Affiliates.      (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 5.11 shall limit the rights or obligation of the Parties (or any of their
respective Affiliates) under Section 3 of the Standard Terms as incorporated herein or any audit provision set forth in the Financial Agreement. In the event of a conflict between this Section 5.11 and Section 3 of the Standard Terms
or any such audit provision, Section 3 of the Standard Terms or such audit provision, as the case may be, shall control. The Parties shall negotiate in good faith and mutually agree in writing upon any audit rights with respect to Third Party
Distributor records.      5.12  Samples and Product Donations.       (a) Except to the extent mutually agreed in writing, Gilead Sub and BMS shall not provide, or give access to, samples of the Combination
Product to health care practitioners or patients in connection with Promotion of the Combination Product in the Territory.      (b) Further, no Party shall donate any Territory Combination Product to any Third Party unless (i) mutually agreed in writing by the Parties (or their respective Affiliates) or (ii)(A) such Party provides notice to the other Party of
its intention to donate Territory Combination Product, which notice shall specify (x) the price at which such Party intends to purchase such Territory Combination Product, (y) the quantity of Territory Combination Product such Party
intends to purchase for purposes of such donation, and (z) the Person to which such Party intends to donate such Territory Combination Product and (B) the other Party consents to such proposed donation, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed. In the event that such consent is provided and the donating Party proceeds with the donation, (a) if the donating Party is the Selling Party with respect to the donated Combination Product, the donating Party
shall treat any Combination Product so donated as Net Sales (as defined in the Financial Agreement) for the country for which the Combination Product is labeled, or (b) if the donating Party is the non-Selling Party, the Selling Party shall
sell the Combination Product to the donating Party at the price specified in the foregoing clause (x). Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this clause (b) shall apply to any Combination Product to be used in any Clinical Trial.
        
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       53   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    SECTION 6        SUPPLY-RELATED MATTERS       6.1  Generally.  Without limitation of the other provisions of this
Section 6, semiannually or on such other schedule as the EUOC may agree from time to time, the EUOC shall (a) review the Manufacturing arrangements for Territory Combination Product, including availability of API and Manufacturing
capacity, the anticipated Manufacturing schedule, and inventory levels of Territory Combination Product, including safety stock, held by the Supply JV, (b) provide general oversight of the process with respect to Forecasts and Orders set forth
in Section 6.2 and (c) make such recommendations to the Parties with respect to any of the foregoing as the EUOC deems appropriate.      6.2  Forecasts and Orders.       (a)  Forecasts and Related Supporting Data .      (i) Each Party shall appoint a designated employee to oversee the preparation of Forecasts (as defined below) pursuant to this
Section 6.2(a), which designated employee may be an employee of an Affiliate of such Party. Any Forecast proposed by a Party hereunder shall be based on Local Demand in each country in the Territory as determined based on the Forecast
Principles and Supporting Data set forth in Annex K. Further, all Forecasts agreed pursuant to clause (ii) below shall be based on Local Demand in each country in the Territory as determined based on the Forecast Principles and Supporting
Data set forth in Annex K and shall be prepared in good faith and with due diligence, care and consideration. The Parties, through their respective designated employees, shall discuss any proposed Forecasts and review and exchange Supporting Data as
appropriate and on such schedule as the Parties may establish from time to time;  provided  that neither Party shall have any obligation to provide any Supporting Data hereunder to the other Party to the extent that such Supporting Data is
licensed by such Party (or any of its Affiliates) from any Third Party if such Party (or any of its Affiliates) does not have the right to provide such Supporting Data as required hereunder.      (ii) Based on the Supporting Data exchanged pursuant to clause (i), the Parties shall jointly develop and agree on such forecasts for each
country in the Territory as Gilead Sub is required to submit to the Supply JV pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement (such forecasts,  Forecasts ) in accordance with the requirements for such Forecasts set forth in the Product Supply
Agreement and in sufficient time to allow Gilead Sub to submit such Forecast to the Supply JV by the date on which such Forecast is due under the Product Supply Agreement.      (iii) In the event that the Parties have not agreed upon any Forecast by ten (10) Business Days prior to the date on which such
Forecast is due to be submitted under the Product Supply Agreement, either Party may refer such matter to the Designated EUOC Members, in which case the Designated EUOC Members shall consider and agree upon such Forecast not less than four
(4) days prior to the date on which such Forecast is due under the Product Supply Agreement. The determination of the Designated EUOC Members shall be made based on Local Demand. In the event that the Designated EUOC Members cannot reach

[ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       54   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 agreement by such deadline with respect to any Forecast, such matter shall be escalated to the Commercial Executives for resolution not less than two
(2) days prior to the date on which such Forecast is due under the Product Supply Agreement. With respect to any meetings or other discussions between the Commercial Executives regarding the resolution of such dispute, such meetings and
discussions shall relate solely to the applicable Forecast or Order which is the subject of such dispute. In the event that the Commercial Executives are not able to reach agreement, Gilead Sub shall submit to the Supply JV, pursuant to the Product
Supply Agreement, the required Forecast based on the previous Forecast that was most recently submitted to the Supply JV, where the forecast for any period not covered by such previous forecast shall be equal to the forecast for the immediately
preceding period. The terms of Section 2.6 shall not apply with respect to any such dispute.      (b)  Orders . Based
on the Forecasts, and, if applicable, the relevant Supporting Data, Gilead Sub shall prepare and submit such orders for the Territory (each, a  Order ) for the Combination Product as (i) are required to be submitted by Gilead Sub
pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement, or (ii) Gilead Sub is permitted to submit pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement and determines, in connection with its management of the inventory of Territory Combination Product, are appropriate,
in each case ((i) and (ii)) in accordance with the requirements for such orders set forth in the Product Supply Agreement.      6.3
 Supply-Related Expenses.  Any external, out-of-pocket amounts incurred by Gilead Sub in the Territory pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement other than amounts incurred by Gilead Sub pursuant to Section 6.1 or Section 6.2 of the
Product Supply Agreement, shall constitute   Authorized Supply Expenses  , except that (a) any such amounts incurred by Gilead Sub to the extent arising out of the gross negligence or intentional misconduct of Gilead Sub or any
of its Affiliates shall not constitute Authorized Supply Expenses and shall be borne in full by Gilead Sub; and (b) any such amounts incurred by Gilead Sub to the extent arising out of the gross negligence or intentional misconduct of BMS or
any of its Affiliates shall not constitute Authorized Supply Expenses and shall be borne by BMS.       SECTION 7        LICENSE GRANTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY       7.1  Licenses and Related Matters.       (a)  Trademark Licenses and Related Matters .      (i) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Gilead Sub hereby grants, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, to BMS a
non-exclusive, royalty-free, fully paid-up, license, with right to sublicense through multiple tiers, to use in the Territory (A) the Trademarks listed on Annex G hereto (the   Gilead Licensed Trademarks  ) for the sole purposes
of commercialization of the Combination Product (but not to the commercialization of the active pharmaceutical ingredients thereof individually or in combination other than in the Combination Product or other Exploitation of the Combination Product)
in the Territory and (B) the name and company logo/identifiers of Gilead Sub or its applicable Affiliate(s) for use (alone or as part of the name of the MAH) on Approved Marketing Materials and the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package
Leaflets for the Combination Product.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       55   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (ii) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BMS hereby grants, on
behalf of itself and its Affiliates, to Gilead Sub a non-exclusive, royalty-free, fully paid-up, license, with right to sublicense through multiple tiers, to use in the Territory (A) the Trademarks listed on Annex H hereto (the   BMS
Licensed Trademarks  ) for the sole purposes of commercialization of the Combination Product (but not to the commercialization of the active pharmaceutical ingredients thereof individually or in combination other than in the Combination
Product or other Exploitation of the Combination Product) in the Territory and (B) the name and company logo/identifiers of BMS or its applicable Affiliates(s) for use (alone or as part of the name of the MAH) on Approved Marketing Materials
and the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product.      (iii) Gilead Sub hereby
recognizes BMS s and its Affiliates  right, title, and interest in and to the BMS Licensed Trademarks. Gilead Sub further recognizes that this Agreement, or use of the BMS Licensed Trademarks in connection with this Agreement, in no way
confers to Gilead Sub any right, title, and interest in and to the BMS Licensed Trademarks or any other trademarks or intellectual property rights owned by BMS or any of its Affiliates, except as may otherwise be expressly provided in this
Agreement. BMS hereby recognizes Gilead Sub s and its Affiliates  right, title, and interest in and to the Gilead Licensed Trademarks. BMS further recognizes that this Agreement, or use of the Gilead Licensed Trademarks in connection with
this Agreement, in no way confers to BMS any right, title, and interest in and to the Gilead Licensed Trademarks or any other trademarks or intellectual property rights owned by Gilead Sub or any of its Affiliates, except as may otherwise be
expressly provided in this Agreement.      (iv) Gilead Sub acknowledges that the goodwill generated by any use of the BMS
Licensed Trademarks in connection with this Agreement will inure solely to the benefit of BMS or its applicable Affiliate. BMS acknowledges that the goodwill generated by any use of the Gilead Licensed Trademarks in connection with this Agreement
will inure solely to the benefit of Gilead Sub or its applicable Affiliate.      (b)  Sublicense of Gilead Commercialization
Rights . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Gilead Sub hereby grants to BMS a royalty-free, non-exclusive sublicense, with the right to sublicense through multiple tiers of sublicensees to any of its Affiliates or permitted
subcontractors, under any and all licenses granted to Gilead Sub in each Commercial License Agreement (to the extent that such a sublicense is permitted to be granted under such agreement) for the sole purpose of performing BMS s obligations
hereunder and BMS s (or its Affiliates ) obligations under the Co-Promotion Agreements and, if applicable, any BMS Product Supply Agreement.      (c) All license rights not specifically granted in this Section 7.1 are expressly reserved by each licensing Party. Any license granted in Section 7.1 may be transferred or assigned by the licensee Party
only in connection with a permitted assignment of this Agreement by such Party pursuant to Section 6.5 of the Standard Terms as incorporated herein.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       56   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   7.2  Ownership of Trademarks and Related Matters.       (a)  Gilead Licensed Trademarks . Gilead Sub shall have the sole right, at its sole cost and expense, to search, clear, file,
register, prosecute, maintain and enforce the Gilead Licensed Trademarks. Gilead Sub shall have the sole right and option, at its sole cost and expense, to respond to any infringement with respect to any Gilead Licensed Trademark by appropriate
steps, including by filing an infringement suit or taking other similar action. Gilead Sub shall also have the sole right and option not to prosecute, maintain or enforce Gilead Licensed Trademarks or take action to respond to any such infringement.
     (b)  BMS Licensed Trademarks . BMS shall have the sole right, at its sole cost and expense, to search, clear, file,
register, prosecute, maintain and enforce the BMS Licensed Trademarks. BMS shall have the sole right and option, at its sole cost and expense, to respond to any infringement with respect to any BMS Licensed Trademark by appropriate steps, including
by filing an infringement suit or taking other similar action. BMS shall also have the sole right and option not to prosecute, maintain or enforce BMS Licensed Trademarks or take action to respond to any such infringement.      (c)  Combination Product Trademarks . The Parties acknowledge that the ownership of the Combination Product Trademarks (as defined in
the US JV Collaboration Agreement) and any response to any infringement or potential infringement of such Trademark (and the costs and expenses associated therewith) shall be governed by the US JV Collaboration Agreement. Gilead Sub shall be solely
responsible for searching, clearing, filing, registering, prosecuting and maintaining any such Trademarks in the Territory in the name of the US JV and the external, out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Gilead Sub in connection therewith shall be
treated as Authorized Other Expenses hereunder.      (d)  EU Combination Product Trademarks . In the event that there are
any EU Combination Product Trademarks (as defined in the MAH Shareholder Agreement), the Parties shall coordinate in good faith (i) to secure from the owner(s) of such Trademarks (the ownership of which is governed by the MAH Shareholder
Agreement) such licenses or other rights as are reasonably necessary to conduct the Parties  activities hereunder and under the Co-Promotion Agreements, (ii) to allocate responsibility as between the Parties and such owner(s) for
(A) the searching, clearing, filing, registering, prosecuting and maintaining any such Trademarks in the Territory and (B) any response to any infringement or potential infringement of any such Trademarks in the Territory and (iii) to
allocate, as between the Parties and such owner(s), any costs with respect to any of the foregoing.      7.3  Ownership of Marketing
Materials.  Any Approved Marketing Materials, and any intellectual property rights with respect thereto, shall be jointly owned by the Parties; provided, that (a) except as otherwise provided in clause (b), each Party shall have the right to
use the Approved Marketing Materials solely as set forth herein and (b) in the event that either Party desires to use the Approved Marketing Materials (as modified appropriately) in connection with the Marketing of the Combination Product
outside the Territory, the other Party shall not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent to such use and, if such consent is granted, shall grant such licenses with respect to the Approved Marketing Materials as may be reasonably necessary

[ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       57   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 in connection therewith;  provided, that  such grant shall not be required to include any grant of any rights to use any Trademark; and, provided,
further that the foregoing shall not be construed to modify the rights and obligations of the Parties or their respective Affiliates under Section 5.7 of the US JV Collaboration Agreement.      7.4  IP Expenses.  In the event that Gilead Sub reimburses the US JV pursuant to any Covered Agreement for amounts incurred by or on behalf of the
US JV with respect to obtaining, maintaining or enforcing any intellectual property rights, including Trademarks, that are licensed to Gilead Sub under such agreement with respect to the Territory, such amounts reimbursed by Gilead Sub shall
constitute Authorized Other Expenses to extent attributable to the Territory.       SECTION 8        PAYMENTS       8.1  Authorized
Expenses.       For clarity, any amounts paid or payable pursuant to this Section 8 shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to the
Financial Agreement to the extent provided therein.      (a)  Allocation . Gilead Sub and BMS shall each bear any
Authorized Expenses in accordance with the Working Percentage for the Gilead Territory-Wide Percentage and the BMS Territory-Wide Percentage, respectively, as set forth in this Section 8.1. For the avoidance of doubt, with respect to any costs
and expenses incurred by a Party in performing the Commercialization Activities or other activities hereunder, the other Party shall bear a portion of such costs and expenses pursuant to this Section 8.1 only if such costs and expenses
constitute Authorized Expenses.      (b)  Authorized Commercialization Expenses .      (i) Each Party shall report to the other Party, no later than ten (10) Business Days after the end of each Calendar Quarter, the
Authorized Commercialization Expenses incurred by such Party during such Calendar Quarter. Such report shall specify in reasonable detail all amounts included in such Authorized Commercialization Expenses during such Calendar Quarter. All Authorized
Commercialization Expenses shall be reported in Euros. For reporting purposes, any Authorized Commercialization Expenses incurred in a currency other than Euros shall be converted to Euros from the applicable currency by the incurring Party in a
manner consistent with its then-current standard worldwide currency conversion methodology, as consistently applied. For the avoidance of doubt, any expenses that are reimbursable pursuant to any Co-Promotion Agreement shall not constitute
Authorized Commercialization Expenses hereunder.      (ii) Authorized Commercialization Expenses shall be subject to
reimbursement, as follows. Within thirty (30) days after the date on which the Authorized Commercialization Expense reports for a particular Calendar Quarter are due pursuant to Section 8.1(b)(i), the Party that has paid less than its
share (based on the allocation principles set forth in Section 8.1(a)) of the aggregate Authorized Commercialization Expenses for such Calendar Quarter shall make a reconciling payment in Euros to the other Party to achieve the appropriate
allocation of Authorized Commercialization Expenses as provided in Section 8.1(a).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       58   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (c)  Authorized Supply Expenses . Gilead Sub shall submit an invoice to BMS, no
later than ten (10) Business Days after the end of each calendar month, for an amount equal to the Working Percentage for the BMS Territory-Wide Percentage multiplied by the total amount of Authorized Supply Expenses incurred by Gilead Sub
during such month. Such invoice shall specify in reasonable detail all amounts included in such Authorized Supply Expenses. All Authorized Supply Expenses shall be invoiced in United States Dollars. For invoicing purposes, any Authorized Supply
Expenses incurred in a currency other than United States Dollars shall be converted to United States Dollars from the applicable currency by Gilead Sub in a manner consistent with its then-current standard worldwide currency conversion methodology,
as consistently applied. BMS shall pay any invoice submitted by Gilead Sub pursuant to this Section 8.1(c) within twenty (20) days after the date on which BMS receives such invoice.      (d)  Authorized Distribution Expenses . The Selling Party shall submit an invoice to the non-Selling Party, no later than ten
(10) Business Days after the end of each calendar month, for an amount equal to the Working Percentage for the BMS Territory-Wide Percentage (in the case that Gilead Sub is the Selling Party in such country) or the Gilead Territory-Wide
Percentage (in the case that BMS is the Selling Party in such country) multiplied by the total amount of Authorized Distribution Expenses incurred by the Selling Party (or its applicable Affiliate) during such month. Such invoice shall specify in
reasonable detail all amounts included in such Authorized Distribution Expenses. All Authorized Distribution Expenses shall be invoiced in United States Dollars. For invoicing purposes, any Authorized Distribution Expenses incurred in a currency
other than United States Dollars shall be converted to United States Dollars from the applicable currency by the Selling Party in a manner consistent with its then-current standard worldwide currency conversion methodology, as consistently applied.
The non-Selling Party shall pay any invoice submitted by the Selling Party pursuant to this Section 8.1(d) within thirty (30) days after the date on which the non-Selling Party receives such invoice.      (e)  Authorized Other Expenses .      (i) Each Party shall report to the other Party, no later than ten (10) Business Days after the end of each calendar month, any Authorized Other Expenses that are incurred during such month. Such report shall
specify in reasonable detail all amounts included in such Authorized Other Expenses during such month. All Authorized Other Expenses shall be reported in Euros. For reporting purposes, any Authorized Other Expenses incurred in a currency other than
Euros shall be converted to Euros from the applicable currency by the incurring Party in a manner consistent with its then-current standard worldwide currency conversion methodology, as consistently applied.      (ii) Authorized Other Expenses shall be subject to reimbursement, as follows. Within thirty (30) days after the date on which the
Authorized Other Expense reports for a particular month are due pursuant to Section 8.1(e)(i), the Party that has paid less than its share (based on the allocation principles set forth in Section 8.1(a)) of the aggregate Authorized Other
Expenses for such month shall make a reconciling payment in Euros to the other Party to achieve the appropriate allocation of such Authorized Other Expenses as provided in Section 8.1(a).         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       59   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (f) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8.1 to the contrary, any invoice
that a Party has a right to submit to the other Party pursuant to this Section 8.1 may be submitted to such other Party by a designated Affiliate of such invoicing Party, in which case such other Party shall submit payment to such designated
Affiliate.      (g) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8.1 to the contrary, no cost or expense shall be reimbursable
hereunder to the extent that it is reimbursable pursuant to the Financial Agreement, the EU Master Agreement or the MAH Shareholder Agreement.      8.2  Manufacturing Fee.       (a) BMS shall pay to Gilead Sub an amount equal to the Working Percentage (as
defined in the Financial Agreement) for the BMS Territory-Wide Percentage multiplied by the Manufacturing Fee (as defined in the Product Supply Agreement) paid or payable by Gilead Sub pursuant to Section 6.2 of the Product Supply Agreement,
subject to any adjustments made pursuant to the Financial Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) with respect to any Manufacturing Fee incurred by Gilead Sub pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement that arises out of the gross
negligence or intentional misconduct of Gilead Sub or any of its Affiliates, BMS shall have no payment obligation pursuant to this Section 8.2(a), and (ii) with respect to any Manufacturing Fee incurred by Gilead Sub pursuant to the
Product Supply Agreement that arises out of the gross negligence or intentional misconduct of BMS or any of its Affiliates, BMS shall pay, pursuant to this Section 8.2(a), such Manufacturing Fee in its entirety. For the avoidance of doubt, this
Section 8.2 shall apply with respect to the Manufacturing Fee for any Territory Combination Product, including any such Combination Product that is Lost (as defined in the Product Supply Agreement).      (b) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, upon receipt of an invoice from the Supply JV pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement for any
Manufacturing Fee with respect to which BMS has a corresponding payment obligation pursuant to Section 8.2(a), Gilead Sub shall invoice BMS in U.S. Dollars for the corresponding amount due under this Section 8.2. BMS shall pay any such
invoice within twenty (20) days following receipt of such invoice from Gilead Sub.      8.3  Sharing of Recoveries Obtained from the
Supply JV.       (a) Gilead Sub shall pay to BMS such proportion of any recoveries paid by the Supply JV to Gilead Sub
pursuant to Section 5.6.2 of the Product Supply Agreement, after deduction of any out-of-pocket expenses of Gilead Sub in obtaining such recoveries from the Supply JV pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement, that corresponds to the proportion
of the expenses to which such recoveries relate that were borne by BMS hereunder.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       60   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) In the event that a Party (or its applicable Affiliate) causes (during the period
in which such Party (or its Affiliate) holds title to a given quantity of Territory Combination Product), due to its gross negligence or intentional misconduct, the Loss (as defined in the Product Supply Services Agreement) of any such Combination
Product, then such Party shall be responsible for reimbursing the other Party (or its designated Affiliate) for the API Replacement Fee (as defined in the Product Supply Services Agreement) for the quantity(ies) of such other Party s API(s)
contained in such Lost Combination Product (which remedy shall be the sole remedy of the non-Selling Party or any of its Affiliates with respect to such Loss of API).      8.4  Other Payments.  Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, and except as otherwise provided in this Section 8, each Party promptly shall invoice the other Party for any amounts due under this Agreement in
the currency in which the corresponding expense is incurred by such Party and each Party shall pay any invoice provided by the other Party pursuant to this Section 8.4 within thirty (30) days after receipt of such invoice.   
     8.5  Adjustment to Country-Specific Percentages Following Generic Launch.  On a country-by-country basis, this Section 8.5 shall
apply with respect to the Country-Specific Percentages for each Affected Country commencing as of the first Calendar Quarter following the Calendar Quarter during which the applicable Generic Version Launch occurs in such country (where the
Country-Specific Percentages for the Calendar Year in which such Calendar Quarter occurs shall be calculated based on the Standard Country-Specific Percentages for the portion of such Calendar Year from its commencement through the Calendar Quarter
in which such Generic Version Launch occurs and thereafter pursuant to this Section 8.5). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in any Covered Agreement, the Country-Specific Percentages for the applicable country, for all purposes
under the Financial Agreement, the EU Master Agreement and any other Covered Agreement, shall be modified as follows (where any capitalized terms used in this Section 8.5 and not defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the
Financial Agreement):      (a)  Country-Specific Percentage of the Affected Party for any Country in the Territory . The
Country-Specific Percentage of the Affected Party with respect to the applicable Affected Country in the Territory for each Calendar Year shall equal, stated in percentage terms: a fraction,      the numerator of which is (i) the  [ * ]  in such country minus (ii) the sum of (A) the  [ * ]  in such country and
(B) in the event that there is a  [ * ]  with respect to such country, the Non-Affected Party s  [ * ] ; and      the denominator of which is the Net Selling Price of the Combination Product in such country.      (b)
 Country-Specific Percentage of the Non-Affected Party for any Country in the Territory . The Country-Specific Percentage of the Non-Affected Party with respect to the applicable country for a given Calendar Year shall equal: one hundred
percent (100%) minus the  [ * ]  with respect to such country and such Calendar Year, as determined pursuant to this Section 8.5.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       61   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (c)  Generic Version Launch of Two Components . Notwithstanding the foregoing,
in the event that there has been a Generic Version Launch with respect to Sustiva or Stocrin and either Viread or Emtriva, but not both (and not Truvada) in a given country, commencing as of the first Calendar Quarter following the Calendar Quarter
during which the Generic Version Launch triggering this clause (c) occurs in such country the following shall apply with respect to such country:      (i) Gilead Sub s Country-Specific Percentage shall equal the sum of (in each case stated in percentage terms):      (A) a fraction, the numerator of which equals the  [ * ]  (such product, the   Proprietary Product  ) in such country, and the denominator of which equals the  [ * ]  in such
country, and      (B) (1) a fraction, the numerator of which equals the  [ * ]  that is not the Proprietary Product
(  Gilead Non-Proprietary Product  ) and the denominator of which is the sum of such  [ * ] , multiplied by (2) a fraction, the numerator of which equals (x) the  [ * ]  in such country minus (y) the
 [ * ] , and the denominator of which equals the  [ * ]  in such country;  provided,  that if any  [ * ]  described in clause (1) is not available, the fraction in clause (1) shall equal
 [ * ] . For purposes of clause (1) of this Section 8.5(c)(i)(B), the  [ * ]       By way of illustration, in the event that the
Proprietary Product is Viread (and the foregoing proviso does not apply), Gilead Sub s Country-Specific Percentage would be equal to the sum of:       [*]       (ii) BMS s Country-Specific Percentage shall equal one hundred percent
(100%) minus  [ * ] , as determined pursuant to the foregoing clause (i).      (d)  Generic Version Launch of
Three Components . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that there has been a Generic Version Launch with respect to Sustiva or Stocrin, as applicable, and both Single Agent Products of Gilead Sub (or Truvada) in a given Affected Country,
with respect to such country, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith the appropriate adjustments to the Country-Specific Percentages for the applicable Affected Country for the period commencing as of the first Calendar Quarter following the
Calendar Quarter during which the Generic Version Launch triggering this clause (d) occurs in such country.      (e)
 Effect of Modifications . For the avoidance of doubt, the Working Percentages (as defined in the Financial Agreement) with respect to the Country-Specific Percentages, and any calculations to be made hereunder or under the EU Master Agreement
or any Covered Agreement using Country-Specific Percentages (or such Working Percentages), including the calculation of any applicable Transfer Price or the Interim Transfer Price, shall be adjusted to reflect any modifications to the
Country-Specific Percentages pursuant to this Section 8.5. Each Party shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, be bound by any such adjustments.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       62   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   8.6  Payment Terms.  Except as otherwise agreed by the Parties, all payments hereunder to a
Party shall be made by wire transfer or electronic funds transfer to such bank account as the payee Party may designate from time to time by notice to the payor Party. Any amounts due hereunder shall be paid in the currency in which such amounts are
invoiced.      8.7  Interest.  Interest on any payments due and owing pursuant to this Agreement that are not timely made shall accrue
from the date such payments are due at the lesser of (i) an annual rate equal to the sum of (a) the prime rate of interest in force on the date the payment is due as published in The Wall Street Journal (Eastern United States Edition) (in
the case of payments to be made in United States dollars) or the European Central Bank main refinancing rate (as published in the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority for Ireland website www.centralbank.ie) (in the case of payments to be
made in any currency other than United States dollars) and (b) three hundred (300) basis points and (ii) the maximum rate of interest permissible under Applicable Law.      8.8  Taxes.  Each Party shall be responsible for any and all sales, use, excise, value added, goods and services and similar taxes and charges
imposed with respect to any payments to such Party by the other Party pursuant to this Section 8,  provided  that each Party shall be responsible for any taxes (including any such taxes imposed by way of withholding) in the nature of
income or franchise taxes or based on or measured by gross or net income imposed with respect to its income. Each Party shall pay any and all withholding taxes or similar charges imposed by any governmental unit that are required to be withheld from
any amounts due to the Party to be paid pursuant to this Section 8 to the proper taxing authority, and proof of payment of such taxes or charges shall be secured and sent to such Party as evidence of such payment. All amounts paid by a Party
pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence with respect to taxes for which the other Party is responsible pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 8.8 shall be paid for the account of such other Party and deducted from the amounts due
from the paying Party to such other Party pursuant to this Section 8.      8.9  Royalty Payments to Third Parties.          (a) If a Patent of any Third Party is or would be infringed or any such Person s trade secrets are or would be misappropriated solely
as a direct result of the incorporation of TDF, FTC or both TDF and FTC in the Combination Product, then Gilead Sub shall be solely responsible for any royalty, license fee or other payment obligation to such Person (which shall not qualify as an
Authorized Expense) in connection with any such infringement or misappropriation in connection with the Manufacture of Territory Combination Product (or the TDF or FTC included therein) or any Commercialization Activities or other activities
conducted hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement. If a Patent of any Third Party is or would be infringed or any such Person s trade secrets are or would be misappropriated solely as a direct result of the incorporation of EFV in the
Combination Product, then BMS shall be solely responsible for any royalty, license fee or other payment obligation to such Person (which shall not qualify as an Authorized Expense) in connection with any such infringement or misappropriation in
connection with the Manufacture of Territory Combination Product (or the EFV included therein) or any Commercialization Activities or other activities conducted hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       63   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) All royalty, license fee or other payments by Gilead Sub or BMS (or any of their
respective Affiliates), other than those covered by Section 8.9(a), to any Third Party (other than to the extent comprising Losses (as defined in the EU Master Agreement) covered by Section 3 of the EU Master Agreement) in connection with
licenses granted to any Party or any of its Affiliates under any Patents or trade secrets owned or controlled by any Third Party that are reasonably necessary for (i) the performance of either Party s obligations under this Agreement or
any Co-Promotion Agreement or (ii) the Manufacture of Territory Combination Product, in each case ((i) and (ii)), shall constitute Authorized Commercialization Expenses. For the avoidance of doubt, no royalty, licensee fee or other payment by
BMS (or any of its Affiliates) pursuant to the EFV License Agreement shall constitute Authorized Commercialization Expenses.      (c) Notwithstanding Section 8.9(b), the royalties, license fees or other payments described therein shall constitute Authorized Commercialization Expenses solely to the extent that (i) with respect to any license agreement
existing as of the Effective Date, the Party that is a party to the applicable license agreement has notified the other Party, on or before the Effective Date, of the obligation to pay such royalty, license fee or other payment in connection
with the foregoing activities, (ii) with respect to any license agreement not covered by clause (i), the Party has conferred with the other Party prior to entering into such license agreement and has obtained the other Party s consent
to the applicable terms of such agreement and (iii) in the event that any such fee or payment is not attributable solely to the foregoing activities ( e.g. , it covers not only the Exploitation of Territory Combination Product, but
also the Exploitation of any other product(s) or Combination Product other than Territory Combination Product), the Parties shall negotiate in good faith an appropriate manner of apportionment). In the event that a Party denies its consent pursuant
to the foregoing clause (ii) with respect to a given license agreement and, as a result, the royalties, license fees or other payments incurred by the other Party pursuant to such Agreement are excluded from Authorized Commercialization
Expenses and such first Party and its Affiliates are not licensed under such agreement, then, notwithstanding Section 3.5(c) of the EU Master Agreement, such unlicensed Party shall be responsible, as between Gilead Sub (and its Affiliates) and
BMS (and its Affiliates), for any Losses (as defined in the EU Master Agreement) that would be borne (in the absence of application of this sentence) by the Parties (or their applicable respective Affiliates) pursuant to Section 3.5(c) of the
EU Master Agreement, to the extent that such Losses would not have arisen if such unlicensed Party had been licensed under such license agreement.      (d) Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent either Party or any of its Affiliates from entering into any license agreement with respect to the Combination Product or otherwise;  provided, however,  that in
the event that a Party desires to enter into such a license agreement with respect to the Combination Product, such Party shall notify the other Party. If following such notification, the Parties mutually agree to coordinate with respect to entering
into such a license agreement and the negotiations with respect thereto, the Parties shall coordinate in good faith with regard to the foregoing.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       64   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    SECTION 9        TERRITORY COMBINATION PRODUCT RECALLS       Each Party acknowledges that any determinations with respect to any product
disposal, recall or withdrawal of Territory Combination Product that are made pursuant to the MAH Shareholder Agreement or any other applicable Covered Agreement are binding on the Parties and that any expenses with respect to any of the foregoing
are allocated between the Parties (and their respective Affiliates) as set forth in the MAH Shareholder Agreement.       SECTION 10
       REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES       10.1  Generally.  Each Party represents and warrants to the other Party that: (a) it is not aware of any pending or threatened litigation (and has not received any communication) that alleges that such
Party s activities related to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement have violated, or that by conducting the activities as contemplated in this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement such Party would violate, any of the intellectual
property rights of any other Person (after giving effect to the license grants in this Agreement), and (b) such Party has the right to grant the licenses granted by such Party to the other Party hereunder, and has not, prior to the Effective
Date, made a grant to any other Person of any right or license that would conflict with any grant of rights or licenses granted by such Party to the other Party hereunder.      10.2  Relationship to Standard Terms.  The representations and warranties set forth in Section 10.1 shall be without limitation of the
representations, warranties and covenants set forth in the Standard Terms.       SECTION 11        LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY AND RELATED MATTERS       11.1  Limits on Liability.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, and without limitation of any liability limitation set forth in the Standard Terms or herein or any indemnity obligation set forth in the EU Master Agreement,
(a) with respect to any losses resulting from any breach by Gilead Sub of any representation or covenant hereunder, to the extent such losses arise out of any corresponding breach by the Supply JV of any representation or covenant under the
Product Supply Agreement, the liability, if any, of Gilead Sub to BMS hereunder  [ * ]  for such losses (less any reasonable, out-of-pocket expenses of Gilead Sub in obtaining such compensation from the Supply JV thereunder) and
(b) with respect to losses other than those covered by the foregoing clause (a), a Party shall be liable hereunder with respect to losses of the other Party (other than Losses as defined in the EU Master Agreement)  [ * ]  by such
Party or its Affiliates or subcontractors.      11.2  Exceptions to Standard Terms Limitations.  Notwithstanding Section 4.3 of the
Standard Terms as incorporated herein, the Parties shall be liable to each other for  [ * ] , if applicable, in connection with any breach of Section 4.1, the Pricing Rules or the Discount Rules,  provided  that such breach
arises out of acts or omissions constituting gross negligence or intentional misconduct.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       65   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   11.3  Relationship to EU Master Agreement.  Nothing in this Section 11 is intended to, or
shall operate to limit, a Party s (or its Affiliates ) rights to indemnification or obligations of indemnity under any other agreement, including the EU Master Agreement, and for clarity,  losses  as used in Section 11.1
shall not be construed to include losses arising from Third Party Claims (as defined in the EU Master Agreement).       SECTION 12
       TERM AND TERMINATION       12.1  Term.  The term of this Agreement (  Term  ) shall commence as of the Effective Date and shall continue until the expiration of the last to expire Patent which affords market exclusivity in the Territory with
respect to the Combination Product or any component thereof unless earlier terminated pursuant to this Section 12 or the Standard Terms as incorporated herein.      12.2  Voluntary Termination.  Without limitation of the bases for termination set forth in the Standard Terms, either Party (the   Terminating Party  ) may terminate this Agreement in its entirety
by written notice to the other Party (the   Continuing Party  ), which termination shall be effective on the later of (a) the last day of the second (2nd) Calendar Quarter after the Calendar Quarter in which such notice is
delivered to the other Party and (b)  [ * ] . In the event that, at least ninety (90) days prior to the date on which such termination would become effective (in the absence of application of this sentence), the other Party
provides written notice to the Terminating Party indicating that such other Party does not desire to continue to commercialize the Combination Product in the Territory, the effective date of such termination shall be, notwithstanding the foregoing,
the earlier of (i) the date on which the Territory Combination Product is withdrawn in each country in the Territory and (ii) if the Combination Product is licensed to a Third Party for distribution in the Territory, the date on which such
Third Party assumes such distribution. Further, in the case in which a notice is provided pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, the Parties shall coordinate to seek any required approvals to withdraw the Territory Combination Product in
each country in the Territory and, provided that any such approvals are obtained, to withdraw the Territory Combination Product in all countries in the Territory or, if mutually agreed by the Parties, to license the Combination Product to a Third
Party. In the case of any such withdrawal or licensing to a Third Party, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith appropriate wind-down provisions in connection therewith (and Section 12.3(b) shall apply solely to the extent applicable). For
clarity, termination of this Agreement does not automatically terminate any other Covered Agreement (other than the Co-Promotion Agreements) but may entitle a Party or its Affiliates to terminate one or more of such other Covered Agreements pursuant
to their terms (including the Standard Terms as incorporate therein).      12.3  Consequences of Expiration or Termination.    
  (a)  Expiration or Termination Pursuant to the Standard Terms . Upon expiration of this Agreement or termination of this Agreement
pursuant to the Standard Terms, the provisions of this Section 12.3(a) shall apply. The license grants in Section 7 to a Party shall survive only to the extent necessary to enable such Party to perform any obligations hereunder  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       66   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 that survive such termination. No later than thirty (30) days after the date of such expiration or termination, each Party shall make arrangements for,
at the election of the other Party, either the return or disposal of any Confidential Information of the other Party, whether such Confidential Information is in tangible or intangible form (except for one (1) copy which may be retained solely
for archival purposes);  provided, however , that the foregoing shall not apply with respect to any such Confidential Information to the extent that this Agreement or any other binding agreement between the Parties (or their
respective Affiliates) expressly provides that the Returning Party retains the right to use such Confidential Information ( e.g. , in the case of a surviving license) following such termination. Further, with respect to any termination of this
Agreement pursuant to the Standard Terms, the Parties shall coordinate in good faith to ensure an appropriate wind down of the activities conducted under this Agreement.      (b)  Consequences in the Case of Voluntary Termination . Upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 12.2, the
provisions of this Section 12.3(b) shall apply:      (i) The license grants in Section 7 from the Terminating Party to
the Continuing Party shall survive only to the extent necessary to enable the Continuing Party to identify the Terminating Party on the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product to the extent required by
Applicable Law.      (ii) The Continuing Party shall pay to the Terminating Party such amounts as are determined pursuant to the
formula set forth in Annex I on the dates specified therein. Each such payment shall be accompanied by a written report, providing a detailed breakdown of the calculation of amounts paid for the relevant period. For the avoidance of doubt, Sections
8.6 through 8.9 shall apply to any such payments.      (iii) The Terminating Party, at its own election (of which it shall
promptly notify the Continuing Party in writing), shall (pursuant to a license or supply agreement containing the following terms and any other terms upon which the Parties mutually agree) either (A) enable the Continuing Party to Manufacture
quantities of the API(s) of the Terminating Party for use in the Manufacture of the Combination Product for distribution in the Territory, in which event the Terminating Party shall (1) automatically be deemed to grant a royalty-free, exclusive
(as to the Combination Product, but not any other product) license to the Continuing Party (or its Third Party designee, which shall be reasonably acceptable to the Terminating Party) (x) under the Terminating Party s Patents covering such
Manufacture and Information and Inventions used in such Manufacture by or on behalf of the Terminating Party, to Manufacture such API(s) for use in the Manufacture of the Combination Product for distribution in the Territory, and (y) under the
Terminating Party s Patents covering the composition or use of such API(s), to sell or otherwise distribute such API(s) (for inclusion in such Combination Product or as included in such Combination Product) in such country, which license shall
be sublicensable to any Third Party distributor of such Party or any of its Affiliates, and (2) provide reasonable technical assistance to such Continuing Party or Third Party designee (which choice of recipient shall be subject to the prior
approval of the Terminating Party, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), at the Continuing Party s expense on the Terminating Party s then-current standard terms and conditions; or (B) continue to supply to the
Supply JV (or, at the election of the Continuing Party, a designee of the Continuing Party) on a non-exclusive basis such  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       67   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 quantities of such API(s) as such Continuing Party may request for Manufacture of the Combination Product for distribution in the Territory, at a transfer
price of such supply equal to  [ * ]  of the Cost of Goods of such API. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Terminating Party may elect to cease the Manufacture of such API(s) or to terminate the supply arrangement referred to in the
foregoing clause (B), in which case the Terminating Party shall (x) give the Continuing Party at least twelve (12) months  written notice prior to ceasing such Manufacture or otherwise terminating such agreement unless the Continuing
Party obtains an alternate source for the supply of such API(s) in which case the Terminating Party may cease Manufacture upon the Continuing Party obtaining such alternate supply of API(s), (y) grant to the Continuing Party the license
described in clause (A)(1) above, and (z) provide to the Continuing Party the technical assistance described in clause (A)(2) above. Further, in event that, as an initial matter, the Terminating Party elects to proceed under the foregoing
clause (A) rather than clause (B), the Terminating Party shall supply its API(s) for use in the Manufacture of the Combination Product for distribution in the Territory at a transfer price of such supply equal to  [ * ]  of the Cost
of Goods of such API(s) unless and until the Terminating Party has performed its obligations under clause (A) and the Continuing Party has secured a source of supply of such API(s) (and any necessary regulatory approvals have been obtained with
respect to such source of supply), provided that the Continuing Party is using diligent efforts to secure such source of supply and such approvals. In the event that the Terminating Party and the Supply JV or designee of the Continuing Party enter
into a supply arrangement for API(s) pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 12.3(b)(iii), and thereafter the Supply JV or such designee, as the case may be, desires to terminate such supply arrangement (without receiving from the
Terminating Party the license described in clause (A)(1) above or the technical assistance described in clause (A)(2) above), the Continuing Party shall provide twelve (12) months  written notice thereof to the Terminating Party.
     (iv) Except to the extent necessary to enable the Continuing Party to identify the Terminating Party (or its applicable
Affiliate) on the applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets for the Combination Product to the extent required by Applicable Law, the Continuing Party shall not (and shall cause its Affiliates not to) use the Trademark or name of the
Terminating Party (or any of its Affiliates) (A) on any labeling, packaging and advertising materials for the Combination Product in the Territory or (B) otherwise in connection with the Continuing Party s business with respect to the
Combination Product in the Territory.      (v) The Terminating Party shall promptly (and in any event within thirty
(30) days thereafter) make arrangements for the return or disposal, at the Continuing Party s option, of any Confidential Information, in tangible or intangible form, except for (x) one (1) copy which may be retained solely for
archival purposes and (y) Confidential Information relating to any surviving licenses and other rights pursuant to any Covered Agreement.      (vi) For the avoidance of doubt, the pricing and other provisions contained in Section 4, the Pricing Rules and the Discount Rules shall terminate.      12.4  Accrued Rights; Survival.       (a) Termination or expiration of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to any rights that shall have accrued to the benefit of a Party prior to such termination or expiration. Such termination or expiration shall
not relieve a Party from obligations that are expressly indicated to survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       68   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) Without limiting anything contained in Section 12.3, in the event of any
expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason, this Section 12.4 and Sections 3.6, 4.4, 5.9, 5.11, 6.3, 7.2, 7.3, 8 (except Section 8.5), 9, 10, 11, 12.3 and 13 (except 13.4) shall survive such expiration or termination;
 provided, however,  that Section 5.9, Section 6.3, Section 8.1, Section 8.2, and Section 8.9(b) shall survive solely to the extent that the applicable expenses (or in the case of Section 8.9(b), royalties, license
fees or other payments) were incurred in connection with activities, including Manufacturing, performed prior to the date of expiration or termination of this Agreement.       SECTION 13        MISCELLANEOUS       13.1  Standard Terms.  The Standard Terms are hereby incorporated herein.      13.2  Assignment; Subcontracting.       (a) In the event that, with respect to a Party, there is a sale of substantially all of the assets of such Party and its Affiliates to which the Covered Agreements, collectively, relate or a change of control of such
Party s Parent (such Party, the   Transferring Party  , and such event, a   Change of Control  ), without limitation of Section 6.5 of the Standard Terms as incorporated herein, the Transferring Party shall
give the other Party written notice thereof within ten (10) days, identifying the purchaser, acquirer or surviving entity (the   Third Party Acquirer  ), as the case may be. If immediately prior to such Change of Control, such
Third Party Acquirer is marketing in the Territory a Competing Product that was commercially available as of the Effective Date, then, upon written notice from the other Party, at its election, to the Transferring Party within thirty (30) days
of such other Party s receiving written notice of such Change of Control, such Third Party Acquirer shall have six (6) months to divest any such Competing Product. If such Third Party Acquirer fails to complete a timely divestiture of such
Competing Product: (i) the performance obligations (other than payment obligations and related financial reporting obligations) of the Parties under this Agreement shall terminate, except to the extent of those minimum obligations reasonably
required for Gilead Sub (or its applicable Affiliate) to sell the Combination Product in the Territory and to perform its obligations with respect to pricing with respect to the Combination Product as set forth in Section 4.1 and the Pricing
Rules and the Discount Rules (as modified by Section 4.3, if applicable), (ii) the Commercialization Plan and Commercialization Budget shall terminate, (iii) each Co-Promotion Agreement shall terminate as set forth in such agreement,
(iv) each Party shall have the right to Promote, Market and otherwise commercialize (but, in the case of BMS, not to sell or otherwise distribute) the Combination Product in the Territory without coordination with the other Party under this
Agreement (including without any obligation to reach agreement on Marketing materials);  provided  that each Party shall ensure that its Marketing materials with respect to the Combination Product in the Territory comply with Applicable Law
and, without limitation of the foregoing, shall be consistent with applicable Product SmPC, Labeling and Package Leaflets, and (v) Gilead Sub shall prepare and submit to the Supply JV any and all Forecasts and Orders, along with any required
Supporting Data, in its sole discretion.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       69   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (b) Either Party may subcontract the performance of its obligations hereunder,
including any Commercialization Activities assigned to it under the Commercialization Plan;  provided ,  however , that the subcontracting Party shall oversee the performance by its subcontractors of such subcontracted activities in a
manner that would be reasonably expected to result in their timely and successful completion and shall remain responsible for the performance of such activities and, to the extent applicable, the Commercialization Plan. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, neither Gilead Sub nor BMS may engage any subcontractor, including any contract sales organization, to perform any Details of the Combination Product in the Territory;  provided, however,  that, subject to Section 5.1, the
conduct of Details by a Third Party Distributor consistent with the arrangements entered into with such Third Party Distributor by one or both of the Parties pursuant to this Agreement shall be permitted.      13.3  Employees.  The Parties agree that, as between the Parties, all actions taken or omitted to be taken by any employee of a Party (or any of its
Affiliates) in his or her capacity as a member of any committee established pursuant to this Agreement or any Co-Promotion Agreement, and all other actions taken or omitted to be taken by any employee of a Party (or any of its Affiliates) with
respect to the Commercialization Activities and any other activities conducted hereunder or under any Co-Promotion Agreement, shall be attributed only to such Party.      13.4  Nonsolicitation of Employees.  During the Term, each Party agrees that neither it nor any of its Affiliates that participates in or is responsible for the commercialization of the Combination Product
pursuant to this Agreement shall recruit, solicit or induce any employee of the other Party s, or any of its Affiliates , HIV/Virology sales force (including any manager) or any HIV/Virology marketing or medical personnel employed in the
Territory to terminate his or her employment with such other Party or its Affiliate and become employed by or consult for such other Party or its Affiliate, whether or not such employee is a full-time employee of such other Party or its Affiliate,
and whether or not such employment is pursuant to a written agreement or is at-will. For purposes of the foregoing,  recruit,   solicit  or  induce  shall not be deemed to mean (a) general solicitations by Third
Party placement specialists or firms ( e . g ., headhunters) or (b) other general solicitations of employment (including responses to general advertisements), in each case ((a) and (b)) not specifically targeted at employees of a
Party or any of its Affiliates.      13.5  Notice.  The   Notice Address   for each Party is as follows:      if to Gilead Sub, to:      John F. Milligan, Ph.D, Chief
Operating Officer      Gilead Sciences Limited      333 Lakeside Drive Foster City, CA 94404      Facsimile No.:  [ * ]          
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       70   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   with copies to:      Gregg H. Alton, Esq.      Senior Vice President and General Counsel      Gilead Sciences Limited      333 Lakeside Drive
     Foster City, CA 94404      Facsimile No.:  [ * ]       and:      Julie O Neill, General Manager      Gilead Sciences Limited      Unit 13 Stillorgan Industrial Park      Blackrock, Co. Dublin, Ireland      Facsimile No.:  [ * ]       and:      Monica Viziano, Director, Project
Management      Gilead Sciences Limited      333 Lakeside Drive      Foster City, CA 94404      Facsimile No.:  [ * ]       and:      Covington   Burling LLP      One Front
Street      San Francisco, CA 94111      Attn: James C. Snipes, Esq.      if to BMS, to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb      3 rue Joseph Monnier      Rueil Malmaison, France 92500      Attn: Sr. VP
Europe Marketing   Brand Commercialization      Facsimile No.:  [ * ]       with a copy to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Route 206 and Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08540 USA         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       71   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   Attn:  Vice President and Senior Counsel,                  Corporate and Business Development      Facsimile No.:  [ * ]       and:
     Frank Kuchma, Director, Alliance Management      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      Route 206 and Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543 USA      13.6  Public
Announcements.  The following shall constitute a  Restricted Matter,  and as such shall be subject to Section 2.2 of the Standard Terms: any matter concerning this Agreement or its subject matter.      13.7  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement, together with the Annexes attached hereto, the EU Master Agreement and any other Existing Covered
Agreements (as defined in the EU Master Agreement) to which the Parties are parties that set forth rights or obligations of the Parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement shall constitute, on and as of the Effective Date, the
entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and all prior or contemporaneous understandings or agreements (other than the foregoing agreements), whether written or oral, between the Parties with respect to
such subject matter are hereby superseded in their entireties, including the Interim Agreement and the Interim Manufacturing Agreement (and the Parties shall, or shall cause their respective applicable Affiliates to, terminate the Interim
Agreement).       [Signature Pages Follow]          
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       72   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Parties have caused this Commercialization Agreement to be duly
executed and delivered as of the date first above written.       

SIGNED for and on behalf of     Gilead Sciences Limited

/s/ John F. Milligan  

December 10, 2007   
 
  John F. Milligan, Ph.D  

Date   
 
  Chief Operating Officer  

SIGNATURE PAGE TO COMMERCIALIZATION AGREEMENT         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .    

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          

SIGNED for and on behalf of     Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company   

/s/ Graham Brazier  

December 10, 2007   
 
  Graham Brazier  

Date   
 
  Vice President and Head of Business Development  

SIGNATURE PAGE TO COMMERCIALIZATION AGREEMENT         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .    

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    List of Annexes        

Annex A  
      
  Cost of Goods   

Annex B  
      
  Initial EUOC Members and Initial Alliance Managers   

Annex C  
      
  Pricing Rules and Discount Rules   

Annex D  
      
  Form of Co-Promotion Agreement   

Annex E  
      
  Distribution Terms   

Annex F  
      
  Initial Commercialization Plan and Initial Commercialization Budget   

Annex G  
      
  Gilead Licensed Trademarks   

Annex H  
      
  BMS Licensed Trademarks   

Annex I  
      
  Voluntary Termination Compensation Formula   

Annex J  
      
  Initial Launch Period Commitments   

Annex K  
      
  Forecast Principles and Supporting Data   

Annex L  
      
  Territory A Countries   
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       75   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex A        Cost of Goods         Cost of Goods   shall mean, with respect to the applicable API, the amount equal to
the sum (expressed in U.S. Dollars per kilogram of the applicable API) of  [ * ] .         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       A-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex B        Initial EUOC Members and Initial Alliance Managers        Gilead EUOC Members :       [ * ]        [ * ]        [ * ]        [ * ]        Gilead Alliance Manager :       [ * ]        BMS EUOC Members :       [ * ]        [ * ]        [ * ]        [ * ]        BMS Alliance Manager :       [ * ]          
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       B-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex C        Pricing Rules and Discount Rules        [ * ]          
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       C-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex D        Form of Co-Promotion Agreement        [*]        [ Omitted ]          
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       D-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex E        Distribution Terms       Capitalized terms used in this Annex and not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in
the agreement to which this Annex is attached (the  Agreement ). Section references used in this Annex shall refer to Sections in the Agreement except as otherwise provided. The terms set forth in this Annex shall apply solely (a) in
the case of Gilead Sub as the Selling Party, with respect to Territory Combination Product intended for distribution in the Co-Promote Territory or any other country in Territory A for which Gilead Sub has been designated as the Selling Party
pursuant to the Agreement, from and after the date on which the Supply JV transfers title to such Combination Product to Gilead Sub pursuant to the Product Supply Agreement or (b) in the case of BMS as the Selling Party, with respect to
Territory Combination Product intended for distribution in any country in Territory A for which BMS has been designated as the Selling Party pursuant to the Agreement, from and after the date on which Gilead Sub transfers title to such Combination
Product to BMS or its applicable Affiliate pursuant to the BMS Product Supply Agreement(s). For purposes of this Annex, a Third Party Distributor shall not constitute a Distribution Subcontractor unless mutually agreed by the Parties in writing;
 provided,  that each Party shall cause its Third Party Distributors to be subject to obligations with respect to its distribution of Territory Combination Product that are substantially similar to the obligations of the Selling Party set forth
in this Annex E.          Distribution Subcontractor   shall mean any Third Party subcontractor that performs storage, warehousing,
shipping or other distribution activities on behalf of a Selling Party (or its Affiliates) (acting in such capacity) under the Agreement;    provided    that such Distribution Subcontractor does not take title to such Combination
Product. For the avoidance of doubt, neither a Contract Manufacturer nor a Third Party Distributor shall be deemed to be a Distribution Subcontractor and a Distribution Subcontractor shall not be deemed to be a Contract Manufacturer or a Third Party
Distributor.               Material Safety Data Sheet       shall have the meaning set forth in the Product Supply
Agreement.            Quality Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the Product Supply Services Agreement.        Selling Party Products   shall mean the Selling Party s (or its Affiliates ) own products for the treatment of HIV infection in adult humans.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Combination Product is not a Selling Party Product.      1.  General . The Selling Party with respect to a given country
in the Territory shall (a) be the exclusive distributor of Combination Product in such country and (b) perform or cause to be performed activities as are reasonably required to distribute Combination Product in such country (any such
activities, the   Distribution Activities  ), including inventory management and control, warehousing and storage, order filling, invoicing, collection of sales proceeds, determination and processing of charge-backs and rebates,
preparation of sales records and reports, customer relations and services, and handling of returns.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       E-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   2.  Inventory Management and Control .      (a) The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, receive Territory Combination Product
inventory (i) in the case of Gilead Sub as the Selling Party, directly from the Contract Manufacturer (as defined in the Product Supply Services Agreement) or (ii) in the case of BMS as the Selling Party, as specified in the BMS Product
Supply Agreement(s). Prior to distributing any quantity of Territory Combination Product, the Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, ensure that it has the proper certificate of
analysis and other appropriate documentation with respect to such Combination Product as required by Applicable Law, including GMP.      (b)
The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, (i) monitor Territory Combination Product inventory for products that are short-dated and out-dated, as determined in accordance with
the Selling Party s standard operating procedures (  SOPs  ) and GMP, and (ii) withhold any such product from use and ensure its proper destruction.      (c) The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, perform a periodic stock reconciliation
by comparing the actual and recorded quantities of Territory Combination Product. If there are any significant stock discrepancies, the Selling Party shall promptly notify the non-Selling Party and shall investigate any such discrepancies. The
non-Selling Party shall have the right to participate in the investigation made by the Selling Party with respect to such discrepancies, upon written request made promptly after receiving notice of any discrepancy.      3.  Warehousing and Storage .      (a) The Selling Party
shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, maintain temperature, humidity (if applicable) and other environmental controls in compliance with storage requirements listed on the labeling of Territory
Combination Product and the Material Safety Data Sheet for the Combination Product. The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, ensure that Territory Combination Product is received,
stored, segregated, and distributed in compliance with Applicable Law and quality, storage and distribution requirements referred to in the Material Safety Data Sheet.      (b) The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, maintain premises and control systems that provide a commercially reasonable level of security against
the theft or alteration of Territory Combination Product. The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, maintain, or cause to be maintained, a clean environment, pest control program,
and any other deterrent measure normally utilized by the Selling Party to provide a commercially reasonable level of contamination prevention for Territory Combination Product.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       E-2   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   (c) The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution
Subcontractor to, perform receipt and inspection of all incoming shipments to confirm item(s), quantity and suitability (as may reasonably be determined by such receipt and inspection) before authorizing such shipments for approval for distribution.
The Selling Party shall notify the non-Selling Party promptly in the event of any deviation(s) with respect to such shipments that requires an investigation (as well as the results of such investigation) pursuant to the Selling Party s SOPs,
Applicable Law and any applicable Covered Agreement. The Selling Party shall keep or cause to be kept appropriate reconciliation records of the receipts with respect to such shipments.      (d) Without limitation of its obligations under any Covered Agreement with respect to product recalls or withdrawals, the Selling Party shall ensure that
a system is in place to immediately withhold released quantities of Territory Combination Product from shipment when notified to do so by or on behalf of the MAH.      (e) The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, investigate and prepare an incident report for damage to any significant quantity of Territory
Combination Product that occurs under its, its Distribution Subcontractor s or its Affiliate s control. The Selling Party shall make available to the non-Selling Party pursuant to Section 9(a) of this Annex, or pursuant to the
non-Selling Party s reasonable request, such incident reports indicating the cause of such damage and shall propose an action plan and corrective measures needed in order to avoid reoccurrence of any such incident resulting in damage to
significant quantities of Territory Combination Product.      4.  Order Filling .      (a) The Selling Party shall receive orders for Territory Combination Product through means used by the Selling Party for the Selling Party Products. The
Selling Party may reject an order for Territory Combination Product only if such rejection is reasonable under the circumstances.      (b) The
Selling Party shall distribute Territory Combination Product according to the shipping orders received based on remaining shelf life as reflected on the product label ( i.e. , inventory with the shortest remaining shelf life shall be shipped
first), and only in the quantities and to those markets within the Territory indicated in the applicable shipping orders. A picking order shall be created only against an existing shipping order. The Selling Party shall perform appropriate checks
before a picking order can be shipped and shall follow the Selling Party s SOPs and Applicable Law in conducting such checks.      (c) The
Selling Party shall transport, or cause to be transported, all quantities of Territory Combination Product to Customers, its Affiliates and its Distribution Subcontractors in a manner that provides commercially reasonable protection of product
integrity and maintenance of the applicable storage conditions.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       E-3   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
   5.  Purchase of Combination Product by Customers .      (a) The Selling Party (or its applicable Affiliate) shall invoice the Customer for Territory Combination Product upon delivery of such Combination
Product to the Customer. Such invoices shall be inclusive of any applicable taxes.      (b) For each order of Territory Combination Product
shipped pursuant to the Agreement, the Selling Party shall, or shall cause its applicable Affiliate or a Distribution Subcontractor to, be responsible for collecting payment from the applicable Customer pursuant to the invoice delivered by the
Selling Party and shall otherwise manage the receivable resulting from such order using the same collection procedures and efforts applicable to the Selling Party Products.      6.  Customer Relations and Services . The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, provide customer relations services with respect to Combination
Product sales in the Territory. Such services shall consist of handling incoming customer calls and documenting and resolving customer complaints in accordance with the Selling Party s SOPs for the Selling Party Products.          7.  Returns . The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, accept and process
Territory Combination Product returns in accordance with the Selling Party s return policy for the Selling Party Products.              8.  Records Retention . The Selling Party shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Selling Party or a Distribution Subcontractor to, retain all records relating to the performance of Distribution Activities (including
records of receipt, storage, picking, shipping, and environmental controls) for at least the duration of the applicable Combination Product s labeled shelf life plus one (1) year, but in all cases for not less than the periods required by
the Selling Party s record retention policies. The Selling Party shall retain all records of any disposal of Territory Combination Product by or on behalf of the Selling Party (or its Affiliates) in accordance with the Selling Party s
record retention policies, unless Applicable Law dictates otherwise in which case such records will be kept in accordance with Applicable Law. Subject to the preceding provisions of this Section 8, the non-Selling Party shall have access to the
original documents pursuant to Section 9 of this Annex.           9.  Inspection of Facilities; Certain Regulatory Matters .      (a) During the Term, the non-Selling Party shall have the right to visit the facilities used in the performance of Distribution Activities once per
Calendar Year during normal business hours upon reasonable prior notice to the Selling Party, its applicable Affiliate or its applicable Distribution Subcontractor, as appropriate;  provided  that (i) the visit does not unreasonably
interfere with the operations at the applicable facility and (ii) if the visit requires access to the facilities of a Distribution Subcontractor, the non-Selling Party must obtain such Distribution Subcontractor s consent with the
reasonable assistance of the Selling Party. In  
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       E-4   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
  
 addition, during the Term, the non-Selling Party shall have the right to conduct a  For Cause  audit at any time, when requested as a reasonable
response to any audit notice or inquiry regarding Territory Combination Product by any Regulatory Authority, an unresolved deviation in relation to the performance of Distribution Activities, or customer complaints or Adverse Events (as defined in
the SDEA) regarding Territory Combination Product. During any such visit or audit, the non-Selling Party shall have the right to inspect and audit the Selling Party s quality system, materials management, records, and facilities for the purpose
of determining compliance with Applicable Law and this Annex. The Selling Party shall, and shall use its reasonable efforts to cause any Distribution Subcontractor to, cooperate fully in any such inspection conducted pursuant to this
Section 9(a). For any contractual or regulatory deficiencies determined as a result of such a visit or audit, the Selling Party shall, or shall cause the applicable Distribution Subcontractor to, take a commercially reasonable course of action
and resolution, and the non-Selling Party shall be entitled to conduct additional audits to ensure that any such deficiencies have been resolved by the Selling Party or the applicable Distribution Subcontractor, as applicable.      (b) The Selling Party shall (i) notify the non-Selling Party of any inspections by any Regulatory Authority of any facility used in the performance
of Distribution Activities within five (5) Business Days of the inspection and (ii) provide the non-Selling Party with copies of all regulatory correspondence relating to any such inspection and Territory Combination Product within five
(5) Business Days of receipt of the correspondence;  provided  that the Selling Party may redact the correspondence to protect the names of and identifying information for Third Parties and products other than the Combination Product, as
applicable. If any Territory Combination Product is implicated in any regulatory inspection findings, the Selling Party shall provide a draft of the pertinent responses to the non-Selling Party for review and comment prior to submission to the
applicable Regulatory Authority. In addition, the non-Selling Party shall have the right to have a representative present during the portion of the inspection that involves the Combination Product.      10.  Employees . The Selling Party s (or its Affiliate s) employees engaged in performing Distribution Activities pursuant to the Agreement shall be
deemed its (or its Affiliate s) own employees (and not the employees of the non-Selling Party or any of its Affiliates) for all purposes, including federal, state and local tax and employment laws.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       E-5   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex F        Initial Commercialization Plan and Initial Commercialization Budget        Territory B Initial Commercialization Budget
- - 2006   2007        The 2006 and 2007 expenses are not intended to be subject to adjustment pursuant to the Financial Agreement.    

Estimated Number of Units (Bottles)   
      
   Commercialization Expenses     (in thousands of
Euros)   

Country    
      
   Total Year 2006 2    
      
   Total Year Forecast 2007 3    
      
   Total Year 2006 2    

Total Year Forecast 2007 3    

Germany   

[  
  *]   
 
    United Kingdom   1    (and
Ireland)   

[  
  *]   
 
    Spain   

Italy   

France   

EU Headquarters   
      
  N/A  
      
  N/A  
      
  [  
  *]  
     
  [  
  *]   

Total   

[  
  *]  
     
  [  
  *]   

2      
    Actual Expenses 2006 as approved and reflected in the Interim Commercialization Agreement.      

3      
    Total Spend of  [ * ]  is in line with JEC approved Latest Estimate.            
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       F-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Territory B Initial Commercialization Plan and Budget - 2008       The number of Details to be performed for Calendar Year 2008 for each country in Territory B shall be as set forth in Annex J,  provided , that the numbers set forth
therein for the first 12-month period shall be adjusted to account for the date on which Launch occurred in the applicable country (e.g., in the event a country were to Launch at the commencement of the third Calendar Quarter of 2008, then the
minimum number of Details for such country for 2008 would be fifty percent (50%) of the minimum number of Details specified in Annex J for the first twelve (12) month period for such country).       
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       F-2   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          

[ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       F-3   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex G        Gilead Licensed Trademarks        
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       G-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          

[ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       G-2   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex H        BMS Licensed Trademarks        
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       H-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex I        Voluntary Termination Compensation Formula       Capitalized terms used in this Annex and not defined herein shall have
the meaning set forth in the agreement to which this Annex is attached.        Net Sales   shall have the meaning set forth in the Financial
Agreement.        Net Selling Price   shall have the meaning set forth in the Financial Agreement.        Territory-Wide Percentage   shall mean the BMS Territory-Wide Percentage or the Gilead Territory-Wide Percentage, as the case may be.      1. The Continuing Party shall pay to the Terminating Party with respect to the period from the effective date of such termination through the third anniversary thereof
an amount determined pursuant to the following formula (with Net Sales being determined for the applicable yearly period), where such amount shall be calculated and paid in Euros:      Net Sales of the Combination Product in the Territory      multiplied by       [ * ]       multiplied by the following percentages for the following twelve (12)-month periods commencing with the effective date of termination:      Year 1    [ * ]       Year 2    [ * ]       Year 3    [ * ]        [ * ]       2. The Continuing Party shall pay any such amounts within sixty (60) days of the end of the Calendar Quarter in which the
relevant Net Sales were recognized as revenue (as set forth in the definition of Net Sales set forth in the Financial Agreement).      3. For purposes of
calculating any payment pursuant to this Annex I, Net Sales in a currency other than Euros shall be converted into Euros from the applicable currency by the Continuing Party in a manner consistent with its then-current standard worldwide currency
conversion methodology, as consistently applied.         
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       I-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex J        Initial Launch Period Commitments        

Plan/Budget    
      
     Expected Launch Date    
      
   Minimum Financial Commitment     (in thousands)   

Total Minimum Number of Details (Each Party is responsible for 50% of the Details specified for each
country)    

First 12 Months after Launch   
      
   Second 12 Months after Launch   
      
   First 12 Months after Launch   
      
   Second 12 Months after Launch    

France   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

Spain   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

Italy   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

UK   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

Ireland   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

Germany   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

Territory Centralized Expenses   

[ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

Total   

[ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]   
      
   [ * ]    

1      
    In Euros unless otherwise specified.            
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       J-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex K        Forecast Principles and Supporting Data       Capitalized terms used in this Annex and not defined herein shall have the
meaning set forth in the agreement to which this Annex is attached (the  Agreement ). Section references used in this Annex shall refer to Sections in the Agreement except as otherwise provided.      The Parties have agreed that, in order to enable to manage the manufacturing arrangements associated with the supply of Territory Combination Product and, in particular,
applicable production capacity, Forecasts shall be prepared based on Local Demand (as defined in the Agreement).      The determination of Local Demand shall
be based solely on the objective data, information and criteria that would be used by Gilead Sub and BMS to forecast unit demand for the Combination Product in the ordinary course of business to meet the treatment needs of HIV patients within a
country in the Territory or within the Territory, as applicable (  Supporting Data  ). Supporting Data may include, without limitation, the categories of data, information and criteria set out below. This list is non-exhaustive and
the Parties may agree to add further categories of data, information and criteria from time to time.       Supporting Data       The Supporting Data required to establish reasonable forecasted estimates of Local Demand may include the following (to the extent that such data is available):

[ * ]           

[ * ]           

[ * ]           

[ * ]           

[ * ]           

[ * ]           

[ * ]           [ * ]          
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       K-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Annex L        Territory A Countries        Territory A Co-Promote Countries:        

Country    
      
     Selling Party     
 
    Austria   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Belgium   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Denmark   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Finland   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Greece   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Iceland   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Liechtenstein   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Luxembourg   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Netherlands   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Norway   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Portugal   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Sweden   
      
  Gilead Sub   

Switzerland   
      
  Gilead Sub   
     BMS Sole-Promote Countries:        

Country    
      
     Selling Party     
 
    Czech Republic*   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Hungary   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Poland   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Romania*   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   
     Gilead Sole-Promote Countries:        

Country    
      
     Selling Party     
 
    Malta   
      
  Gilead Sub   
       
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       L-1   

C ONFIDENTIAL  T REATMENT  R EQUESTED         U NDER  17 C.F.R.    200.80 (b)(4)  AND  230.406          
    Third Party Distributor Countries:        

Country    
      
     Selling Party/Third Party Distributor     

Bulgaria*   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Cyprus   
      
    Gilead Sub/Third Party Distributor to be     determined
pursuant to Section 5.1    

Estonia*   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Latvia*   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Lithuania*   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Slovak Republic   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   

Slovenia   
      
  To be determined pursuant to Section 5.1   
       [   *   ]            
    [ * ] = C ERTAIN   CONFIDENTIAL   INFORMATION   CONTAINED 
 IN   THIS   DOCUMENT ,  MARKED   BY   BRACKETS ,  HAS   BEEN   OMITTED   AND   FILED 
 SEPARATELY   WITH   THE  S ECURITIES   AND  E XCHANGE  C OMMISSION   PURSUANT   TO  R ULE  24B-2  OF 
 THE  S ECURITIES  E XCHANGE  A CT   OF  1934,  AS   AMENDED .       L-2   

</EX-10.62>

<EX-10.63>
 7
 dex1063.htm
 FORM OF EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT USED UNDER 2004 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

Form of employee stock option agreement used under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.63        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.         STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          RECITALS        A. Optionee is to render valuable
services to the Corporation (or a Related Entity), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s grant of an option to Optionee.      B. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.       NOW, THEREFORE , the Corporation hereby grants an option to Optionee upon the following terms and conditions:      1.   Grant of Option  . The Corporation hereby grants to the person identified on attached Schedule I (the  Optionee )
an option to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan. The date on which this option is granted (the  Grant Date ), the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable under this option (the  Option Shares ), the exercise
price payable per share (the  Exercise Price ), the applicable vesting schedule by which this option shall vest and become exercisable incrementally for the Option Shares (the  Vesting Schedule ) and the date to be used to
measure the maximum term of this option (the  Expiation Date ) are also indicated on attached Schedule I to this Agreement. The option is a non-statutory option under the US federal income tax laws. The remaining terms and conditions
governing this option shall be as set forth in this Agreement.      2.   Option Term  . The term of this option shall
commence on the Grant Date and continue to be in effect until the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date specified in attached Schedule I, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6 below.
     3.   Limited Transferability  .      (a) This option may be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee s lifetime to a Living Trust. The assigned portion may only be
exercised by the Living Trust. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents to be executed by the Optionee and the
Living Trust as the Corporation may deem appropriate.      (b) Except for the limited transferability provided under Paragraph
3(a), this option shall be neither transferable nor assignable by Optionee other than by will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee s death and may be exercised, during Optionee s lifetime, only by Optionee. However, Optionee may
designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option by completing the Corporation s Universal Beneficiary Designation form and filing the completed form with the Corporation s Human Resources Department. Should
Optionee file such Universal Beneficiary Designation form and die while holding this option, then this option shall automatically be transferred to the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the
transferred option subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including (without limitation) the limited time period during which this option may, pursuant to Paragraph 5 below, be exercised following Optionee s death.

4.   Dates of Exercise  . This option shall vest and become exercisable for the
Option Shares in a series of installments in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I. As the option vests and becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate, and the option shall remain
exercisable for the accumulated installments until the last business day prior to the Expiration Date or any sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5 or 6 below.      5.   Cessation of Service  . The option term specified in Paragraph 2 above shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be
outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (a) Except as otherwise
expressly provided in subparagraphs (b) through (f) of this Paragraph 5, should Optionee cease to remain in Continuous Service for any reason while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the
last business day prior to the expiration of the three- (3) month period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and
exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.      (b) In the event Optionee ceases Continuous Service by reason of his or her death while this option is outstanding, then this option may
be exercised, for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service, by (i) the personal representative of Optionee s estate or (ii) the
person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee s death. However, if Optionee dies while holding this option and has an effective beneficiary designation in
effect for this option at the time of his or her death, then the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have the exclusive right to exercise this option following Optionee s death. Any such right to exercise this option shall lapse, and
this option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the close of business on the last business prior to the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the twelve- (12) month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or
(ii) the Expiration Date. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.      (c) Should Optionee cease Continuous Service by reason of Permanent Disability while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have
until the close of business on the last business day prior to the expiration of the twelve- (12) month period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option for any or all of the Option
Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of such cessation of Continuous Service. In no event, however, shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last business day prior to the
Expiration Date.         
   2   

(d) Except as otherwise precluded by Applicable Laws, should (i) Optionee cease
Continuous Service after completion of at least three (3) years of Continuous Service and (ii) the sum of Optionee s attained age and completed years of Continuous Service at the time of such cessation of service equals or exceeds
seventy (70) years, then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the last business day prior to the expiration of the twelve- (12) month period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to
exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of such cessation of Continuous Service. In no event, however, shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of
business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.      (e) The applicable period of post-service exercisability in
effect pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall automatically be extended by an additional period of time equal in duration to any interval within such post-service exercise period during which the exercise of this option or
the immediate sale of the Option Shares acquired under this option cannot be effected in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, but in no event shall such an extension result in the continuation of this option beyond the close
of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.      (f) Should Optionee s Continuous Service be
terminated for Cause, or should Optionee engage in any other conduct, while in Continuous Service or following cessation of Continuous Service, that is materially detrimental to the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), as
determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator, then this option, whether or not vested and exercisable at the time, shall terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.      (g) During the limited period of post-service exercisability provided under this Paragraph 5, this option may not be exercised in the
aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares for which this option is at the time vested and exercisable. Except to the extent (if any) specifically authorized by the Administrator pursuant to an express written agreement with the Optionee,
this option shall not vest or become exercisable for any additional Option Shares, whether pursuant to the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 below, following
Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date, this option shall terminate and cease to be
outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.      6.   Special
Acceleration of Option  .      (a) This option, to the extent outstanding at the time of an actual Change in Control but
not otherwise fully exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may
be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock. However, this option shall   not   become exercisable on such an accelerated basis if and to the extent: (i) this  
       
   3   

option is to be assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or is otherwise to continue in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the
Change in Control transaction, (ii) this option is to be replaced with an economically-equivalent substitute award or (iii) this option is to be replaced with a cash retention program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread
existing at the time of the Change in Control on any Option Shares for which this option is not otherwise at that time vested and exercisable (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for
such shares) and provides for subsequent payout of that spread in accordance with the same (or more favorable) Vesting Schedule for those Option Shares as set forth in attached Schedule I.      (b) Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to
the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.      (c) If this option is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect, then this option shall be
appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to this option would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had
those shares actually been outstanding at the time. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation s outstanding
Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of this option but subject to the Administrator s
approval, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control, provided such common stock is readily tradable on an established
U.S. securities exchange or market.      (d) If this option is assumed or otherwise continued in effect in connection with a
Change in Control or replaced with an economically-equivalent award or a cash retention program in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) above, then:      (i) the option (or such economically equivalent award) shall vest and become immediately exercisable for all of the Option Shares or other securities at the time subject to the option (or such award) and may be
exercised for any or all of those Option Shares or other securities as fully vested shares or securities, or      (ii) the
balance credited to Optionee under any cash retention program established pursuant to Paragraph 6(a) shall immediately be paid to Optionee in a lump sum, subject to the Corporation s collection of all applicable Withholding Taxes;   
     
   4   

if, within the period beginning with the execution date of the definitive agreement for the Change in
Control transaction and ending with the earlier of (i) the termination of that definitive agreement without the consummation of such Change in Control or (ii) the expiration of the Applicable Acceleration Period following the consummation
of such Change in Control, Optionee s Continuous Service terminates due to an involuntary termination (other than for death or Permanent Disability) without Cause or a voluntary termination by Optionee due to Constructive Termination.
     (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise
change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      7.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off
transaction, or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, or should the value of outstanding shares of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off
transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, then equitable and proportional adjustments shall be made by the Administrator to (i) the total number and/or
class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price. The adjustments shall be made in such manner as the Administrator deems appropriate in order to reflect such change and thereby prevent the dilution or enlargement of
benefits hereunder, and those adjustments shall be final, binding and conclusive upon Optionee and any other person or persons having an interest in the option. In the event of any Change in Control transaction, the adjustment provisions of
Paragraph 6(c) above shall be controlling.      8.   Stockholder Rights  . The holder of this option shall not have
any stockholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.      9.   Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this option is at the time
exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:      (i) Execute
and deliver to the Corporation a Notice of Exercise as to the Option Shares for which the option is exercised or comply with such other procedures as the Corporation may establish for notifying the Corporation, either directly or through an on-line
internet transaction with a brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect such option exercises, of the exercise of this option for one or more Option Shares. Copies of the Notice of Exercise may be obtained from the Corporation s
intranet at http://gnet/finance/doc/noe.doc.      (ii) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased shares in one or more
of the following forms:      (A) cash or check made payable to the Corporation; or         
   5   

(B) through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any
other person or persons exercising the option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable instructions (i) to a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the
Corporation s pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate
Exercise Price payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable Withholding Taxes and (ii) to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm on such settlement date in order to complete
the sale.      Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure is utilized in connection with the option exercise,
payment of the Exercise Price must accompany the Notice of Exercise (or other notification procedure) delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.      (iii) Furnish to the Corporation appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the option (if other than Optionee) have
the right to exercise this option.      (iv) Make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation (or Parent or Subsidiary
employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all applicable Withholding Taxes.      (b) As soon as practical after
the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares (either in paper or electronic form), with the appropriate legends
affixed thereto.      (c) In no event may this option be exercised for any fractional shares.      10.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation
and Optionee with all Applicable Laws relating thereto.      (b) The inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any
regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the
Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   6   

11.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in
Paragraphs 3 and 6 above, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of
Optionee s estate and any beneficiaries of this option designated by Optionee.      12.   Notices  . Any notice
required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in
writing and addressed to Optionee at the most current address then indicated for Optionee on the Corporation s employee records or shall be delivered electronically to Optionee through the Corporation s electronic mail system or through an
on-line brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect option exercises through the internet. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or delivery through the Corporation s electronic mail system or upon deposit in
the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.      13.   Construction  . This
Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the
Plan, the terms of the Plan shall be controlling. All decisions of the Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this option.
     14.   Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the
laws of the State of California without resort to California s conflict-of-laws rules.      15.   Excess
Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of shares of Common Stock which may without stockholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this option shall be void with respect to those
excess shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. In no event shall the option be exercisable
with respect to any of the excess Option Shares unless and until such stockholder approval is obtained.      16.   Leaves of
Absence  . The following provisions shall govern leaves of absence, except to the extent the application of such provisions to Optionee would contravene Applicable Laws.      (a) For purposes of this Agreement, Optionee s Continuous Service shall not be deemed to cease during any period for which Optionee
is on a military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation. However, Optionee shall not receive any Continuous Service credit, for purposes of vesting in this option and the Option Shares pursuant to the Vesting Schedule
set forth in attached Schedule I, for any period of such leave of absence, except to the extent otherwise required by law or pursuant to the following policy:       

Optionee shall receive Continuous Service credit for such vesting purposes for (i) the first three (3) months of an approved personal leave of absence or
(ii) the first seven (7) months of any bona fide leave of absence (other than an approved personal leave), but in no event beyond the expiration date of such leave of absence.            
   7   

(b) In no event shall Optionee be deemed to remain in Continuous Service at any time
after the earlier of (i) the expiration date of his or her leave of absence, unless Optionee returns to active Continuous Service on or before that date, or (ii) the date Optionee s Continuous Service actually terminates by reason of
his or her voluntary or involuntary termination or by reason of his or her death or disability.      17.   Employment at
Will  . Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to remain in Employee status for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any
Related Entity employing Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Employee status at any time for any reason, with or without Cause.      18.   Plan Prospectus  . The official prospectus for the Plan is available on the Corporation s intranet at:
 http://gnet/ HR/stocks_new.asp . Optionee may also obtain a printed copy of the prospectus by contacting Stock Administration either through the internet at  stockadministration@gilead.com  or by telephoning 650-522-5517.      19.   Optionee Acceptance  . Optionee must accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement either electronically through the
electronic acceptance procedure established by the Corporation or through a written acceptance delivered to the Corporation in a form satisfactory to the Corporation. In no event shall this option be exercised in the absence of such acceptance.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Gilead Sciences, Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly-authorized officer on
the day and year first indicated above.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

8   

APPENDIX       The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:      A.   Administrator   shall
mean the Compensation Committee of the Board (or a subcommittee thereof) acting in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.      B.
  Agreement   shall mean this Stock Option Agreement.      C.   Applicable Acceleration Period   shall have the meaning
assigned to such term in Section 2(b) of the Plan and shall be determined on the basis of Optionee s status on the Grant Date.      D.   Applicable Laws   shall mean the legal requirements related to the Plan and the option under applicable provisions of the federal securities laws, state corporate and state securities laws, the Code, the rules of any
applicable Stock Exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, and the rules of any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to options granted to residents therein.      E.   Board   shall mean the Corporation s Board of Directors.      F.   Cause   shall,
for purposes of Paragraph 5 of the Agreement, mean the termination of Optionee s Continuous Service as a result of Optionee s (i) performance of any act, or failure to perform any act, in bad faith and to the detriment of the
Corporation or a Related Entity; (ii) dishonesty, intentional misconduct, material violation of any applicable Corporation or Related Entity policy, or material breach of any agreement with the Corporation or a Related Entity; or
(iii) commission of a crime involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or physical or emotional harm to any person. However, for purposes of Paragraph 6(d) of the Agreement,   Cause   shall mean the termination of Optionee s
Continuous Service as a result of Optionee s (a) conviction of, a guilty plea with respect to, or a plea of  nolo contendere  to, a charge that Optionee has committed a felony under the laws of the United States or of any State or a
crime involving moral turpitude, including (without limitation) fraud, theft, embezzlement or any crime that results in or is intended to result in personal enrichment to Optionee at the expense of the Corporation or a Related Entity;
(b) material breach of any agreement entered into between Optionee and the Corporation or a Related Entity that impairs the Corporation s or the Related Entity s interest therein; (c) willful misconduct, significant failure to
perform his or her duties or gross neglect of his or her duties; or (d) engagement in any activity that constitutes a material conflict of interest with the Corporation or a Related Entity.      G.   Change in Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
     (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation s stockholders,  unless 
securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same
proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction;         
   A-1   

(ii) a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the
Corporation s assets;      (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any
person or any group of persons comprising a  group  within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly
controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly (whether as a result of a single acquisition or by reason of one or more acquisitions within the twelve- (12) month period ending with
the most recent acquisition) the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined
voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related
transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation s existing stockholders; or      (iv) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the
Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (a) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (b) have been elected or
nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) above who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.      In no event, however, shall a Change in Control be deemed to occur upon a merger, consolidation or other reorganization effected primarily to change the State of the
Corporation s incorporation or to create a holding company structure pursuant to which the Corporation becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of an entity whose outstanding voting securities immediately after its formation are beneficially owned,
directly or indirectly, and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to the formation of such entity.      H.   Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      I.   Common Stock   shall mean shares of the Corporation s common stock.         
   A-2   

J.   Constructive Termination   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 11(d) of the Plan.      K.   Consultant   shall mean any person, including an advisor, who is compensated by the
Corporation or any Related Entity for services performed as a non-employee consultant;   provided, however,   that the term  Consultant  shall not include non-employee Directors serving in their capacity as Board members. The
term  Consultant  shall include a member of the board of directors of a Related Entity.      L.   Continuous Service  
shall mean the performance of services for the Corporation or a Related Entity (whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, Director or Consultant. For purposes of this Agreement, Optionee shall be
deemed to cease Continuous Service immediately upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) Optionee no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Related Entity or (ii) the entity
for which Optionee is performing such services ceases to remain a Related Entity of the Corporation, even though Optionee may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. In jurisdictions requiring notice in advance of an effective
termination of Optionee s service as an Employee, Director or Consultant, Continuous Service shall be deemed terminated upon the actual cessation of such service to the Corporation or a Related Entity notwithstanding any required notice period
that must be fulfilled before Optionee s termination as an Employee, Director or Consultant can be effective under Applicable Laws.      M.   Corporation   shall mean Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of Gilead Sciences, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt
the Plan.      N.   Director   shall mean a member of the Board.      O.   Employee   shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), subject to the control and direction
of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.      P.   Exercise Date   shall
mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 9 of the Agreement.      Q.   Exercise
Price   shall mean the exercise price payable per Option Share as specified in attached Schedule I.      R.   Expiration Date  
shall mean the date specified on attached Schedule I for measuring the maximum term for which the option may remain outstanding.      S.
  Fair Market Value   per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be the closing price per share of Common Stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported), as quoted on the Stock Exchange serving as the primary trading
market for the Common Stock, on the last market trading day prior to the date of determination (or, if no closing price or closing bid was reported on that date, as applicable, on the last trading date such closing price or closing bid was
reported), as reported in  The Wall Street Journal  or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable.         
   A-3   

T.   Grant Date   shall mean the date on which the option is granted, as specified on attached
Schedule I.      U.   Living Trust   shall mean a revocable living trust established by Optionee or by Optionee and his or her spouse
of which Optionee is the sole trustee (or sole co-trustee with his or her spouse) and sole beneficiary (or sole co-beneficiary with his or her spouse) during Optionee s lifetime.      V.   1934 Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.      W.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.      X.   Notice of Exercise   shall mean the notice of option exercise in the form authorized by the Corporation.      Y.   Option Shares   shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option as specified in attached Schedule I.      Z.   Optionee   shall mean the person identified in attached Schedule I to whom the option is granted pursuant to the Agreement.      AA.   Parent   shall mean a  parent corporation,  whether now existing or hereafter established, as defined in Section 424(e) of
the Code.      BB.   Permanent Disability   shall mean the inability of Optionee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.      CC.   Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.      DD.   Related Entity   shall mean (i) any Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation and (ii) any corporation in an unbroken chain of
corporations beginning with the Corporation and ending with the corporation in the chain for which Optionee provides services as an Employee, Director or Consultant, provided each corporation in such chain owns securities representing at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total outstanding voting power of the outstanding securities of another corporation or entity in such chain and there is a legitimate non-tax business purpose for making this option grant to Optionee.         
   A-4   

EE.   Stock Exchange   shall mean the American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global or Global
Select Market or the New York Stock Exchange.      FF.   Subsidiary   shall mean a  subsidiary corporation,  whether now
existing or hereafter established, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.      GG.   Vesting Schedule   shall mean the
schedule set forth in attached Schedule I, pursuant to which the option is to vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in a series of installments over Optionee s period of Continuous Service.      HH.   Withholding Taxes   shall mean the federal, state, local and/or foreign income taxes and the employee portion of the federal, state,
local and/or foreign employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in connection with the exercise of the option.         
   A-5   

SCHEDULE I        OPTION GRANT SPECIFICS        Name of Optionee:  FIRST_NAME   MIDDLE_NAME 
 LAST_NAME         Grant Date:  DATE   MONTH   YEAR         Total Number of Option Shares:  SHARES_GRANTED         Exercise Price:  OPTION_PRICE         Vesting Schedule:        

Shares    
      
     Vest Type    
      
     Full Vest Date    
      
     Expiration Date     
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_1    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_1   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_1   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_1    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_2    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_2   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_2   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_2    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_3    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_3   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_3   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_3    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_4    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_4   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_4   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_4    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_5    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_5   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_5   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_5    
    The option will vest and become exercisable for the number of Option Shares noted on the first
line above on the first anniversary of the Grant Date, as noted by the date listed under  Full Vest Date.  With respect to each subsequent line, the option will vest and become exercisable for the listed Option Shares in equal quarterly
installments, beginning one quarter after the Full Vest Date on the previous line and ending on the corresponding Full Vest Date for the listed Option Shares at issue. Fractional shares will be rounded down to the nearest whole number.   

</EX-10.63>

<EX-10.64>
 8
 dex1064.htm
 FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPT AGRMNT USED UNDER 2004 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

Form of non-employee director opt agrmnt used under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.64         NON-EMPLOYEE BOARD MEMBER INITIAL GRANT         GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.         STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          RECITALS   
     A. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Corporation as a non-employee Board member, and this Agreement is executed pursuant to,
and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s grant of an option to Optionee in his or her capacity as a non-employee Board member.      B. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.       NOW, THEREFORE,  the Corporation hereby grants an option to Optionee upon the following terms and conditions:      1.   Grant of Option  . The Corporation hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase the Option Shares
under the Plan. The number of Option Shares purchasable under the option, the applicable vesting schedule for the option, the exercise price per share and the remaining terms and conditions governing the option shall be as set forth in this
Agreement.       AWARD SUMMARY        

Optionee:   
      
  __________________________________   

Grant Date:   
      
  ______________________, 200___   

Exercise Price:   
      
  $_____ per share   

Number of Option Shares:   
      
  ______________ shares of Common Stock   

Vesting Commencement Date:   
      
  _____________________, 20____   

Expiration Date:   
      
  ______________________, 20____*   

Type of Option:   
      
  Non-Statutory Stock Option   

Exercise Schedule:   
      
  The option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in two (2) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of Continuous Service over the
two- (2) year period measured from the Vesting Commencement Date.   

*  
  The option will in no event remain exercisable beyond the close of business on the last business day immediately prior to the Expiration Date.     

2.   Option Term .  The term of this option shall commence on the Grant Date
and continue to be in effect until the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6 below.      3.   Limited Transferability  . The following provisions shall govern the transferability of this option:      (a) This option may be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee s lifetime to one or more members of Optionee s Immediate
Family or to a trust established for Optionee and/or one or more Immediate Family members, provided such assignment constitutes a gratuitous transfer by Optionee for which no consideration is directly or indirectly received. The assigned portion may
only be exercised by the person who acquires a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and
shall be set forth in such documents to be executed by Optionee and the assignee as the Corporation may deem appropriate.      (b) Optionee may also designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option. Should Optionee die while holding this option, then the option shall be, in accordance with such designation, automatically transferred
to such beneficiary or beneficiaries upon Optionee s death. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred option subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including (without limitation) the limited time period
during which this option may, pursuant to Paragraph 5 below, be exercised following Optionee s death.      4.   Dates
of Exercise  . This option shall become exercisable for the Option Shares in a series of installments over Optionee s period of Continuous Service in accordance with the Exercise Schedule set forth in Paragraph 1 above. As the option
becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate, and the option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until (i) the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date or
(ii) the sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5 or 6 below. Optionee shall be deemed to remain in Continuous Service, for purposes of this Paragraph 4 and Paragraph 5 below, for so long as Optionee continues to serve the
Corporation as a Director Emeritus immediately following his or her cessation of service as a Board member without an intervening break in Continuous Service.      5.   Cessation of Service  . The option term specified in Paragraph 2 above shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be
outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (a) Except as otherwise
expressly provided in subparagraphs (b) through (d) of this Paragraph 5, should Optionee cease to remain in Continuous Service for any reason while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the
last business day prior to the expiration of the three- (3) year period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option,
but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.         
   2   

(b) Should Optionee s Continuous Service terminate by reason of his or her death
while this option is outstanding, then this option may be exercised, for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of such termination of Continuous Service, by (i) the personal representative
of Optionee s estate, (ii) the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee s death or (iii) the person or persons to whom this option is
transferred during Optionee s lifetime pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3(a) above, as the case may be. However, if Optionee dies while holding this option and has an effective beneficiary designation in effect for this option
at the time of his or her death, then the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have the exclusive right to exercise this option following Optionee s death. Any such right to exercise this option shall lapse, and this option shall cease
to be outstanding, upon the close of business on the last business day prior to the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the three- (3) year period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (ii) the Expiration Date.
Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.      (c) The applicable period of post-service exercisability in effect pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall
automatically be extended by an additional period of time equal in duration to any interval within such post-service exercise period during which the exercise of this option or the immediate sale of the Option Shares acquired under this option
cannot be effected in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, but in no event shall such an extension result in the continuation of this option beyond the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.
     (d) Should Optionee s Continuous Service be terminated for Cause, or should Optionee engage in any other conduct,
while in such service or following cessation of Continuous Service, that is materially detrimental to the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), as determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator, then this option
shall terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.      (e) During the limited period of post-service exercisability under
this Paragraph 5, this option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares for which this option is at the time vested and exercisable. Except to the extent (if any) specifically authorized by the Administrator
pursuant to an express written agreement with Optionee, this option shall not vest or become exercisable for any additional Option Shares, whether pursuant to the normal Exercise Schedule specified in Paragraph 1 above or the special vesting
acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 below, following Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration
Date, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.         
   3   

6.   Change in Control  .      (a) Should Optionee continue to serve as a Board member until the effective date of a Change in Control, then this option, to the extent
outstanding at the time but not otherwise fully exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time
subject to this option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock.      (b) Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in effect
pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.      (c) If this option is assumed in connection with a Change in
Control or otherwise continued in effect, then this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to this option would
have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at the time. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. To
the extent the actual holders of the Corporation s outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or
continuation of this option but subject to the Administrator s approval, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in
Control, provided such common stock is readily tradable on an established U.S. securities exchange or market.      (d) This
Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets.      7.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason
of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction, or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, or
should the value of outstanding shares of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, then
equitable and proportional adjustments shall be made by the Administrator to (i) the total number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price. The adjustments shall be made in such manner as the
Administrator deems appropriate in order to reflect such change and thereby prevent the dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder, and those adjustments shall be final, binding and conclusive upon Optionee and any other person or persons having
an interest in the option. In the event of any Change in Control transaction, the adjustment provisions of Paragraph 6(c) above shall be controlling.      8.   Stockholder Rights  . The holder of this option shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and
become a holder of record of the purchased shares.         
   4   

9.   Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this option with respect to all or any portion of the Option Shares for which this option is at the time vested
and exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:      (i)
Execute and deliver to the Corporation a Notice of Exercise as to the Option Shares for which the option is exercised or comply with such other procedures as the Corporation may establish for notifying the Corporation, either directly or through an
on-line internet transaction with a brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect option exercises, of the exercise of this option for one or more Option Shares. The applicable Notice of Exercise may be obtained through the internet at
 stockadministration@gilead.com  or by telephoning Stock Administration at 650-522-5517.      (ii) Pay the aggregate
Exercise Price for the purchased shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check made payable to the
Corporation;      (B) shares of Common Stock (whether delivered in the form of actual stock certificates or through attestation
of ownership in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation) held for the requisite period (if any) necessary to avoid any resulting charge to the Corporation s earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value
on the Exercise Date; or      (C) through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other
person or persons exercising the option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable instructions (i) to a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the
Corporation s pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate
Exercise Price payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable Withholding Taxes and (ii) to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm on such settlement date in order to complete
the sale.      Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure is utilized in connection with the option exercise,
payment of the Exercise Price must accompany the Notice of Exercise (or other notification procedure) delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.       
  
   5   

(iii) Furnish to the Corporation appropriate documentation that the person or persons
exercising the option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this option.      (iv) Make appropriate arrangements
with the Corporation (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all applicable Withholding Taxes.      (b) As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares (either
in paper or electronic form), with the appropriate legends affixed thereto.      (c) In no event may this option be exercised
for any fractional shares.      10.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation
and Optionee with all Applicable Laws relating thereto.      (b) The inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any
regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the
Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.      11.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6 above, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Corporation and its
successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate and any beneficiaries of this option designated by Optionee.      12.   Notices  . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in
writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in writing and addressed to Optionee at the most current address then indicated for Optionee on the
Corporation s records or shall be delivered electronically to Optionee through the Corporation s electronic mail system or through an on-line brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect option exercises through the internet. All
notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or electronic delivery as specified above or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.      13.   Construction  . This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all
respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall be controlling. All decisions of the Administrator with respect to
any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this option.         
   6   

14.   Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to California s conflict-of-laws rules.      15.   Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of shares of Common Stock which may without stockholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this option shall be
void with respect to those excess shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. In no event shall
the option be exercisable with respect to any of the excess Option Shares unless and until such stockholder approval is obtained.      16.   No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Corporation or its stockholders to remove Optionee from the Board at
any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.      17.   Plan Prospectus  . The official prospectus
for the Plan is attached if this option is the first option made to Optionee under the October 2007 restatement of the Plan. Optionee may obtain an additional printed copy of the prospectus by contacting Stock Administration through the internet at
 stockadministration@gilead.com  or by telephoning 650-522-5517.      18.   Optionee Acceptance  . Optionee must
accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement either electronically through the electronic acceptance procedure established by the Corporation or through a written acceptance delivered to the Corporation in a form satisfactory to the
Corporation. In no event shall this option be exercised in the absence of such acceptance.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Gilead Sciences,
Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly-authorized officer on the day and year first indicated above.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

7   

APPENDIX       The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:      A.   Administrator   shall
mean the Compensation Committee of the Board (or any subcommittee thereof) in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.      B.
  Agreement   shall mean this Stock Option Agreement.      C.   Applicable Laws   shall mean the legal requirements related
to the Plan and the option under applicable provisions of the federal securities laws, state corporate and state securities laws, the Code, the rules of any applicable Stock Exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, and the rules of
any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to options granted to residents therein.      D.   Board   shall mean the Corporation s
Board of Directors.      E.   Cause   shall mean the termination of Optionee s Continuous Service as a result of Optionee s
(i) performance of any act, or failure to perform any act, in bad faith and to the detriment of the Corporation; (ii) dishonesty, intentional misconduct, material breach of any fiduciary duty owed to the Corporation; or
(iii) commission of a crime involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or physical or emotional harm to any person.      F.   Change in
Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:      (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation s stockholders,  unless  securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the
successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to
such transaction;      (ii) a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets;
     (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons
comprising a  group  within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is
under common control with the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly (whether as a result of a single acquisition or by reason of one or more acquisitions within the twelve- (12) month period ending with the most recent acquisition) the
beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or  
       
   A-1   

convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s
outstanding securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves
a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation s existing stockholders; or      (iv) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board
membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (a) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (b) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority
of the Board members described in clause (A) above who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.      In no event,
however, shall a Change in Control be deemed to occur upon a merger, consolidation or other reorganization effected primarily to change the State of the Corporation s incorporation or to create a holding company structure pursuant to which the
Corporation becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of an entity whose outstanding voting securities immediately after its formation are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially
owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to the formation of such entity.      G.   Code   shall
mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      H.   Common Stock   shall mean shares of the Corporation s common
stock.      I.   Consultant   shall mean any person, including an advisor, who is compensated by the Corporation or any Related
Entity for services performed as a non-employee consultant;   provided, however,   that the term  Consultant  shall not include non-employee Directors serving in their capacity as Board members. The term  Consultant 
shall include (i) a former Board member during his or her period of service as Director Emeritus immediately following his or her cessation of service as a Board member, without an intervening break in Continuous Service, or (ii) an
individual serving as a member of the board of directors of a Related Entity.      J.   Continuous Service   shall mean the
performance of services for the Corporation or a Related Entity (whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, Director or Consultant. For purposes of this Agreement, Optionee shall be deemed to cease
Continuous Service immediately upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) Optionee no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Related Entity or (ii) the entity for which
Optionee is performing such services ceases to remain a Related Entity of the Corporation, even though Optionee may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity.         
   A-2   

K.   Corporation   shall mean Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor
corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of Gilead Sciences, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.      L.   Director   shall mean a member of the Board.      M.   Domestic Partner   shall mean a person who meets and
continues to meet all of the criteria detailed in the Gilead Sciences Affidavit of Domestic Partnership when the Domestic Partnership has been internally registered with the Corporation by filing with the Corporation an original, properly completed,
notarized Gilead Sciences Affidavit of Domestic Partnership.      N.   Employee   shall mean an individual who is in the employ of
the Corporation (or any Related Entity), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.      O.   Exercise Date   shall mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 9 of the Agreement.
     P.   Exercise Price   shall mean the exercise price per Option Share as specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.   
  Q.   Exercise Schedule   shall mean the schedule set forth in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement, pursuant to which the option is to vest and
become exercisable for the Option Shares in two (2) successive equal annual installments over Optionee s period of Continuous Service.      R.   Expiration Date   shall mean the date specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement for measuring the maximum term for which the option may remain outstanding.      S.   Fair Market Value   per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be the closing price per share of Common Stock (or the closing
bid, if no sales were reported), as quoted on the Stock Exchange serving as the primary trading market for the Common Stock, on the last market trading day prior to the date of determination (or, if no closing price or closing bid was reported on
that date, as applicable, on the last trading date such closing price or closing bid was reported), as reported in  The Wall Street Journal  or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable.      T.   Grant Date   shall mean the date of grant of the option as specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.      U.   Immediate Family   shall mean, with respect to Optionee, any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former
spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law including adoptive relationships, Domestic Partner, a trust in which such persons (or person) have more than fifty percent
(50%) of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which such persons (or person) control the management of such entity s assets, or any other entity in which such persons (or person) own more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting
interests.         
   A-3   

V.   1934 Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
     W.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.   
  X.   Notice of Exercise   shall mean the notice of option exercise in the form prescribed by the Corporation.      Y.   Option Shares   shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option as specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.
     Z.   Optionee   shall mean the person to whom the option is granted pursuant to the Agreement.      AA.   Parent   shall mean a  parent corporation,  whether now or hereafter established, as defined in Section 424(e) of the
Code.      BB.   Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.      CC.   Related Entity   shall mean (i) any Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation and (ii) any corporation in an unbroken chain of
corporations beginning with the Corporation and ending with the corporation in the chain for which Optionee provides services as an Employee, Director or Consultant, provided each corporation in such chain owns securities representing at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total outstanding voting power of the outstanding securities of another corporation or entity in such chain and there is a legitimate non-tax business purpose for making this option grant to Optionee.      DD.   Stock Exchange   shall mean the American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global or Global Select Market or the New York Stock Exchange.
     EE.   Subsidiary   shall mean a  subsidiary corporation,  whether now or hereafter established, as defined in
Section 424(f) of the Code.      FF.   Withholding Taxes   shall mean any federal, state and local taxes required to be withheld
by the Corporation in connection with the exercise of the option.         
   A-4   

</EX-10.64>

<EX-10.65>
 9
 dex1065.htm
 FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AGREEMENT USED UNDER 2004 STOCK OPTION PLAN

Form of non-employee director option agreement used under 2004 Stock Option Plan 

Exhibit 10.65         NON-EMPLOYEE BOARD MEMBER ANNUAL GRANT         GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.         STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          RECITALS   
     A. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Corporation as a non-employee Board member, and this Agreement is executed pursuant to,
and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s grant of an option to Optionee in his or her capacity as a non-employee Board member.      B. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.       NOW, THEREFORE,  the Corporation hereby grants an option to Optionee upon the following terms and conditions:       1.  Grant of Option .  The Corporation hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase the Option Shares
under the Plan. The number of Option Shares purchasable under the option, the applicable vesting schedule for the option, the exercise price per share and the remaining terms and conditions governing the option shall be as set forth in this
Agreement.       AWARD SUMMARY        

Optionee:   
      
  _______________________________________   

Grant Date:   
      
  ______________________, 200___   

Exercise Price:   
      
  $_____ per share   

Number of Option Shares:   
      
  ______________ shares of Common Stock   

Expiration Date:   
      
  ______________________, 20____*   

Type of Option:   
      
  Non-Statutory Stock Option   

Exercise Schedule:   
      
  The option is fully-vested and immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares.   

*  
  The option will in no event remain exercisable beyond the close of business on the last business day immediately prior to the Expiration Date.           
   - 1 -   

2.   Option Term  . The term of this option shall commence on the Grant Date
and continue to be in effect until the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6 below.      3.   Limited Transferability  . The following provisions shall govern the transferability of this option:      (a) This option may be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee s lifetime to one or more members of Optionee s Immediate
Family or to a trust established for the Optionee and/or one or more Immediate Family members, provided such assignment constitutes a gratuitous transfer by the Optionee for which no consideration is directly or indirectly received. The assigned
portion may only be exercised by the person who acquires a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such
assignment and shall be set forth in such documents to be executed by the Optionee and the assignee as the Corporation may deem appropriate.      (b) Optionee may also designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option. Should Optionee die while holding this option, then the option shall be, in accordance with such designation,
automatically transferred to such beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the Optionee s death. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred option subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including (without
limitation) the limited time period during which this option may, pursuant to Paragraph 5 below, be exercised following Optionee s death.      4.   Dates of Exercise  . This option is immediately exercisable for all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares at any time
prior to (i) the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date or (ii) the sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5 or 6 below.      5.   Cessation of Service  . The option term specified in Paragraph 2 above shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be
outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (a) Except as otherwise
expressly provided in subparagraphs (b) through (e) of this Paragraph 5, should Optionee cease to remain in Continuous Service for any reason while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the
last business day prior to the expiration of the three- (3) year period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option,
but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.      (b) For purposes of this Paragraph 5, Optionee shall be deemed to remain in Continuous Service for so long as Optionee continues to serve the Corporation as a Director Emeritus immediately following his or her
cessation of service as a Board member without an intervening break in Continuous Service.         
   - 2 -   

(c) Should Optionee s Continuous Service terminate by reason of his or her death
while this option is outstanding, then this option may be exercised for any or all of the Option Shares subject to this option at the time of such termination of Continuous Service by (i) the personal representative of Optionee s estate,
(ii) the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee s death or (iii) the person or persons to whom this option is transferred during
Optionee s lifetime pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3(a) above, as the case may be. However, if Optionee dies while holding this option and has an effective beneficiary designation in effect for this option at the time of his
or her death, then the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have the exclusive right to exercise this option following Optionee s death. Any such right to exercise this option shall lapse, and this option shall cease to be outstanding,
upon the close of business on the last business day prior to the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the three- (3) year period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (ii) the Expiration Date. Upon the
expiration of such limited exercise period, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.      (d) The applicable period of post-service exercisability in effect pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall
automatically be extended by an additional period of time equal in duration to any interval within such post-service exercise period during which the exercise of this option or the immediate sale of the Option Shares acquired under this option
cannot be effected in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, but in no event shall such an extension result in the continuation of this option beyond the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.
     (e) Should Optionee s Continuous Service be terminated for Cause, or should Optionee engage in any other conduct,
while in such service or following cessation of Continuous Service, that is materially detrimental to the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), as determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator, then this option
shall terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.      6.   Change in Control  .      (a) Immediately following the consummation of a Change in Control transaction, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.      (b) If this option is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect, then this option shall be
appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to this option would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had
those shares actually been outstanding at the time. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation s outstanding
Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of this option but subject to the Administrator s
approval, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control, provided such common stock is readily tradable on an established
U.S. securities exchange or market.         
   - 3 -   

(c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust,
reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      7.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend,
recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction, or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, or should the value of outstanding shares
of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, then equitable and proportional adjustments shall
be made by the Administrator to (i) the total number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price. The adjustments shall be made in such manner as the Administrator deems appropriate in order to reflect
such change and thereby prevent the dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder, and those adjustments shall be final, binding and conclusive upon Optionee and any other person or persons having an interest in the option. In the event of any
Change in Control transaction, the adjustment provisions of Paragraph 6(c) above shall be controlling.      8.   Stockholder
Rights  . The holder of this option shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.
     9.   Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this option with respect to all or any portion of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option, Optionee
(or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:      (i) Execute and deliver to the
Corporation a Notice of Exercise as to the Option Shares for which the option is exercised or comply with such other procedures as the Corporation may establish for notifying the Corporation, either directly or through an on-line internet
transaction with a brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect option exercises, of the exercise of this option for one or more Option Shares. The applicable Notice of Exercise may be obtained through the internet at
 stockadministration@gilead.com  or by telephoning Stock Administration at 650-522-5517.         
   - 4 -   

(ii) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased shares in one or more of the
following forms:      (A) cash or check made payable to the Corporation; or      (B) through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option)
shall concurrently provide irrevocable instructions (i) to a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the Corporation s pre-clearance/pre-notification
policies) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased shares plus all
applicable Withholding Taxes and (ii) to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm on such settlement date in order to complete the sale.      Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure is utilized in connection with the option exercise, payment of the Exercise Price
must accompany the Notice of Exercise (or other notification procedure) delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.      (iii) Furnish to the Corporation appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this option.      (iv) Make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of
all applicable Withholding Taxes.      (b) As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on
behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares (either in paper or electronic form), with the appropriate legends affixed thereto.      (c) In no event may this option be exercised for any fractional shares.      10.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation
and Optionee with all Applicable Laws relating thereto.      (b) The inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any
regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the
Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   - 5 -   

11.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in
Paragraphs 3 and 6 above, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of
Optionee s estate and any beneficiaries of this option designated by Optionee.      12.   Notices  . Any notice
required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in
writing and addressed to Optionee at the most current address then indicated for Optionee on the Corporation s records or shall be delivered electronically to Optionee through the Corporation s electronic mail system or through an on-line
brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect option exercises through the internet. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or electronic delivery as specified above or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid
and properly addressed to the party to be notified.      13.   Construction  . This Agreement and the option evidenced
hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall be
controlling. All decisions of the Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this option.      14.   Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of California without resort to California s conflict-of-laws rules.      15.   Excess Shares  . If the
Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of shares of Common Stock which may without stockholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless
stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. In no event shall the option be exercisable with respect to any of
the excess Option Shares unless and until such stockholder approval is obtained.      16.   No Impairment of Rights  .
This Agreement shall not in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Corporation or its stockholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law.      17.   Plan Prospectus  . The official prospectus for the Plan is attached if this option is the
first option made to Optionee under the October 2007 restatement of the Plan. Optionee may obtain an additional printed copy of the prospectus by contacting Stock Administration through the internet at  stockadministration@gilead.com  or by
telephoning 650-522-5517.         
   - 6 -   

18.   Optionee Acceptance  . Optionee must accept the terms and conditions of
this Agreement either electronically through the electronic acceptance procedure established by the Corporation or through a written acceptance delivered to the Corporation in a form satisfactory to the Corporation. In no event shall this option be
exercised in the absence of such acceptance.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Gilead Sciences, Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed on
its behalf by its duly-authorized officer on the day and year first indicated above.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

- 7 -   

APPENDIX       The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:      A.   Administrator   shall
mean the Compensation Committee of the Board (or any subcommittee thereof) acting in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.      B.
  Agreement   shall mean this Stock Option Agreement.      C.   Applicable Laws   shall mean the legal requirements related
to the Plan and the option under applicable provisions of the federal securities laws, state corporate and state securities laws, the Code, the rules of any applicable Stock Exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, and the rules of
any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to options granted to residents therein.      D.   Board   shall mean the Corporation s
Board of Directors.      E.   Cause   shall mean the termination of Optionee s Continuous Service as a result of Optionee s
(i) performance of any act, or failure to perform any act, in bad faith and to the detriment of the Corporation; (ii) dishonesty, intentional misconduct, material breach of any fiduciary duty owed to the Corporation; or
(iii) commission of a crime involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or physical or emotional harm to any person.      F.   Change in
Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:      (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation s stockholders,  unless  securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the
successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to
such transaction;      (ii) a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets;
     (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons
comprising a  group  within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is
under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly (whether as a result of a single acquisition or by reason of one or more acquisitions within the twelve-(12) month period ending with the most recent acquisition) the
beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or  
       
   A-1   

convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s
outstanding securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves
a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation s existing stockholders; or      (iv) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board
membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (a) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (b) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority
of the Board members described in clause (A) above who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.      In no event,
however, shall a Change in Control be deemed to occur upon a merger, consolidation or other reorganization effected primarily to change the State of the Corporation s incorporation or to create a holding company structure pursuant to which the
Corporation becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of an entity whose outstanding voting securities immediately after its formation are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially
owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to the formation of such entity.      G.   Code   shall
mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      H.   Common Stock   shall mean shares of the Corporation s common
stock.      I.   Consultant   shall mean any person, including an advisor, who is compensated by the Corporation or any Related
Entity for services performed as a non-employee consultant;  provided, however   ,   that the term  Consultant  shall not include non-employee Directors serving in their capacity as Board members. The term
 Consultant  shall include (i) a former Board member during his or her period of service as Director Emeritus immediately following his or her cessation of service as a Board member, without an intervening break in Continuous Service,
or (ii) an individual serving as a member of the board of directors of a Related Entity.      J.   Continuous Service   shall
mean the performance of services for the Corporation or a Related Entity (whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, Director or Consultant. For purposes of this Agreement, Optionee shall be deemed
to cease Continuous Service immediately upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) Optionee no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Related Entity or (ii) the entity for
which Optionee is performing such services ceases to remain a Related Entity of the Corporation, even though Optionee may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity.         
   A-2   

K.   Corporation   shall mean Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor
corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of Gilead Sciences, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.      L.   Director   shall mean a member of the Board.      M.   Domestic Partner   shall mean a person who meets and
continues to meet all of the criteria detailed in the Gilead Sciences Affidavit of Domestic Partnership when the Domestic Partnership has been internally registered with the Corporation by filing with the Corporation an original, properly completed,
notarized Gilead Sciences Affidavit of Domestic Partnership.      N.   Employee   shall mean an individual who is in the employ of
the Corporation (or any Related Entity), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.      O.   Exercise Date   shall mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 9 of the Agreement.
     P.   Exercise Price   shall mean the exercise price per Option Share as specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.   
  Q.   Exercise Schedule   shall mean the schedule set forth in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement, pursuant to which the option is immediately
exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares.      R.   Expiration Date   shall mean the date specified in Paragraph 1 of the
Agreement for measuring the maximum term for which the option may remain outstanding.      S.   Fair Market Value   per share of
Common Stock on any relevant date shall be the closing price per share of Common Stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported), as quoted on the Stock Exchange serving as the primary trading market for the Common Stock, on the last market
trading day prior to the date of determination (or, if no closing price or closing bid was reported on that date, as applicable, on the last trading date such closing price or closing bid was reported), as reported in  The Wall Street Journal 
or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable.      T.   Grant Date   shall mean the date of grant of the option as
specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.      U.   Immediate Family   shall mean, with respect to Optionee, any child, stepchild,
grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law including adoptive relationships, Domestic Partner, a trust in
which such persons (or person) have more than fifty percent (50%) of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which such persons (or person) control the management of such entity s assets, or any other entity in which such persons (or
person) own more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests.         
   A-3   

V.   1934 Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from
time to time.      W.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code
Section 422.      X.   Notice of Exercise   shall mean the notice of option exercise in the form prescribed by
the Corporation.      Y.   Option Share  s shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option as
specified in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.      Z.   Optionee   shall mean the person to whom the option is granted
pursuant to the Agreement.      AA.   Parent   shall mean a  parent corporation,  whether now or hereafter
established, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.      BB.   Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 2004
Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.      CC.   Related Entity   shall mean (i) any Parent or
Subsidiary of the Corporation and (ii) any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation and ending with the corporation in the chain for which Optionee provides services as an Employee, Director or Consultant,
provided each corporation in such chain owns securities representing at least twenty percent (20%) of the total outstanding voting power of the outstanding securities of another corporation or entity in such chain and there is a legitimate
non-tax business purpose for making this option grant to Optionee.      DD.   Stock Exchange   shall mean the
American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global or Global Select Market or the New York Stock Exchange.      EE.
  Subsidiary   shall mean a  subsidiary corporation,  whether now or hereafter established, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.      FF.   Withholding Taxes   shall mean any federal, state and local taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in
connection with the exercise of the option.         
   A-4   

</EX-10.65>

<EX-21.1>
 10
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Country of Incorporation     
 
    Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Alberta, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Alberta ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Colorado, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Holdings, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Sciences (NZ)   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Gilead Sciences Belgium   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Gilead Sciences Canada, Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Gilead Sciences Cork Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Sciences Denmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Gilead Sciences Europe Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Sciences Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Gilead Sciences GesmbH.   
      
  Austria   
 
    Gilead Sciences GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Gilead Sciences Hellas EPE   
      
  Greece   
 
    Gilead Sciences Holding, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Sciences Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Gilead Sciences International Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Sciences, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Gilead Sciences Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Sciences llac Ticaret Limited Sireketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Gilead Sciences Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Sciences Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Gilead Sciences Netherlands BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Gilead Sciences Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Gilead Sciences Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Gilead Sciences SARL   
      
  France   
 
    Gilead Sciences, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Gilead Sciences, S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Gilead Sciences Sweden AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Gilead Sciences Switzerland Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Leaf   Shield Insurance Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Tri-Supply Limited   
      
  Ireland   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-08085, 333-08083, 333-47520, 333-58893, 333-64628, 333-84713, 333-84719, 333-102911, 333-102912, 333-117480, 333-126012, 333-135412, 333-136814, 333-138985 and 333-143920) pertaining to
the 1991 Stock Option Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 1995 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan of Gilead Sciences, Inc., the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1993 Incentive Stock Plan, the
NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, the Vestar, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, the Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, Option Agreement, dated August 5, 2002, between Triangle Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. and Daniel G. Welch, the Corus Pharma, Inc. 2001 Stock Plan, the Myogen, Inc. 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-103871, 333-111451, 333-138979, 333-54350 and 333-87167) of Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and in the related Prospectuses of our reports dated February 25, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Gilead Sciences, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Gilead Sciences, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2007.      /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 25, 2008   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

Certification of CEO, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, John C. Martin, Ph.D., certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures
to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report
is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 27, 2008   
     
    /s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN             

John C. Martin, Ph.D.       President and Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

Certification of CFO, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATIONS       I, John F. Milligan, Ph.D., certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures
to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report
is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 27, 2008   
     
    /s/    J OHN  F.
M ILLIGAN             

John F. Milligan, Ph.D.       Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 14
 dex32.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350

Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to Section 1350 

Exhibit 32        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.  
1350, as adopted), John C. Martin, Ph.D., the President and Chief Executive Officer of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (the Company), and John F. Milligan, Ph.D., the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies
that, to the best of his knowledge:       1.  The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2007, to which this Certification is attached as Exhibit 32.1 (the Annual Report), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and   
   2.  The information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the
Company at the end of the periods covered by the Annual Report and results of operations of the Company for the periods covered by the Annual Report.      Dated: February 27, 2008       

/s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

/s/    J OHN  F.
M ILLIGAN             
 
     John C. Martin, Ph.D.       President and Chief Executive Officer    

John F. Milligan, Ph.D.       Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer     
    This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to
be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general
incorporation language contained in such filing.   

</EX-32>

