<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_882095_0001193125-09-040769_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2185065</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>762895</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>115932</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1085667</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-040769.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227144937
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-040769
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GILEAD SCIENCES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000882095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				943047598
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19731
		FILM NUMBER:		09642016

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505743000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BvF6wjc67dGfshlkfy0P2V3J6/hoqQ2MommjI0DGQsBo5VpXmmaQahR4ri104czC
 YUke4y4Ere6yOe1LgOt30g==

 0001193125-09-040769.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              
   FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)        
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008        or        
     For the transition period
from                    to                    
       Commission File No. 0-19731                  GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   94-3047598    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    

333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California   
     
   94404    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 650-574-3000                  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
    Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share   
     
  The Nasdaq Global Select Market   
     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
     Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-Accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant based upon the closing price of its Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 30, 2008
was $45,855,192,117.*      The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock on February 20, 2009 was 910,954,602.
      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Specified portions of the registrant s proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant s 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
held on May 6, 2009, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.   

*  
  Based on a closing price of $52.95 per share on June 30, 2008. Excludes 56,609,605 shares of the registrant s Common Stock held by executive officers, directors and any
stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of registrant s common stock outstanding at June 30, 2008. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to indicate that any such person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or
cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant.                 

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        2008 Form 10-K Annual Report        Table of Contents        

PART I   

Item 1  
      
     Business    
      
  2   
 
  Item 1A  
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  22   
 
  Item 1B  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  37   
 
  Item 2  
      
     Properties    
      
  37   
 
  Item 3  
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  38   
 
  Item 4  
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  38   

PART II   

Item 5  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

39   
 
  Item 6  
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  42   
 
  Item 7  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  44   
 
  Item 7A  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    
      
  66   
 
  Item 8  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  69   
 
  Item 9  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  69   
 
  Item 9A  
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  69   
 
  Item 9B  
      
     Other Information    
      
  71   

PART III   

Item 10  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  71   
 
  Item 11  
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  71   
 
  Item 12  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  71   
 
  Item 13  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  71   
 
  Item 14  
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  71   

PART IV   

Item 15  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  72   

SIGNATURES    
      
  129   
    We own or have rights to various
trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD     , GILEAD SCIENCES     , TRUVADA     , VIREAD     , EMTRIVA     , HEPSERA     , AMBISOME     , VISTIDE     , LETAIRIS      and VOLIBRIS . ATRIPLA      is a registered trademark belonging to Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. MACUGEN      is a registered trademark belonging to OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. SUSTIVA      is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Pharma Company. TAMIFLU      is a registered trademark belonging to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. FLOLAN      is a registered
trademark of SmithKline Beecham Corporation. This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies.   

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as  expect,   anticipate,   target,   goal,   project,   hope,   intend, 
 plan,   believe,   seek,   estimate,   continue,   may,   could,   should,   might,  variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends, operating cost trends, liquidity and capital needs and other
statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those
identified below under  Risk Factors,  beginning at page 22. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made
only as of the date hereof. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we do not undertake and specifically decline any obligation to update any of these statements
or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.          
   1   

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and
commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America,
Europe and Australia. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life threatening diseases to market. We continue to seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and
clinical development programs and through an active product acquisition and in-licensing strategy.       Our Products        

Truvada   (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) is an oral formulation dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. It is a fixed dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine).          

Atripla   (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of
HIV infection in adults. Atripla is the first once daily single tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. It is a fixed dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread and Emtriva,
and Bristol Myers-Squibb Company s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, Sustiva (efavirenz).          

Viread   is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat HIV
infection in adults. In 2008, we received marketing approval of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in the United States, the European Union and other countries, including Canada and Turkey.          

Emtriva   is an oral formulation of a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat HIV
infection in adults. In the United States and Europe, Emtriva is also approved as part of combination therapy to treat HIV infection in children.          

Hepsera   (adefovir dipivoxil) is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue polymerase inhibitor, dosed once a day to treat chronic hepatitis B. We
have licensed the rights to commercialize Hepsera for the treatment of hepatitis B in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories to GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK).          

AmBisome   (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent to treat serious
invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species. Our corporate partner, Astellas Pharma, Inc. (Astellas), promotes and sells AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we promote and sell AmBisome in Europe, Australia and New Zealand.

Letairis   (ambrisentan) is an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group 1)
in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening. Letairis is available only through a special restricted distribution program called the Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP). Only
prescribers and pharmacies registered with LEAP may prescribe, sell and distribute Letairis. We sublicensed to GSK the rights to ambrisentan, marketed by GSK as Volibris, for certain hypertensive conditions in territories outside of the United
States.          

Vistide   (cidofovir injection) is an antiviral medication for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with AIDS. We sell Vistide in the
United States through our wholesale channel and in 25 countries outside the United States.            
   2   

Table of Contents  

Flolan   (epoprostenol sodium) is an injected medication for the long-term intravenous treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary
hypertension associated with the scleroderma spectrum of disease in New York Heart Association Class III and Class IV patients who do not respond adequately to conventional therapy. We have exclusive rights to market, promote and distribute Flolan
and the sterile diluent for Flolan in the United States until April 2009. Flolan is distributed in the United States through a specialty pharmacy.         The following table lists aggregate product sales for our major products (in thousands):       
    See Item 8, Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on page 122 included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, for our total revenues by geographic area.       Royalties from Other Products        

Tamiflu   (oseltamivir phosphate) is an oral antiviral available in capsule form for the treatment and prevention of influenza A and B. Tamiflu is
approved for the treatment of influenza in children and adults in more than 60 countries, including the United States, Japan and the European Union and is also approved for the prevention of influenza in children and adults in the United States,
Japan and the European Union. We developed Tamiflu with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche). Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us royalties
based on a percentage of the net sales of Tamiflu worldwide.          

Macugen   (pegaptanib sodium injection) is an intravitreal injection of an anti-angiogenic oligonucleotide for the treatment of neovascular age-related
macular degeneration. Macugen was developed by OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OSI) using technology licensed from us and is now promoted in the United States by OSI. OSI holds the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Macugen in the United States,
and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Macugen in the rest of the world. We receive royalties from OSI based on sales of Macugen worldwide.          Commercialization and Distribution       We have U.S. and
international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.      Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third
party distributors and corporate partners. Our commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians,  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory
for a specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory.
     In the United States, our commercial team promotes Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Flolan. We promote Atripla in the
United States with our joint venture partner, Bristol Myers-Squibb Company (BMS). We currently distribute Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and Vistide in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Our product sales to
three large wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. On a combined basis, these wholesalers
accounted for approximately 90% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 48% of our total revenues. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome for us in the United States. Two of our products,
Letairis and Flolan, are distributed exclusively by specialty pharmacies. These specialty pharmacies specialize in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing
counseling.      In territories outside the United States, we sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome in Asia,
Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and New Zealand either through our commercial teams or third party distributors. We promote Atripla jointly with BMS in the majority of countries in Europe and are responsible for selling and
distributing the product in these countries. In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either we, BMS or a third party distributor are the sole promoting, selling and distributing company. In a smaller group of non-European
Union Eastern and Central European countries, Atripla is promoted by BMS either directly or through third party distributors. Under an agreement with Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck), we plan to promote and distribute Atripla in twelve countries
in Latin America and Asia-Pacific either through Merck or our existing third party distributor partners. We rely on our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco Inc., to promote and sell Truvada, Viread and Emtriva in Japan. Our corporate partner, Astellas,
also promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome in Canada. Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd is responsible for promotion and distribution of AmBisome in Japan.       Access in the Developing World       Through the Gilead Access Program, established in 2003, certain of Gilead s HIV
products are available at substantially reduced prices in more than 125 countries in the developing world. We have developed a system of tiered pricing that reflects the economic status (using gross national income GNI per capita) and HIV
prevalence. This approach allows us to price our therapies based on a country s ability to pay. For example, if a higher prevalence exists in a certain country, but the country also has a relatively high GNI, the country would be moved to a
lower price tier to accommodate higher burden of disease.      We also support many clinical studies through the donation of our products to
help define the best treatment strategies in developing world countries. For example, in November 2002, we entered into a collaborative agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) of the United Kingdom, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and GSK in
connection with a clinical study conducted by the MRC on antiretroviral HIV therapy in Africa. The trial is called the DART (Development of AntiRetroviral Therapy) study and is aimed at studying clinical versus laboratory monitoring practices and
structured treatment interruptions on continuous antiretroviral therapy in adults with HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. We provide Viread at no cost for the DART study.      We also work closely with the World Health Organization and with non-governmental organizations to provide AmBisome for the treatment of leishmaniasis, a
parasitic disease, at a preferential price in resource limited settings. We support numerous clinical studies investigating the role of AmBisome to treat visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis in developing countries through collaborations with
organizations such as the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative and M decins Sans Fronti res.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   We have also entered into a number of collaborations related to access of our products in the developing
world, which include:       

PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd.  In 2005, PharmaChem Technologies established a facility in The Bahamas to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla, for resource limited countries through a cooperative effort with PharmaChem Technologies and the Grand Bahama Port
Authority.          

Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd (Aspen).  In October 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing and distribution agreement with Aspen, providing for
the manufacture and distribution of Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program. In November 2007, we amended our agreement with Aspen. Under the amended
agreement, Aspen retained the right to manufacture and distribute Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection in certain developing world countries in our Gilead Access Program. Aspen has the right to purchase Viread and Truvada in
brite-stock form from us for distribution in such countries, and also has the right to manufacture Viread and Truvada using active pharmaceutical ingredient that has been purchased by Aspen from suppliers approved by us. Aspen was also granted the
right to manufacture and distribute generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with emtricitabine for the treatment of HIV infection. Aspen is required to
pay us royalties on net sales of Viread and Truvada, as well as royalties on net sales of generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with emtricitabine that are manufactured
and distributed by Aspen.          

Generic Licenses.  During 2006, we entered into non-exclusive license agreements with ten Indian generic manufacturers, granting them the rights to produce
and distribute generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for the treatment of HIV infection to 95 low income countries around the world, which included India and many of the low income countries in our Gilead Access Program. The agreements
require that the generic manufacturers meet certain national and international regulatory standards and include technology transfer to enable expeditious production of large volumes of high quality generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
In addition, these agreements allow for the manufacture of commercial quantities of both active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product.          

Merck.  In August 2006, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Merck pursuant to which we provide Atripla at substantially reduced prices to HIV
infected patients in developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America and Southeast Asia. Under the agreement, we manufacture Atripla using efavirenz supplied by Merck, and Merck handles distribution of the product in the countries
covered by the agreement.          

International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) and CONRAD.  In December 2006, we entered into an agreement under which we granted rights to IPM and CONRAD,
a cooperating agency of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) committed to improving reproductive health by expanding the contraceptive choices of women and men, to develop, manufacture and, if proven efficacious, arrange for
distribution in resource limited countries of tenofovir as a microbicide to prevent HIV infection.          Competition       Our products and development programs target a number of areas, including viral, fungal, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. There are many
commercially available products for the treatment of these diseases. Many companies and institutions are making substantial investments in developing additional products to treat these diseases. Our products compete with other available products
based primarily on:       

efficacy;          

safety;            
   5   

Table of Contents  

tolerability;          

acceptance by doctors;          

ease of patient compliance;          

patent protection;          

ease of use;          

price;          

insurance and other reimbursement coverage;          

distribution; and          

marketing.           Our HIV
Products.   The HIV landscape is becoming more competitive and complex as treatment trends continue to evolve. A growing number of anti-HIV drugs are currently sold or are in advanced stages of clinical development. Of the approximately 28
branded HIV drugs available in the United States, our products primarily compete with the fixed dose combination products in the nucleotide/nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) class, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine);
Epzicom/Kivexa (abacavir/lamivudine) and Trizivir (abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine), each sold by GSK. Other HIV products compete directly with products in the same NRTI class sold by BMS, although our HIV products also compete broadly with HIV
products from Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck, Pfizer, Roche and Tibotec Therapeutics, a division of Ortho Biotech Products, L.P., a subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson.      BMS s Videx EC (didanosine, ddI) became the first generic HIV product in the United States in 2004. GSK s Retrovir (zidovudine) also faces
generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic zidovudine in 2005. GSK s Zerit (stavudine) also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic stavudine in 2008. To date, there
has been little impact from generic didanosine, zidovudine or stavudine on the price of our HIV products; however, price decreases for all HIV products may result in the longer term.        AmBisome.   AmBisome faces strong competition from several current and expected competitors. Competition from these current and expected
competitors may erode the revenues we receive from sales of AmBisome. AmBisome faces competition from Vfend (voriconazole) developed by Pfizer and caspofungin, a product developed by Merck that is marketed as Cancidas in the United States and as
Caspofungin elsewhere. AmBisome also competes with other lipid-based amphotericin B products, including Abelcet (amphotericin B lipid complex injection), sold by Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the United States, Canada and Japan and by Zeneus Pharma
Ltd. in Europe; Amphotec (amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate complex for injection), sold by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC worldwide; and Anfogen (amphotericin B liposomal), sold by Genpharma, S.A. in Argentina. BMS and numerous
generic manufacturers sell conventional amphotericin B, which also competes with AmBisome.      We are aware of at least two lipid formulations
that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. Furthermore, the manufacture of lipid
formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association.        Our HBV Products.   Our hepatitis B virus (HBV) products, Hepsera and Viread, face significant competition from existing and expected therapies for treating patients with chronic hepatitis B. Our HBV
products face competition from Baraclude (entecavir), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by BMS and launched in the United States in 2005, and Tyzeka/Sebivo (telbivudine), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation (Novartis) for sale in the United States, the European Union and China.  
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

Our HBV products also compete with Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (lamivudine), developed by GSK in collaboration with Shire Pharmaceuticals Group PLC and sold in the
major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia.      Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of hepatitis B also compete with
established immunomodulatory therapies, including Intron-A (interferon alfa-2b), which is sold by Schering Plough Corporation in major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia, and Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a), an
injectable drug similar to Intron-A sold by Roche for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.        Letairis.   Letairis competes
directly with Tracleer (bosentan) sold by Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. and indirectly with PAH products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer.        Vistide.   Vistide competes with a number of drugs that also treat cytomegalovirus retinitis, including Cytovene IV and Cytovene (ganciclovir), sold in intravenous and oral formulations by Roche and
as an ocular implant by Bausch   Lomb Incorporated; Valcyte (valganciclovir), also marketed by Roche; Foscavir (foscarnet), an intravenous drug sold by AstraZeneca PLC; and Vitravene (fomivirsen), a drug injected directly into the eye, sold
by CibaVision.        Flolan   .  Flolan competes primarily with Remodulin (treprostinil), a form of prostacyclin that is
administered via continuous subcutaneous infusion or continuous intravenous infusion, which is sold by United Therapeutics Corporation in the United States. Flolan also competes with Ventavis (iloprost), an inhaled form of prostacyclin sold by
affiliates of Actelion Ltd. in the United States. In addition, because the patent covering Flolan has expired, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of Flolan in the United States.        Tamiflu.   Tamiflu competes with Relenza (zanamivir), an anti-influenza drug that is sold by GSK. Relenza is a neuraminidase inhibitor that
is delivered as an orally-inhaled dry powder. Generic competitors include amantadine and rimantadine, both oral tablets that only inhibit the replication of the influenza A virus. BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing injectable formulations
of peramivir, an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza, which are currently in Phase 2 clinical trials.        Macugen.   Macugen competes primarily with Visudyne (verteporfin for injection), which is sold by Novartis and used in connection with photodynamic therapy, and Lucentis (ranibizumab), which is sold by Genentech, Inc.
     A number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. These competing
companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private
organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and programs.       Collaborative Relationships       As part of our business strategy, we establish collaborations with other companies,
universities and medical research institutions to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for
acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies, universities and medical research institutions. More information regarding certain of these relationships, including their ongoing
financial and accounting impact on our business can be found in Item 8, Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 107 through 111 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

     Commercial Collaborations        Although we currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern the manufacture, sale, distribution and/or marketing of our products in various territories worldwide, the following commercial
collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.       

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS).  In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS to develop and
commercialize the single tablet regimen of our Truvada and BMS s Sustiva in the United States. This combination was approved for use in the United States in July 2006 and is sold under the name Atripla. We and BMS structured this collaboration
as a joint venture by forming a limited liability company called Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. Under the terms of the collaboration, we and BMS granted royalty free sublicenses to the joint venture for the use of our
respective company owned technologies and, in return, were granted a license by the joint venture to use any intellectual property that results from the collaboration. The economic interests of the joint venture held by us and BMS (including share
of revenues and out-of-pocket expenses) are based on the portion of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Sustiva (efavirenz), respectively. Since the net selling price for
Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of Sustiva, both our and BMS s respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually. We and BMS share marketing and sales efforts, with both parties providing
equivalent sales force efforts at levels agreed to annually by BMS and us. The daily operations of the joint venture are governed by four primary joint committees formed by both BMS and us. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax
reporting and product distribution for the joint venture. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into Canada. The agreement will continue until terminated by
the mutual agreement of the parties. In addition, either party may terminate the other party s participation in the collaboration          within 30 days after the launch of at least one generic version of such other party s single agent products (or the double agent products). The non-terminated party then has the right to continue to sell Atripla
and a short-term obligation to pay royalties to the terminated party.          In December 2007, we entered into a
collaboration with BMS which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we and BMS commercialize Atripla in the European Union, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Either we, BMS or a third party distributor act as the selling party
in these countries and are responsible for, among other things, receiving and processing customer orders, warehousing product, collecting sales and handling returns. Manufacturing of Atripla is coordinated by us, and we are primarily responsible for
distribution logistics. In general, the parties share revenues and out-of-pocket expenses in proportion to the net selling prices of Truvada, with respect to us, and efavirenz, with respect to BMS. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of
the last to expire patent which affords market exclusivity to Atripla or one of its components in the European countries covered by the agreement. Prior to such time, either party may terminate the agreement for any reason, with such termination to
be effective in December 2013. The non-terminating party has the right to continue to sell Atripla, but will be obligated to pay the terminating party certain royalties for a three year period following the effective date of the termination. In the
event the non-terminating party decides not to sell Atripla, the effective date of the termination will be the date Atripla is withdrawn in each country or the date on which a third party assumes distribution of Atripla, whichever is earlier.

F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche).  In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement with Roche to
develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the original agreement, Roche had the exclusive
right and obligation to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of the net sales that Roche generated from Tamiflu sales. Under the agreement, we received an up-front payment in the amount of $5.0
million and were entitled to receive additional milestone payments of up to $40.0 million upon the achievement of certain development and  
          
   8   

Table of Contents  

regulatory objectives. We have received all such milestone payments. In October 1996, Roche also made a cash payment to us in the amount of $5.3 million
related to reimbursement for certain research and preclinical development expenses and our obligation to prosecute and maintain certain patents under the agreement. In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the original
agreement with Roche. The amendment eliminated cost of goods adjustments from the royalty calculation, retroactive to calendar year 2004 and for all future calculations. The amendment also provided for the formation of a joint manufacturing
committee to review Roche s manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United States and a joint supervisory
committee to evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis. Each of the committees consists of representatives from both Roche and us. Under the amendment, we have the option to provide a specialized sales force to
supplement Roche s U.S. marketing efforts for Tamiflu, which we have not exercised to date. The agreement and Roche s obligation to pay royalties to us will terminate on a country-by-country basis as patents providing exclusivity for
Tamiflu in such countries expire. Roche may terminate the agreement for any reason in which case all rights to Tamiflu would revert to us. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.

GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK).  In March 2006, we exclusively sublicensed to GSK rights to ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis, which
is marketed under the name Volibris in territories outside the United States) for certain hypertensive conditions in territories outside of the United States. Under the license agreement, we received an up-front payment of $20.0 million and, subject
to the achievement of specific milestones, we are eligible to receive total additional milestone payments of $80.0 million. Through December 31, 2008, we have received $37.5 million of such potential milestone payments. In addition, we will
receive royalties based on net sales of Volibris in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for Volibris in the GSK territories during the term of the license agreement.
Under the agreement, we will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Letairis and Volibris in the United States, Canada and the
European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional development activities in its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the licensed field, and each party will pay its
share of external costs associated with such joint development. The agreement and GSK s obligation to pay royalties to us will terminate on a country-by-country basis on the earlier of the date on which generic equivalents sold in a country
achieve a certain percentage of total prescriptions for the product plus its generic equivalents or the fifteenth anniversary of commercial launch in such country. GSK may terminate the agreement for any reason. Upon such termination events, all
rights to the product would revert to us. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.           Research Collaborations        We currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern our
research and development of certain compounds and drug candidates. The following research collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.

Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (Abbott).  In June 2003, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Abbott to develop and commercialize
darusentan for all conditions except oncology and made initial license payments totaling $5.0 million. Under the terms of the agreement, Abbott has the right of first negotiation to participate with us in the co-promotion of the product and has a
right of first negotiation to become our exclusive development and commercialization partner in Japan. In addition, we are obligated to make future milestone payments of up to $45.0 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory approvals, as
well as pay royalties based on net sales if we  
          
   9   

Table of Contents  

successfully commercialize the drug for any indication. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize the product in
certain countries. If we do not commercialize darusentan in certain countries, Abbott may market the product on its own in the affected markets and pay us a royalty on its sales. Darusentan is currently being studied in Phase 3 clinical trials for
the treatment of patients with resistant hypertension. Through December 31, 2008, we have made $2.0 million in milestone payments. Our obligation to pay royalties will terminate on a country-by-country basis as patents providing exclusivity for
the product in such countries expire. We may terminate the agreement in certain circumstances, including if we determine the product would not have a reasonable likelihood of commercial success, in which case all rights and responsibilities for the
product would revert to Abbott. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.          

Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco).  In March 2005, we entered into a licensing agreement with Japan Tobacco,
under which Japan Tobacco granted us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco would retain such rights. Under the agreement, we
are responsible for seeking regulatory approval in our territories and are required to use diligent efforts to commercialize a product for the treatment of HIV. We will bear all costs and expenses associated with such commercialization efforts.
Under the terms of the agreement, we paid an up-front license fee of $15.0 million and are obligated to make total potential milestone payments of up to $90.0 million upon the achievement of certain clinical, regulatory and commercial objectives.
Additionally, we are obligated to pay royalties based on any net sales in the territories where we market the product. Through December 31, 2008, we have made total milestone payments of $12.0 million. The agreement and our obligation to pay
royalties to Japan Tobacco will terminate on a product-by-product basis as patents providing exclusivity for the product expire or, if later, on the tenth anniversary of commercial launch for such product. We may terminate the agreement for any
reason in which case the license granted by Japan Tobacco to us would terminate. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.          Research and Development       In addition to entering
into collaborations with other companies, universities and medical research institutions, we seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs and through an active in-licensing and
product acquisition strategy, such as with our acquisitions of Myogen, Inc. and Corus Pharma, Inc. in 2006. In 2008, we acquired all of Navitas Assets, LLC s assets related to its cicletanine business, which we are evaluating as a potential
treatment of PAH. We have research scientists in Foster City and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; Seattle, Washington; and Boulder and Westminster, Colorado, engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies
that we hope will lead to new medicines and novel formulations of existing drugs.      Our product development efforts cover a wide range of
medical conditions, including HIV/AIDS, liver disease, cardiovascular disease and respiratory disease. Below is a summary of our key products and their corresponding current stages of development. For additional information on our development
pipeline, visit our website at www.gilead.com.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

Product Candidate    
      
     Description     

Marketing Applications Pending   

Aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF)  
      
  A new drug application (NDA) for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment cystic fibrosis was submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2007. In
September 2008, we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that the FDA will not approve our NDA for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional Phase 3
clinical study. In November 2008, we filed a request for a formal dispute resolution with the FDA. In February 2009, in response to our appeal, the FDA notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another
clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our NDA. We have also submitted a marketing authorization application in the European Union and received notice of acceptance and priority review by Health Canada for
approval in Canada. We are still awaiting responses from the respective regulatory bodies.   

Phase 3   

Ambrisentan  
      
  Ambrisentan is an oral ERA being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).   

Darusentan  
      
  Darusentan is an oral ERA being investigated as an add-on therapy for patients with resistant hypertension.   

Elvitegravir  
      
  Elvitegravir is an oral integrase inhibitor that is being evaluated as part of combination therapy for HIV in treatment experienced patients.   

Preparing for Phase 3   

Ambrisentan  
      
  Ambrisentan is also going to be evaluated for the treatment of chronic allograft injury in kidney transplant recipients and pulmonary hypertension in patients with IPF.   

Phase 2   

GS 9190  
      
  GS 9190 is an oral non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor being evaluated as part of combination therapy with peg-interferon alfa 2A and ribavirin in treatment-na ve hepatitis C virus (HCV)
infected patients (genotype 1).   

GS 9310/11  
      
  GS 9310/11 is an inhaled co-formulation of fosfomycin and tobramycin under evaluation for bacterial infections associated with CF.   

GS 9450  
      
  GS 9450 is an oral caspase inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of inflammatory and fibrotic conditions, including HCV and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.   

Aztreonam for inhalation solution  
      
  Aztreonam for inhalation solution is also being evaluated for bronchiectasis.   

Cicletanine  
      
  Cicletanine is an oral agent in development for PAH.   

Preparing for Phase 2   

GS 9350  
      
  GS 9350 is a pharmacoenhancer that is in development as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines.   

Elvitegravir / GS 9350 / Truvada  
      
  This is a  four-in-one  fixed dose regimen that combines elvitegravir, GS 9350, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine under evaluation for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in
treatment-na ve patients.   
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

Product Candidate    
      
     Description     

Phase 1   

GS 9191  
      
  GS 9191 is a nucleotide analogue under evaluation as a topical ointment in patients with external genital and perianal warts caused by human papilloma virus infection.   

GS 9219  
      
  GS 9219 is a nucleotide analogue under evaluation in patients with non-Hodgkin s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.   

GS 9411  
      
  GS 9411 is an oral epithelial sodium channel blocker designed to increase airway hydration in patients with pulmonary disease.   
    In total, our research and development expenses for 2008 were $721.8 million, compared with $591.0
million for 2007 and $383.9 million for 2006.       Patents and Proprietary Rights       Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult
for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection
both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. We also rely on trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovations and
agreements with third parties to develop, maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy.      We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide
adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents.      The following table shows the actual or estimated
expiration dates in the United States and Europe for the primary patents and for patents that may issue under pending applications that cover the compounds in our marketed products:       

*  
  Supplementary Protection Certificate protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confers an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity until 2016.

**  
  Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Truvada.        Patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Vistide are held by third parties. We
acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

have with these parties. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. Instead, we hold patents to the liposomal formulations of this compound and
also protect formulations through trade secrets. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China and certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. We do have applications pending in
various countries in Asia, including China, that relate to specific forms and formulations of Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B infection, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed. Further, the patent covering
Flolan and market exclusivity protection have expired. As a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of Flolan in the United States.      We may obtain patents for certain products many years before we obtain marketing approval for those products. Because patents have a limited life,
which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. For example, extensions for the patents on many of our
products have been granted in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term extensions may be available for other products that we are developing, but we
cannot be certain we will obtain them.      It is also very important that we do not infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and that
we do not violate the agreements that grant proprietary rights to us. If we do infringe patents or violate these agreements, we could be prevented from developing or selling products or from using the processes covered by those patents or
agreements, or we could be required to obtain a license from third parties to allow us to use their technology. We cannot be certain that, if required, we could obtain a license to any third party technology or that we could obtain one at a
reasonable cost. If we were not able to obtain a required license or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products, and our business could be adversely affected. For example, we are aware of a
body of patents that may relate to our operation of LEAP, our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. In addition, Actelion, which markets Tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a method of use for ERAs for the
treatment of IPF. If issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own ERA, ambrisentan, for IPF.      Because patent
applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that
is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. If competitors file patent applications
covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of
operations may be adversely affected by such events.      Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products,
compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or re-examination proceedings
regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate our patents or substantially reduce their protection. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections
for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.      Although we were successful in responding to the PTO office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian
Health Ministry, citing the pending U.S. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested  
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August
2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We have filed an appeal with the patent
authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in
the courts, the Brazilian patent authority will reject the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. If the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application is rejected by the Brazilian patent authority, the Brazilian government would likely
purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil.      Our pending patent
applications and the patent applications filed by our collaborative partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third parties
from developing compounds or products that are closely related to those which we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries in Africa and Asia, including China, do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party
manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries.      As part of the approval process of some of our
products, the FDA granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products
that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our
products. It is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), which is the application form typically used by
manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. For example, in November
2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by
Emory University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York
against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the action, and we may spend significant resources defending these patents. If we are unsuccessful in the lawsuit, some or all of our original
claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated, and the patent protection for Truvada in the United States would be shortened to expire in 2017 instead of 2021.      We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. In particular, a great deal of our liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of
our liposomal technology, is not covered by patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements
provide that all confidential information developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be used or disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the
case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions made by an individual while employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate
remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our research and development agreements, inventions become jointly owned by us and our corporate
partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one party. In certain circumstances, it can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could arise regarding those inventions.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   In August 2007, the PTO adopted new rules which were scheduled to become effective on November 1,
2007. In October 2007, GSK successfully obtained a preliminary injunction against implementation of these rules, and in April 2008, the court ruled in support of GSK s challenge to the rules and obtained a permanent injunction against their
implementation. The rules would have restricted the number of claims permitted in a patent application and the number of continuing patent applications that can be filed. Following the court s ruling, the PTO filed a notice of appeal to the
Federal Court of Appeals. If the PTO successfully appeals the court s decision and the rules are implemented, we may be limited in our ability to obtain broad patent coverage for our products and product candidates, which may allow competitors
to market products very similar to ours or to obtain patent coverage for closely related products.       Manufacturing and Raw Materials       Our manufacturing strategy is to contract with third parties to manufacture the majority of our solid dose products. We also rely on our corporate
partners to manufacture certain of our products. Additionally, we own manufacturing facilities in San Dimas, California; Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; and Dublin and Cork, Ireland where we manufacture certain products for clinical and commercial uses.
     We contract with third parties to manufacture certain products for clinical and commercial purposes, including Truvada, Atripla, Viread,
Emtriva, Hepsera and Vistide. We use multiple third party contract manufacturers to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla;
emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla; and adefovir dipivoxil, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Hepsera. We also rely on third party contract
manufacturers to tablet or capsulate products. For example, we use multiple third party contract manufacturers to tablet Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva and Hepsera. Emtriva capsulation is also completed by third party contract manufacturers. We
rely on a single third party supplier to tablet Letairis.      We also have manufacturing agreements with our corporate partners. Roche, by
itself and through third parties, is responsible for the manufacturing of Tamiflu. Under our agreement with Roche, through a joint manufacturing committee composed of representatives from Roche and us, we have the opportunity to review Roche s
existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu. GSK and its affiliates, by themselves or through third parties, manufacture Flolan for distribution by us in the United States under the terms of our
distribution and supply agreement with GSK.      At our San Dimas facility, we manufacture, fill and package products. We manufacture AmBisome
exclusively at this facility. We depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas under our manufacturing agreements with
OSI and Pfizer. OSI currently provides pegaptanib sodium, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Macugen. We also fill and package drug product for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva and Hepsera in their finished forms at our facilities in San
Dimas. The FDA recently approved our facilities in San Dimas to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, subject to FDA approval of the product and delivery device.      At our Edmonton, Alberta facility, we carry out process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, manufacture our active pharmaceutical ingredients for investigational products and conduct chemical
development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes. In addition, we utilize this site for the manufacture of emtricitabine. We also manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis exclusively at our Edmonton
site, although another supplier is qualified to make the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis.      We fill and package drug product
for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva and Hepsera in their finished forms at our facilities near Dublin, Ireland. We also perform quality control testing, final labeling and packaging of  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

AmBisome and distribution of many of our products for the European Union and elsewhere at this facility. We utilize our Cork, Ireland facility primarily for
solid dose tablet manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities.      The manufacturing process
for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to the FDA s
current Good Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our manufacturing operations are
also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. Additionally, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our
control. If we or any of our third party manufacturers or our corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and
applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.      We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third party contract manufacturers, we have
disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third party manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or revealing this technology,
but we cannot be certain that these third party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. In addition, these third party manufacturers could develop their own technology related to the work they perform for us that we may need to
manufacture our products. We could be required to enter into additional agreements with these third party manufacturers if we want to use that technology ourselves or allow another manufacturer to use that technology. The third party manufacturer
could refuse to allow us to use their technology or could demand terms to use their technology that are not acceptable to us.      We need
access to certain supplies and products to manufacture our products. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason or if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials used to manufacture our products,
we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our product candidates in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one
facility. For example, because we manufacture AmBisome and fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas, California, in the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be
unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture AmBisome and Macugen to meet market needs. Our product candidate, aztreonam for inhalation solution, which is pending FDA approval, is dependent on
four different single-source suppliers. First, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. Second, it is administered to the lungs of patients through a
device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. Third, the FDA recently approved our facilities in San Dimas to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, subject to FDA approval of the product and delivery device. The San Dimas
facility is the only manufacturing site authorized to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, although we are pursuing FDA approval of a third party manufacturer. Fourth, the diluent for aztreonam for inhalation solution will be manufactured
by a single manufacturer at a single site. Problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts.      For our future products, we will continue to consider developing additional manufacturing capabilities and establishing additional third party suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates
to undertake clinical trials and to manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale. If we are unable to develop manufacturing capabilities internally or contract for large scale manufacturing with third parties
on acceptable terms for our future products, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer demand for commercial products will be adversely affected.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

    Seasonal Operations and Backlog       Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality. However, our royalty revenues, which represented about 4% of our total revenues in 2008 and of which Tamiflu royalties comprised a
significant portion, are affected by seasonality. Royalty revenue that we recognize from Roche s sales of Tamiflu can be impacted by the severity associated with flu seasons and product delivery in response to the avian influenza pandemic
threat.      For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs. We do not
believe that backlog information is material to our business as a whole.       Government Regulation       Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and other countries. In the
United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval,
advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming.      The FDA must approve a drug before it can be sold in the United States. The general process for this approval is as follows:        Preclinical Testing        Before we can test a drug candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments
and in animals to generate data to support the drug candidate s potential benefits and safety. We submit this data to the FDA in an investigational new drug (IND) application seeking their approval to test the compound in humans.        Clinical Trials        If the FDA accepts the IND
application, we study the drug candidate in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective. These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These
three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:       

Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for safety, dose
tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.          

Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best dose of the
drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 2 clinical trials.

Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those results. Phase 3
clinical trials are conducted over a longer term, involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and
benefits of a drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 3 clinical trials.            
   17   

Table of Contents  

     FDA Approval Process        When we believe that the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials show an adequate level of safety and efficacy, we submit the appropriate filing, usually in the form of an NDA or supplemental NDA, with the FDA seeking
approval to sell the drug candidate for a particular use. The FDA may hold a public hearing where an independent advisory committee of expert advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This committee
makes a recommendation to the FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by the FDA. If the FDA agrees that the compound has met the required level of safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in
the United States for that use. It is not unusual, however, for the FDA to reject an application because it believes that the drug candidate is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable
or conclusive.      At any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate can be stopped for a number of reasons including safety
concerns and lack of treatment benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently conducting or any that we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within any specified time period. We may choose, or the FDA
may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that the patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.      The FDA may also require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further characterize safety and efficacy during commercial
use of our drug. The FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our product candidates
if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits of the drug. In addition, even if the FDA approves a drug, it could limit the uses of the drug. The FDA can withdraw approvals if it does not believe that
we are complying with regulatory standards or if problems are uncovered or occur after approval.      In addition to obtaining FDA approval for
each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the manufacturing facilities for any drug we sell, including those of companies who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA must also approve
foreign establishments that manufacture products to be sold in the United States and these facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California, including our San Dimas facilities, also must be
licensed by the State of California in compliance with local regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing facilities located in Canada, including our Edmonton, Alberta facility and our facilities located near Dublin and in Cork, Ireland, also must
obtain local licenses and permits in compliance with local regulatory requirements.      Drugs that treat serious or life threatening diseases
and conditions that are not adequately addressed by existing drugs and for which the development program is designed to address the unmet medical need may be designated as fast track candidates by the FDA and may be eligible for accelerated and
priority review. Drugs for the treatment of HIV that are designated for use under the U.S. President s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief may also qualify for an expedited or priority review. Viread, Truvada and Atripla received accelerated
approval and priority reviews. Drugs receiving accelerated approval must be monitored in post-marketing clinical trials in order to confirm the safety and benefits of the drug.      We are also subject to other federal, state and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. We use hazardous
materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds in our research and development activities and cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Any misuse or accidents involving these materials
could lead to significant litigation, fines and penalties.      Drugs are also subject to extensive regulation outside of the United States. In
the European Union, there is a centralized approval procedure that authorizes marketing of a product in all countries of the European Union  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

(which includes most major countries in Europe). If this centralized approval procedure is not used, approval in one country of the European Union can be
used to obtain approval in another country of the European Union under one of two simplified application processes: the mutual recognition procedure or the decentralized procedure, both of which rely on the principle of mutual recognition. After
receiving regulatory approval through any of the European registration procedures, separate pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required in most countries.        Pricing and Reimbursement        Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on
the availability of governmental and third party payor reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement.
In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of
medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. For example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant
discounts from list price and rebate obligations. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on
product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations
related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.      Legislative and
regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There have been significant changes to the federal Medicare system in recent years
in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D. The
prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we have benefited from patients transitioning from Medicaid to Medicare Part D since 2006, the longer term impact of Medicare Part D on our business is not yet clear to us, and the
impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to
selected products in a category. Third party payors providing Medicare Part D coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass
legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare pricing. The increasing pressure to lower prescription drug
prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. Our results of operations could be materially
adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. In addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. To the extent
that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. Additionally, any additional statutory or regulatory
changes, including potential changes to Medicare Part D, and health care reform at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect payment for our drugs and demand for our product. At this time, a few states have already enacted health care
reform legislation, and the federal government and individual state governments continue to consider health care reform policies and legislation. The pricing and reimbursement environment for our products may change in the future and become more
challenging due to, among other reasons, new policies of the new presidential administration or new health care legislation passed by Congress.      The Ryan White Program, the largest federal program designed to provide care and support services for people living with HIV in the United States, provides funding for our HIV products through state AIDS Drug  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

Assistance Programs (ADAP) to many patients who are uninsured or underinsured. Federal funding is appropriated by Congress each year and is provided to
cities, states, providers and other organizations. In addition to federal funding, some states and localities provide additional funding for Ryan White services. The program is due to be reauthorized again by September 2009 unless otherwise extended
by Congress, and there may be changes to the program which would change or decrease the funding available for our HIV products. For example, if appropriations for Ryan White are held at the same amount as in previous years and more people access our
drugs through ADAP, then it is likely that we will face pressures to provide even greater discounts for drugs purchased through the program. In addition, falling state revenues and budget cuts may result in reduction of state or local funding for
Ryan White, which could lead to increased demand on our patient assistance programs, under which we offer our HIV products free of charge to eligible patients.      In Europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries
patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. For example, we have not launched Atripla
in France as we remain in reimbursement discussions with French government authorities. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices
of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, retrospective taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as
volumes increase. In recent years, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of required discounts on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of
the global economic downturn. As new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the European countries. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with
escalating health care spending. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth.      Government agencies also issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, from time to time, professional
societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations and organizations publish guidelines or recommendations directed to certain health care and patient communities. Such recommendations and guidelines may relate to such matters
as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing therapies and can consequently result in increased or decreased usage of our products.        Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws        We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
to health care  fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce,
the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities, it is possible that certain of our
practices may be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for
reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our sales and marketing activities may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If
the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   In November 2006, we received a subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office in San Francisco
requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for Truvada, Viread and Emtriva. We are complying with the U.S. Attorney s subpoena and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry.        Compulsory Licenses        In a number of developing
countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant
compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the
affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. As a result of discussions with the Brazilian
government, we reached agreement with the Brazilian Health Ministry in May 2006 to reduce the price of Viread in Brazil by approximately 50%. In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic
have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing and
least developed countries under Canada s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group)
Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu patents, or should Roche
issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and
manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if
generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales.       Employees       As of January 31, 2009, we had approximately 3,441 full-time employees. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.       Environment       We seek to comply with all applicable
statutory and administrative requirements concerning environmental quality. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection. Expenditures for compliance with environmental laws have not had, and are
not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.       Other Information    
  We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with
the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an electronic message to
the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   The mailing address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404, and our
telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the  Investors  section of our website (under  SEC Filings  in the  Financial Information  section), we make available
the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge upon request.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS          In evaluating our business, you
should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to
be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face.        A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of
our HIV products. If we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of our HIV products, our results of operations may be adversely affected.       We are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of HIV, especially Truvada and Atripla, to support our existing operations. Our HIV products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or
emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. Were the treatment paradigm for HIV to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our HIV product
sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (R D) efforts. HIV product sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $4.33
billion, or 81% of our total revenues, and sales of Truvada and Atripla accounted for 49% and 36%, respectively, of our total HIV product sales during 2008. We may not be able to sustain the growth rate of sales of our HIV products for the reasons
stated in this risk factor section and, in particular, for the following reasons:       

As our HIV products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues
with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could
reduce our revenues.          

As our HIV products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases
pressure on us to reduce prices.          

A large part of the market for our HIV products consists of patients who are already taking other HIV drugs. If we are not successful in encouraging physicians to
change patients  regimens to include our HIV products, the sales of our HIV products will be limited.          

As generic HIV products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected.            
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory
levels held by wholesalers, pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price.       During the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 90% of our product sales in the United States were to three wholesalers, Cardinal Health,
Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp. The U.S. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels
to actual end user demand. As a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. In addition, inventory is held at
retail pharmacies and other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. Adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their
inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers  orders from us, even though end user demand has not changed. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, strong prescription
demand for Truvada and Atripla was not fully reflected in our revenues for the fourth quarter. We believe this is because during the quarter, inventories were drawn down within the retail distribution channel. As inventory in the distribution
channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see the mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our revenues. In addition, the non-retail sector in the United States, which includes government institutions, including
state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAP), correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily
mirror the purchasing patterns that can be seen within the retail sector. For example, in the first quarter of 2008, we observed large non-retail purchases by a small number of state ADAPs that purchase centrally and have significant warehousing
capacity. We believe such purchases were driven by the grant cycle for federal ADAP funds rather than current patient demand, which tempered orders and our associated product sales, revenues and earnings in the second quarter of 2008 as these
organizations depleted their increased inventory levels established during the first quarter of 2008. We expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our
product sales, revenues and earnings in the future.      We estimate the future demand for our products, consider the shelf life of our
inventory and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. If actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our
stock price.       If we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues may be
adversely affected.       If we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing products, we will not be able to
increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our R D efforts.      For example, in December 2007, the Committee for
Medicinal Product for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) granted marketing authorization for Atripla in the European Union for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults with virologic suppression to HIV-1 RNA levels of less than 50
copies/mL on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more than three months. Patients must not have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harbored virus strains with mutations
conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in Atripla. This restriction of Atripla s use in the European Union will prevent us from promoting Atripla for use in patients who are not currently achieving this
reduction in viral load through the use of antiretroviral therapy, including newly diagnosed patients. If we seek to expand the indication for Atripla in the European Union, the EMEA may require us to perform additional clinical trials, which we may
be unable to complete. If we are unable to expand the indication for Atripla to include a broader population of patients, the impact to future sales of Atripla in the  
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

European Union is unknown but could be more limited than in other markets, including the United States, where we have no such restrictions. In addition,
sales of Atripla may increase at the expense of product sales of its component products and our overall total revenues and gross margin may not increase as Atripla sales increase.      Further, the marketing authorization application submitted by us for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in the
United States was delayed when we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that the FDA will not approve the application in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical study. In November 2008, we
filed a request for dispute resolution with the FDA to determine whether further analyses of the existing data could lead to approval or whether we will need to conduct an additional study. In February 2009, in response to our appeal, the
FDA notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our new drug application (NDA). Existing data from any ongoing or from any
additional clinical trial that we may commence to satisfy FDA concerns may not support FDA approval of aztreonam for inhalation solution, which may cause us considerable expense and may lead to further delays or cause us to abandon further
development of the product. There are also risks that health authorities in other countries where marketing authorization applications are pending will undertake similar additional reviews which would compound the risks described above.   
   A significant portion of our product sales occur outside the United States, and currency fluctuations may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely
affect our stock price.       Because a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the
Euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the
U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar
relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. The net foreign currency exchange impact on our 2008 revenues and pre-tax earnings, which includes revenues and expenses generated from outside the United
States, was a favorable $148.2 million and $92.6 million, respectively, compared to 2007. Recently, the U.S. dollar has appreciated against major European currencies, and the amount of the favorable impact on our product sales which resulted from
the previously relatively weak U.S. dollar has decreased.      We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of
our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the Euro. We also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between
the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. We cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar continues to appreciate against certain currencies and
our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results of operation will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.       We face significant competition.       We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. In addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. Our HIV products compete primarily
with products from GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK), which markets fixed dose combination products that compete with Truvada and Atripla. For Hepsera and Viread for treatment of chronic hepatitis B, we compete primarily with products produced by GSK,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) and Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) in the United States, the European Union and China. For AmBisome, we compete primarily with products produced by Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck) and
Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer). In addition, we are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations
may reduce market demand  
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

for AmBisome. Furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe,
sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association. Letairis competes directly with Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with PAH products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer. Tamiflu competes with
products sold by GSK and generic competitors. Aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF, if approved for marketing, will compete with a product marketed by Novartis.      In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. These competing
companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private
organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and programs.       If
significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations.       The data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in
controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. As our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue
to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of
these products.      Our product Letairis, which was approved by the FDA in June 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin
receptor antagonists which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. Because of these risks, Letairis is available only through the Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), a restricted distribution program
intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. As the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with Letairis which may result
in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of Letairis which may decrease demand for the product. For example, since the launch of Letairis, cases of edema in certain patients taking Letairis have been reported.
This information has recently been added to the product label, which may negatively impact demand for the product.      If serious safety,
resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, including Letairis, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected.   
   Our operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to maintain
compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products.       The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by
regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. We are continuing clinical trials for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva, AmBisome and Letairis
for currently approved and additional uses. We anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. These products may fail to receive such marketing
approvals on a timely basis, or at all.      In September 2008, we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that the FDA
will not approve our NDA for aztreonam for inhalation solution for treatment of CF in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical study. In November 2008, we filed a request for dispute resolution with  
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

the FDA to determine whether further analyses of the existing data could lead to approval or whether we will need to conduct an additional study. In February
2009, in response to our appeal, the FDA notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our NDA. Existing data from any ongoing
clinical trials or any additional clinical trial that we may commence to satisfy FDA concerns may not support FDA approval of aztreonam for inhalation solution, which may cause us considerable expense and may lead to further delays or cause us to
abandon further development of the product. There are also risks that health authorities in other countries where marketing authorization applications are pending will undertake similar additional reviews which would compound the risks described
above.      In addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review.
Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. If we fail to comply
with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution.      On September 27, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, which significantly expanded the
FDA s authority, including, among other things, to:       

require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected
serious risk;          

mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product s lifecycle, based on new safety information; and          

require sponsors to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a
communication plan to healthcare providers or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product.         Failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the FDA, could result in significant civil monetary penalties.   
   The results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely
affect our prospects for future revenue growth.       We are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for
each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. The results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. Even successfully completed
large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate
to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. We may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. If the clinical trials for any of the product candidates
in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. For example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel HIV integrase
inhibitor; darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension; and ambrisentan for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), each currently in Phase 3 clinical trials that could prevent completion of development of these product
candidates. These risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing
to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we
believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If these programs and others in  
       
   26   

Table of Contents  

our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. In addition, clinical
trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business.       Due to our reliance on third party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials.       We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on
independent third party contract research organizations (CROs), over which we do not have control, to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training,
program management and bioanalytical analysis. If there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our CROs, our clinical trials may be delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical
work performed by third party CROs. If any of our CROs  processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted.   
   We depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. Failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by
these companies or disputes with these companies could negatively impact our business.       We rely on a number of significant collaborative
relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. These include collaborations with BMS for Atripla in the United States, Europe and Canada; Roche for Tamiflu; and GSK for ambrisentan
in territories outside of the United States. In some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva and AmBisome. Some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by
our partners. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including:       

our inability to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products;          

disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners;          

disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result
in litigation or arbitration;          

contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform;

our corporate partners having considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative
technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors;          

our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do
to products of their own development; and          

our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions.         Given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our
product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline.      Under our April 2002
licensing agreement with GSK, we gave GSK the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of Hepsera in territories in Asia, Africa and Latin America. These include major markets for Hepsera, such as China, Japan,
Taiwan and South Korea. The success of Hepsera in  
       
   27   

Table of Contents  

these territories depends almost entirely on the efforts of GSK. In this regard, GSK promotes Epivir-HBV/Zeffix, a product that competes with Hepsera.
Consequently, GSK s marketing strategy for Hepsera may be influenced by its promotion of Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. We receive royalties from GSK equal to a percentage of GSK s net sales of Hepsera as well as net sales of GSK s
Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. If GSK fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing Hepsera in its territories, our potential revenues from sales of Hepsera from these territories may be substantially reduced.
     In addition, Letairis is distributed through third party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of
medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. The use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs,
regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will:       

not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints;          

not effectively sell or support Letairis;          

not devote the resources necessary to sell Letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;          

not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or          

cease operations.         We also rely on a
third party to administer LEAP, the restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. This third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of Letairis, confirms insurance
coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for Letairis by the FDA and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third party
specialty pharmacies. Failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute Letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the FDA or decreased Letairis sales, either of which would harm our
business.      Further, we will be dependent on the supplier of the inhalation device that delivers aztreonam for inhalation solution, if and
when regulatory approval is obtained, to distribute the device through specialty pharmacies or other distribution channels, and we will not have control over many key aspects related to the device. For example, the supplier could encounter issues
with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device at the time of a commercial launch or following such a launch. Moreover, because this device will be subject to a separate reimbursement
approval process, in the event our supplier is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales of aztreonam for inhalation solution may be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to
obtain adequate supplies of inhalation devices. Any of the previously described issues may limit or further delay the commercial launch of aztreonam for inhalation solution, which would adversely affect our financial results.       Our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce
profitability.       Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payor
reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other
significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new
and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. For example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations.
In addition, the  
       
   28   

Table of Contents  

increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put
additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental
laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.      In Europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to
use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. For example, we have not launched Atripla in France as we remain in
reimbursement discussions with French government authorities. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription
pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, retrospective taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes
increase. In recent years, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of the
global economic downturn. As new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the European countries. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with
escalating health care spending. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth.       Our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future health care reforms.       Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There have been significant changes to the federal
Medicare system in recent years in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for prescription
drugs under Medicare Part D. The prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we have benefited from patients transitioning from Medicaid to Medicare Part D since 2006, the longer term impact of Medicare Part D on our
business is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and
the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. Third party payors providing Medicare Part D coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking
place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare pricing. The increasing
pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. Our
results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. In addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower
payment for our products. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. Additionally, any
additional statutory or regulatory changes, including potential changes to Medicare Part D, and health care reform at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect payment for our drugs and demand for our product. At this time, a few
states have already enacted health care reform legislation, and the federal government and individual state governments continue to consider health care reform policies and legislation. The pricing and reimbursement environment for our products may
change in the future and become more challenging due to, among other reasons, new policies of the new presidential administration or new health care legislation passed by Congress.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

   The Ryan White Program, the largest federal program designed to provide care and support services for
people living with HIV in the United States, provides funding for our HIV products through state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAP) to many patients who are uninsured or underinsured. Federal funding is appropriated by Congress each year and is
provided to cities, states, providers and other organizations. In addition to federal funding, some states and localities provide additional funding for Ryan White services. The program is due to be reauthorized again by September 2009 unless
otherwise extended by Congress, and there may be changes to the program which would change or decrease the funding available for our HIV products. For example, if appropriations for Ryan White are held at the same amount as in previous years and
more people access our drugs through ADAP, then it is likely that we will face pressures to provide even greater discounts for drugs purchased through the program. In addition, falling state revenues and budget cuts may result in reduction of state
or local funding for Ryan White, which could lead to increased demand on our patient assistance programs, under which we offer our HIV products free of charge to eligible patients.       Expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.       The clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. It is difficult to accurately predict or control the
amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter. Uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline.       Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. We
may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology.       Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to:       

obtain patents and licenses to patent rights;          

preserve trade secrets; and          

operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others.         If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that
prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our
compounds, products and technology.      We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our
compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Patent applications are confidential for a period
of time until a patent is issued. As a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent
applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. In addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our
technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations
may be adversely affected by such events.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   From time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. For example, in 2007, the
Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and
Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.   
  Although we were successful in responding to the PTO office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in
foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the pending U.S. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not
supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We have filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
patent application. If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian patent authority will reject the tenofovir DF patent application. If the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application
is rejected by the Brazilian patent authority, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil.      Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China or certain other Asian countries covering
all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B infection, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed. Flolan s patent and market exclusivity protection has
expired. As a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of Flolan in the United States.      We may
obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the
patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions.      As part of the approval process of some of our
products, the FDA granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products
that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our
products. It is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), which is the application form typically used by
manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. For example, in November
2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by
Emory University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York
against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the action and we may spend significant resources defending these patents. If we are unsuccessful in the lawsuit, some or all of our original
claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Truvada in the United States would be shortened to expire in 2017 instead of 2021.      In August 2007, the PTO adopted new rules which were scheduled to become effective on November 1, 2007. In October 2007, GSK successfully obtained a preliminary injunction against implementation of these rules,
and in April 2008, the court ruled in support of GSK s challenge to the rules and obtained a permanent  
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

injunction against their implementation. The rules would have restricted the number of claims permitted in a patent application and the number of continuing
patent applications that can be filed. Following the court s ruling, the PTO filed a notice of appeal to the Federal Court of Appeals. If the PTO successfully appeals the court s decision and the rules are implemented, we may be limited in
our ability to obtain broad patent coverage for our products and product candidates, which may allow competitors to market products very similar to ours or to obtain patent coverage for closely related products.       Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties.       If we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. We
may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. For
example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of LEAP, our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. In addition, Actelion, which markets Tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a method of
use for endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) for the treatment of IPF. If issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own ERA, ambrisentan, for IPF.      Furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our
production and other technologies. Our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors.       Manufacturing problems could
delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations.       We depend on third parties to
perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. In addition, Roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing Tamiflu. The manufacturing process for
pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to the FDA s current
Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our manufacturing operations are
also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. Additionally, these third party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our
control. If we or any of these third party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and
applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.       Our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize aztreonam for inhalation solution, if approved, will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility.       Aztreonam is a mono-bactam Gram-negative antibiotic that we currently plan to manufacture, by ourselves or through third parties, in multi-product
manufacturing facilities. Historically, the FDA has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the FDA will continue to allow this practice. We do not currently have a
single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of aztreonam for inhalation solution nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for aztreonam for inhalation solution. If the FDA prohibits the
manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam for inhalation solution, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely
affect our commercial supplies of aztreonam for inhalation solution and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product, if approved.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

    We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our
products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues.       We need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical
trials and to manufacture our products. In light of the economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used in our manufacturing process. If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these
materials or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues.
     Suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an NDA filed with the FDA for any product candidate for which we are seeking
FDA approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. Even after a manufacturer is qualified by the FDA, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and
quality control to ensure full compliance with GMP. Manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the FDA following initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that the equipment, facilities,
laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may suspend the manufacturing operations. If the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our products are
suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business.      In addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial
supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. For example, we manufacture AmBisome and fill and finish
Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas, California. In the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be
unable to manufacture AmBisome and Macugen to meet market needs.      Our product candidate, aztreonam for inhalation solution, which is
pending FDA approval, is dependent on four different single-source suppliers. First, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. Second, it is
administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. Third, the FDA recently approved our facilities in San Dimas to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, subject to FDA approval of the
product and delivery device. The San Dimas facility is the only manufacturing site authorized to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, although we are pursuing FDA approval of a third party supplier. Fourth, the diluent for aztreonam for
inhalation solution will be manufactured by a single manufacturer at a single site.      In addition, we depend on a single supplier for high
quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and for the tableting of Letairis. Problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively
impact our development and commercialization efforts.       We face credit risks from our European customers that may adversely affect our results of
operations.       Our European product sales to government-owned or supported customers in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain are subject to
significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. This has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding.
Our accounts receivable in these countries totaled approximately $543.8 million as of December 31, 2008, of which $191.0 million was more than 120 days past due. Historically, receivables accumulated over a period of time and were settled as
large lump sum payments as government funding became available. If significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these European governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts
due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

    Our product revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at
lower prices.       Prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country.
Our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. There have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted
prices in the developing world and then re-exported to European countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. If this happens with our products, particularly Truvada and Viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially
reduced prices to more than 125 countries participating in our Gilead Access Program, or Atripla, which Merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries under our August 2006 agreement, our revenues
would be adversely affected. In addition, we have established partnerships with ten Indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing world countries, including
India. If generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the United States, Europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected.      In addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are
relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For example, in the European Union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another
country. Purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and can cause the relative sales
levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and be more difficult to forecast. In addition, wholesalers may attempt to arbitrage the pricing differential between countries by purchasing excessive quantities of our products.
These activities may result in fluctuating quarterly sales in certain countries which do not reflect the actual demand for our products from customers. Such quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock
price. For example, during 2007, we experienced increased sales of our HIV products in France. We believe a portion of these products was being re-exported to other countries and resold at higher prices. Our sales of Truvada and Viread in France and
any countries to or from which sales have been re-exported may continue to fluctuate. Although we established an order management system in France in December 2007 to manage Truvada and Viread sales to facilitate the adequate and appropriate supply
of those products commensurate with market demand in France, there can be no assurance that this management system will be effective or that these re-exporting activities will not continue in France, other European countries or elsewhere, and as a
result, our results of operations could be adversely affected.       In some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or
face generic competition for our products.       In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have
suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell
their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering
issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. As a result of discussions with the Brazilian government, we reached agreement with the Brazilian Health Ministry in May 2006
to reduce the price of Viread in Brazil by approximately 50%. In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu
patents. For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under Canada s Access
to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party  
       
   34   

Table of Contents  

manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s
Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third
party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of
our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into
territories where we have existing commercial sales.       We may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance
and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings.       The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products,
as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. In recent years, coverage and availability
of product liability insurance has decreased. In addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our
financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and to market our products will be adversely impacted. In addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future
demand for our products and impair our financial condition.       Our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially
impact our business.       We continually evaluate our levels of self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors,
severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. However, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other
expenses.       Expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings.       In November 2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic
version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by Emory University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use
or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the action, and we may
spend significant resources defending these patents. If we are unsuccessful in the lawsuit, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated, and the patent protection for Truvada in the United States would be
shortened to expire in 2017 instead of 2021.      In addition, we, along with certain of our officers and a former officer, were named as
defendants in a class action lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws. The lawsuit was dismissed by the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, but in August 2008 the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit reversed the dismissal and remanded the case to the district court. In February 2009, we filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States, requesting that the Court review the judgment of the court
of appeals. While the Supreme Court reviews our petition, the case continues before the district court.      Further, in November 2006, we
received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office in San Francisco requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for Truvada, Viread and  
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

Emtriva. We have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry. The outcome of the class action lawsuit, any other
lawsuits brought against us, the investigation or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief
against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business.       Changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our
earnings.       Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited
to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R D spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the
mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above
mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income.      Our income tax returns are audited by federal,
state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2003 and 2004 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations,
and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. Resolution of one or more of these exposures in any
reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.       Changes in accounting may affect our financial position and
results of operations.       U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be
highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial
position and results of operations.      For example, in May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position
No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  (FSP APB 14-1). FSP APB 14-1 addresses instruments commonly referred to as Instrument C from Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 90-19,  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion , which requires the issuer to settle the principal amount in cash and the conversion spread in cash or net shares at the
issuer s option. FSP APB 14-1 requires that issuers of these instruments account for their liability and equity components separately by bifurcating the conversion option from the debt instrument, classifying the conversion option in equity and
then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. FSP APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal
years, and requires retrospective application to all periods presented. Early application is not permitted. We expect that the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of
operations. Based on the requirements of FSP APB 14-1, we estimate that if FSP APB 14-1 was effective for the current and comparative periods, we would have reported additional interest expense related to our convertible senior notes of
approximately $53.2 million, $50.0 million and $32.7 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      In addition, in December 2007, the
FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree in a business combination. SFAS 141R also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business combination; requires purchased in-process research and development to
be  
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

capitalized at fair value as intangible assets at the time of acquisition; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized
separately from the business combination; expands the definition of what constitutes a business; and requires the acquirer to disclose information that users may need to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. SFAS
141R is effective on a prospective basis and will impact business combination transactions for which the acquisition date occurs in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Depending on the nature and magnitude of our future business
combination transactions, SFAS 141R may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and/or results of operations.       If we fail to
attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates.       Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management
personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities
and other organizations. Competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable
terms. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not applicable.

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our corporate headquarters, including
our principal offices and some of our commercial, administrative, research and development (R D) facilities, are located in Foster City, California. In January 2009, we purchased approximately 30 acres of land and the office building located at
301 Velocity Way in Foster City. With this purchase, we now own 18 buildings in Foster City.      We lease facilities in Foster City and San
Dimas, California, to house some of our manufacturing, warehousing and R D activities. In addition, we also lease facilities in Durham, North Carolina; Boulder and Westminster, Colorado; and Seattle, Washington to house some of our
administrative and R D activities.      Our international headquarters, which include some of our commercial, medical and administrative
facilities, are located and leased in the London area in the United Kingdom.      We also lease and own facilities in the Dublin area of
Ireland to house our manufacturing and distribution activities. We acquired a manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland in September 2007 in connection with the acquisition of Nycomed Limited. We have transferred certain of our operations from our
Dublin area site to this facility and utilize the site primarily for solid dose tablet manufacturing of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities.      We also own a manufacturing facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, that we primarily use to conduct process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, the manufacturing of our active pharmaceutical
ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and our chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes.      We have leased additional facilities to house our commercial, medical and administrative activities in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased sites, are in good condition and
suitable for the conduct of our business. We believe our capital resources are sufficient to purchase, lease or construct any additional facilities required to meet our expected long-term growth needs.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         In November 2008, we received
notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, U.S. Patent Numbers
6,642,245 and 6,703,396, owned by Emory University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit
in U.S. District Court in New York against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the action, and we may spend significant resources defending these patents. If we are unsuccessful in the
lawsuit, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated, and the patent protection for Truvada in the United States would be shortened to expire in 2017 instead of 2021.      Information pertaining to certain of our other legal proceedings can be found under the heading  Legal Proceedings  in Item 8,
Note 11  Commitments and Contingencies  to our Consolidated Financial Statements on page 114 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference herein.       

ITEM 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2008.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol  GILD . The following table sets forth for the periods indicated
the high and low intra-day sale prices per share of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. These prices represent quotations among dealers without adjustments for retail mark-ups, markdowns or commissions and may not represent prices
of actual transactions.       
    As of February 20, 2009, we had 910,954,602 shares of common stock outstanding held by
approximately 486 stockholders of record.      We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We currently expect to
retain earnings primarily for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near future. In an effort to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock
issuances, our Board of Directors (Board) authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $3.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately
negotiated purchases or other means. See Note 12  Stockholders  Equity  to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 115 through 116 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding our repurchase program.
        
   39   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Graph  (1)              The following
graph compares our total stockholder returns for the past five years to two indices: the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, labeled S P500 Index; and the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index, labeled NBI Index. The total
return for each index assumes the reinvestment of all dividends, if any, paid by companies included in these indices and are calculated as of December 31 of each year.      We are a composite member of each of the S P500 Index and the NBI Index and we intend to use these indices as comparators for our
stock performance for the purposes of the following graph going forward. As a composite member of the S P500 Index, we are required under applicable regulations to use this index as a comparator, and we believe the
NBI Index is a relevant comparator since it is composed of peer companies in lines-of-business similar to ours.      The stockholder
return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns.       Comparison of Cumulative Total Return on Investment for the Past Five Years  (2)          

(1)  
  This section is not  soliciting material,  is not deemed  filed  with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.     
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities        In October 2007, our Board authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount up to $3.00 billion through open market and
private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated share repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This stock repurchase program expires on December 31, 2010.
     The table below summarizes our stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands, except per share
amounts):       

(1)  
  In October 2008, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction with a financial institution to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis.
This accelerated share repurchase is part of the $3.00 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board in October 2007. Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $750.0 million to the financial institution to
settle the initial purchase transaction and received 14,874,519 shares of our common stock at a price of $50.42 per share. On or before April 2009, subject to extension under certain circumstances as well as the maximum and minimum share delivery
provisions of the agreement, we may receive additional shares from the financial institution depending on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share.
After making the initial payment of $750.0 million, we are not obligated to deliver any cash or shares to the financial institution except in certain limited circumstances, in which case the method of delivery (cash or shares of our common stock)
would be at our discretion.     

(2)  
  The difference between the total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs is due to shares of common stock withheld
by us from employee restricted stock awards in order to satisfy our applicable tax withholding obligations.           
   41   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
       SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA        (in thousands, except per share data)        

During 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the assets of Navitas Assets, LLC related to its cicletanine business for an aggregate purchase price of $10.9
million which was allocated to purchased in-process research and development (IPR D).          

During 2006, we completed the acquisition of Myogen, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $2.42 billion, of which $2.06 billion was allocated to purchased
IPR D, $180.8 million was allocated to deferred tax assets primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations, $70.9 million was allocated to goodwill and $110.0 million was allocated to
net tangible assets. In 2006, we also acquired the net assets of Corus Pharma, Inc. for $415.5 million, of which $335.6 million was allocated to purchased IPR D, $71.2 million was allocated to net  
          
   42   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (Continued)          

deferred tax assets primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations, $7.2 million was allocated
to net tangible assets and $1.6 million was allocated to assembled workforce.          

During 2005, we recognized $80.7 million in royalty revenue relating to the resolution of our dispute with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche
Inc.). We also recorded a tax provision benefit of $25.1 million related to our repatriation of qualified foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA).          

During 2004, we recorded a gain of $20.6 million related to our warrant to purchase capital stock of Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., as predecessor to OSI
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which completed its initial public offering.          
    (3)       

During 2006, we issued $1.30 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes in a private placement.          

During 2005, we entered into an uncollateralized $300.0 million term loan agreement to facilitate a cash dividend distribution as part of the repatriation of our
qualified foreign earnings under the provisions of the AJCA.            
   43   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         The following Management s Discussion and Analysis (MD A) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial
condition. MD A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and other disclosures included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors ). Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and are presented in U.S.
dollars.       Management Overview       We are a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative
therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America, Europe and Australia. We
market Truvada      (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), Atripla      (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Viread      (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva      (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; Hepsera      (adefovir dipivoxil) and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV); AmBisome      (amphotericin B) liposome for injection for the treatment of severe fungal infections; Letairis      (ambrisentan) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH); Vistide      (cidofovir injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection; and Flolan      (epoprostenol
sodium) for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu      (oseltamivir phosphate) for the treatment of
influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. markets Macugen      (pegaptanib sodium injection) in the United States and Europe for the treatment
of neovascular age-related macular degeneration under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) markets Volibris      (ambrisentan) outside of the United
States for the treatment of PAH under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us.       Business Highlights       During 2008, we made significant progress in various areas of our business. We grew our product sales significantly, executed on product approvals and
product launches in multiple territories, made progress on moving our product candidates forward and continued to strengthen our worldwide organization and infrastructure to support our expanded international footprint and business activities.
     Our commercial achievements for the year included the continued rollout of Atripla in the European Union (EU), driving growth of Atripla
and Truvada in the United States and Canada, launching Viread for hepatitis B in the EU and the United States, making gains in the PAH market with Letairis, as well as continuing the expansion of our sales and marketing infrastructure, including the
establishment of new international marketing subsidiaries.      During the year, we received marketing authorization for Viread for the
treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults in all 27 member states of the European Union, Turkey, New Zealand, Australia, the United States and Canada.      Along with the marketing approvals we received in 2008, we made significant advances on the compounds and product candidates in our research and development (R D) pipeline, including:       

In the HIV area, we received positive feedback from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) during the latter part of the year, regarding our development plans
for elvitegravir, our novel integrase inhibitor for HIV which we licensed from Japan Tobacco Inc. in 2005; GS 9350, our pharmacoenhancer that is in development as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines; and our single  
          
   44   

Table of Contents  

tablet fixed dose regimen of elvitegravir, GS 9350 and Truvada. The FDA agreed with our proposal to simultaneously develop these three product candidates,
allowing us to eventually support three separate new drug application (NDA) filings with four Phase 3 clinical studies: one study for elvitegravir, two studies for the single tablet fixed dose regimen mentioned above, and one study for GS 9350. As a
result of this proposal, we will be combining the second of our two previously planned Phase 3 studies for elvitegravir with the first Phase 3 elvitegravir study which we began dosing in the third quarter of 2008.          

In hepatitis C, we completed dosing of patients in the continuation of the Phase 1b study of GS 9190, a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, and began enrolling the
Phase 2 study in patients infected with the hepatitis C virus. During the year, we completed our Phase 2a study of GS 9450, the caspase inhibitor we licensed from LG Life Sciences in 2007, and expect to initiate the Phase 2b study in the second
quarter of 2009 to evaluate the longer term safety and efficacy of GS 9450. We are enrolling patients with nonalcoholic steadohepatitis in a Phase 2a study of GS 9450 to evaluate its safety and effect on liver enzymes and anticipate having data from
this study before the end of 2009.          

In the cardiovascular area, we completed enrollment of one of our two Phase 3 studies for darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension and we anticipate
having data from this study in the second quarter of 2009. We continued to enroll patients in our second Phase 3 study for darusentan, and we anticipate completing the enrollment before the end of 2009 with data available in early 2010. We are
developing cicletanine for PAH and expect to initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial examining both once daily and twice daily dosing in early 2009. We are also preparing to initiate a Phase 3 study of ambrisentan in patients with pulmonary hypertension
in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in the second quarter of 2009.          

In the respiratory area, we submitted an NDA for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) to the FDA in November 2007. In
September 2008, we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that the FDA will not approve our NDA for aztreonam for inhalation for the treatment of CF and requesting an additional Phase 3 clinical study. In November 2008, we
filed a request for a formal dispute resolution with the FDA. In February 2009, in response to our appeal, the FDA notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation
solution before we can resubmit our NDA. We have also submitted a marketing authorization application (MAA) in the EU and received notice of acceptance and priority review by Health Canada for approval in Canada. We are still awaiting responses from
the respective regulatory bodies. Also in the respiratory area, we began enrolling patients with non-CF bronchietasis in a Phase 2 study evaluating aztreonam for inhalation solution for this indication; we initiated a Phase 1 study in the fourth
quarter of 2008 to evaluate the safety and tolerability of GS 9411, a novel epithelial sodium channel blocker designed to increase airway hydration for the treatment of pulmonary disease; and in the fourth quarter of 2008, we also initiated a
Phase 2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of GS 9310/11, an inhaled co-formulation of fosfomycin and tobramycin, for bacterial infections associated with CF.          Financial Highlights       Our operating results for the
year were led by total product sales of $5.08 billion. Antiviral product sales (Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera and Emtriva) increased 36% to $4.67 billion in 2008 from $3.44 billion in 2007, and were the key drivers for total product sales growth
of 36% for 2008 as compared to 2007. With the continued uptake of Atripla in the United States and product launches in Europe, Atripla contributed $1.57 billion, or 34%, to our total 2008 antiviral product sales. The growth of Atripla product sales
and its increased proportion to overall product sales caused total product gross margin to decrease as expected to 78% in 2008 from 79% in 2007, due primarily to the efavirenz component of Atripla sales at zero gross margin. Truvada product sales
for 2008 comprised $2.11 billion, or 45% of our total 2008 antiviral product sales. Truvada product sales for 2008 increased 33% from 2007 primarily due to continued sales volume growth as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange impact.
Foreign currency fluctuations in 2008 had a favorable impact of approximately $148.2 million on total revenues and $92.6 million on pre-tax income when compared to 2007.       
  
   45   

Table of Contents  

   Royalty revenues that we recognized from our collaborations with corporate partners were $218.2 million
in 2008, a decrease of 53% from royalty revenues of $468.2 million in 2007. The decrease in royalty revenues was due primarily to decreased Tamiflu sales by Roche related to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide.      Operating expenses which include R D, selling, general and administrative (SG A) and purchased in-process research and development (IPR D)
expenses increased $233.2 million in 2008, or 18%, compared to 2007, reflecting the increased research and clinical study activity in our development pipeline, our expanded commercial activities worldwide, as well as the higher headcount,
infrastructure and technology-related costs required to support the continued growth of our business. In 2008, we continued to be very focused on cost control and operating margins and will continue to do so in 2009. Our operating margin is impacted
by the efavirenz component of a growing Atripla revenue stream and a declining trend for Tamiflu royalties.      Cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities increased by $517.2 million during the year, driven primarily by our operating cash flows of $2.20 billion. Our strong cash position allowed us to complete two accelerated share repurchase transactions as well as make
significant common stock repurchases from the open market under the $3.00 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors (Board) in October 2007, which expires in December 2010. During 2008, we repurchased a total of $1.97
billion under our stock repurchase program, or approximately 39.2 million shares. As of December 31, 2008, the remaining authorized amount of stock repurchases that may be made under the Board authorized stock repurchase program was $998.1
million.      In light of the volatility and developments in the financial markets, we continued to review our cash equivalents and marketable
securities carefully as well as invest prudently in 2008. Safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements, continued to be of primary importance to our
investment goals. This approach helped protect us from the significant risks in the credit markets in 2008 while allowing us to meet our operating cash flow requirements and execute on other opportunities such as our share repurchases.   
   2009 Outlook       We anticipate that the high level of
productivity and financial performance experienced in 2008 will continue in 2009. Our operating objectives include the expansion of our commercial markets, both from a franchise perspective as well as leveraging the new international marketing
subsidiaries that we have established in the last two years, reaching our significant R D development timelines, continuing to strengthen our pipeline with internally developed and/or externally in-licensed or purchased opportunities and
strengthening our key alliances.      From a commercial standpoint, a number of internal and external initiatives may help promote the
continued growth of our franchises. In the HIV area, we should be favorably impacted by the presentation of important data sets at upcoming medical conferences, continued testing and screening initiatives, and recent changes in HIV treatment
guidelines. In the area of hepatitis B, a broad platform of educational activities concentrated in Asian American communities, highlighting the need to screen, diagnose and link patients to care, will help support Viread for HBV. In the United
States, since the launch of Viread for HBV in August 2008, our hepatitis sales and medical affairs teams have concentrated their efforts solely on promotion of Viread. In the cardiovascular area, we will continue to build our presence within the PAH
community and to support the growth of Letairis in 2009.      We are mindful that conditions in our current macroeconomic environment could
affect our ability to achieve our goals. Some of the factors that could affect our business include: the volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, government pricing pressures in both the United States and internationally, as well as changes in
the financial health and/or practices of our significant business partners and customers. Although we have not yet seen significant changes, we will continue to monitor the credit and foreign currency exchange markets,  
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

developments in health care reform and legislation as well as the practices of our suppliers, manufacturers, corporate partners and customers, and will
adjust our business processes as needed to mitigate these risks to our business.      The successes we experienced in 2008 have helped us
maintain and build a financially sound business model that we believe will allow us to continue to expand our commercial, collaborative and R D activities, and maintain the infrastructure to ensure quality and compliance in all areas of our
business. As we continue to grow our business and achieve greater operational leverage, we remain focused on profitable revenue growth and prudent expense management that we believe will enable solid execution of our operating objectives for 2009.
      Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments       The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, prepaid royalties, clinical trial accruals, our tax provision and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various
other market specific assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results, however, may differ significantly from these estimates.      We believe the following critical accounting policies
reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements.       Revenue Recognition
       Product Sales       We
recognize revenues from product sales when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. We record estimated reductions to
revenues for government rebates such as Medicaid reimbursements, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and expected returns of expired products. These estimates are deducted from gross product sales at the
time such revenues are recognized. Of these reductions from gross product sales, government rebates significantly impact our reported net product sales and are based upon certain estimates that require complex and significant judgment by management.
      Government Rebates       We
estimate amounts payable by us to government managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs for the reimbursement of portions of the retail price of prescriptions filled that are
covered by these programs. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us are recorded in other accrued liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers at a lower
contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower price, which we record as allowances against accounts receivable. Although we may pay rebates in countries outside of the
United States, to date, payments made to foreign governments have not represented a significant portion of our total government rebates. For government programs in the United States, we estimate these sales allowances based on contractual terms,
historical utilization rates, new information regarding changes in these programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and, for
U.S. product sales, channel inventory data obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, U.S government rebates  
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

of $625.0 million, $423.3 million and $232.5 million, respectively, representing 10%, 10% and 8% of total gross product sales, respectively, were deducted
from gross product sales. Based on the current information available to us, actual government rebates claimed for these periods have varied by less than 3% from our estimates recorded in those periods. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had
accrued U.S. government rebates of $173.4 million and $114.1 million, respectively, in other accrued liabilities and an allowance of $32.8 million and $25.3 million, respectively, recorded against accounts receivable.      The following table summarizes the aggregate activity in our U.S. government rebates allowance and accrued liabilities accounts:       
     Allowance for Doubtful Accounts       We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This
allowance is based on our analysis of several factors including, but not limited to, contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by customer and
geographic region and a review of the local economic environment and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. If the financial condition of our customers or the economic environment in which they operate were to
deteriorate, resulting in an inability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Our allowance for doubtful accounts balance as a percentage of total accounts receivable did not materially change from December 31, 2007 to
December 31, 2008. We believe that the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover anticipated losses under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the above factors, especially with respect to the government
funding and reimbursement practices in the European market could materially change these expectations and may result in an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.       Prepaid Royalties       We capitalize royalties that we have prepaid at cost, specifically those related
to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory University (Emory) for the HIV indication, based on the present value of the future royalty obligation that we would expect to pay to Emory assuming certain expected future levels of our product sales
incorporating emtricitabine. The present value of our future royalty obligation was derived using our weighted-average cost of capital. We review quarterly the expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a
write-down in the net recoverable value of our asset or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. Some potential indicators of impairment include the launch of a significant product by a competitor, significant deviations in recognized
product sales compared to forecast and product safety issues and recalls.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

   We amortize our prepaid royalties based on an effective royalty rate that we derive from forecasted HIV
product sales incorporating emtricitabine. Our product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon considering such factors as historical and expected future patient usage or uptake of our
products, the introduction of complimentary or combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, including the introduction of a competing product
by us or one of our competitors in the same HIV market as emtricitabine, we will prospectively update the royalty rate used to amortize our prepaid royalties which may increase future royalty expense. As of December 31, 2008, we had a prepaid
royalty asset relating to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory of $275.0 million. Amortization expense relating to this prepaid royalty asset was $31.8 million, $14.3 million and $15.1 million, for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.       Clinical Trial Accruals       We record accruals for estimated clinical study costs. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third party contract research organizations (CROs). These costs are a significant component of R D expenses.
During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred CRO costs of $111.8 million, $65.6 million and $30.2 million, respectively. We accrue costs for clinical studies performed by CROs on a straight-line basis over the service periods specified in the contracts
and adjust our estimates, if required, based upon our ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the CROs. We validate our accruals quarterly with our vendors and perform detailed reviews of the activities related to our
significant contracts. Based upon the results of these validation processes, we assess the appropriateness of our accruals and make any adjustments we deem necessary to ensure that our expenses reflect the actual effort incurred by the CROs.
     Generally, a significant portion of the total clinical trial costs is associated with start up activities for the trial and patient
enrollment. We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. As a result, CROs typically perform most of the total start-up activities for our trials, including
document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training and program management. Start-up costs usually occur within a few months after the contract has been executed and are milestone or event driven in
nature.      The remaining clinical activities and related costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur ratably
throughout the life of the individual contract or study. Most contracts are negotiated as fixed per unit prices and can vary in length between three months for a single dose Phase 1 clinical study and up to two years or more for a more complex Phase
3 clinical study. The average length of contracts in 2008, 2007 and 2006 has been at the upper end of this range in order to provide long-term safety and efficacy data to support the commercial launches of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva
and Letairis. All of our material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point of termination. Amounts paid in
advance relating to uncompleted services will be refunded to us if a contract is terminated. Some contracts may include additional termination payments that become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such additional termination payments
are only recorded if it becomes probable that a contract will be terminated. Through December 31, 2008, differences between actual and estimated activity levels for any particular study have not been material. However, if management does not
receive complete and accurate information from our vendors or underestimates activity levels associated with a study at a given point in time, we may have to record additional and potentially significant R D expenses in future periods.
      Tax Provision       We estimate our income
tax provision, including deferred tax assets and liabilities, based on significant management judgment. We evaluate the realization of all or a portion of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our
deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. We consider future taxable income, ongoing tax planning strategies and our historical financial performance in assessing the need for a valuation allowance.   
     
   49   

Table of Contents  

   If we expect to realize deferred tax assets for which we have previously recorded a valuation allowance,
we will reduce the valuation allowance in the period in which such determination is first made. Such an adjustment was made in 2008 and 2007 when we determined that it was more likely than not that certain of our deferred tax assets would be
realized, and therefore, we released the related valuation allowance. This resulted in a credit to goodwill of approximately $8.0 million for 2008 and an income tax benefit of approximately $15.5 million and $1.5 million for 2008 and 2007,
respectively.      Our future effective income tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, regulations or rates, changing
interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation, changes in our international organization and changes in overall levels of income before tax.      In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 
(FIN 48), an interpretation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS 109). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48
also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006.      On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and increased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $14.1 million with a corresponding charge to the
opening balance of accumulated deficit, as permitted under FIN 48. In addition, we reclassified $68.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits from short-term income taxes payable and noncurrent deferred tax assets to long-term income taxes payable. As
of the date of adoption, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $86.2 million recorded primarily in long-term income taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including accrued liabilities related to interest of
$4.0 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $78.0 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we have continued to classify interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $119.3 million and $111.7 million, respectively, including interest of $10.1 million and $8.3 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax
benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007, $111.1 million and $103.5 million, respectively, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition.      During 2008, we reached agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on several issues related to the examinations of our federal income tax returns
for 2003 and 2004. As a result, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by $30.0 million.      As of December 31, 2008, we believe it is
reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $56.0 million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining
unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For U.S. federal and California income tax purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for all years
from inception due to our utilization of net operating losses related to prior years.      Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state
and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the IRS for the 2003 and 2004 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are  
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the
timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.      We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions based upon FIN 48. We do not believe any of the currently pending items will have a material
adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse resolution of several or more of these items in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, we
recorded liabilities related to uncertain tax positions based upon SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies .       Stock-based Compensation  
     In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123R), which requires that all
share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. SFAS 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees  (APB 25) and amends SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows . On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method of adoption as permitted under SFAS 123R, which requires that
compensation expense be recorded for all nonvested stock options and other stock-based awards as of the beginning of the first quarter of adoption.      In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123R, we refined our valuation assumptions and the methodologies used to derive those assumptions; however, we elected to continue using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The fair value of
stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R was calculated using the multiple option approach while the fair value of stock options granted beginning January 1, 2006 was calculated using the single option approach. Concurrent with
our adoption of SFAS 123R, we determined that a blend of historical volatility along with implied volatility for traded options on our stock would be a better measure of market conditions and expected volatility. Previously, we used historical stock
price volatility as it was the most reliable source of volatility data. We estimate the weighted-average expected term of our stock options based on historical cancellation and exercise data related to our stock options as well as the contractual
term and vesting terms of the awards. We record stock-based compensation expense using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for nonvested stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R consistent with the expense attribution
approach used for our historical SFAS 123 disclosures and use a straight-line expense attribution approach for stock options granted after the adoption of SFAS 123R. We currently believe that the straight-line expense attribution approach better
reflects the level of service to be provided by our employees over the vesting period of our awards. Stock-based compensation expense related to stock options is recognized net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate forfeitures based on our
historical experience. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, we will only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in additional paid-in-capital (APIC) if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes
currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction through the Consolidated Statements of
Operations rather than through APIC.      During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized stock-based compensation
expense of $153.4 million, $184.6 million and $133.8 million, respectively, in operating expenses, and we capitalized $9.9 million, $9.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively, to inventory. As of December 31, 2008, we had unrecognized
stock-based compensation of $405.3 million related to nonvested stock options, which we expect to expense over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.9 years.      Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure
presented above relating to these critical accounting policies.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations        Total Revenues       We had total revenues of $5.34 billion in 2008, $4.23 billion in 2007 and $3.03 billion in 2006. Included in
total revenues were product sales, royalty revenues and contract and other revenues.       Product Sales       Product sales for the last three years consisted of the following (in thousands):       
    Total product sales increased by 36% in 2008 compared to 2007, due primarily to an overall
increase in our antiviral product sales including the strong growth of Atripla sales as well as the continued growth of Truvada sales. Foreign currency denominated product sales experienced a net benefit from the depreciation of the U.S. dollar of
approximately $148.2 million for 2008 compared to 2007. Total product sales increased by 44% in 2007 compared to 2006, due primarily to an increase in our total product sales volume of $1.04 billion and a favorable foreign currency exchange impact
of $97.9 million. A significant percentage of our product sales continued to be denominated in foreign currencies. We used foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those
denominated in Euro. This reduced, but did not eliminate, fluctuations in sales due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as seen by the net benefit mentioned above.       Antiviral Products       Antiviral product
sales in 2008 increased by 36% compared to 2007 and by 46% in 2007 compared to 2006, driven primarily by sales volume growth of Atripla and Truvada, as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange impact.       

Truvada           Truvada sales
increased by 33% in 2008 compared to 2007 driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe, and a favorable foreign currency exchange impact. Truvada sales increased by 33% in 2007 compared to 2006 driven primarily by strong
sales volume growth in Europe as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange environment in 2007. Truvada sales accounted for 45%, 46% and 51% of our total antiviral product sales for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       

Atripla           Atripla sales
increased by 74% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by the continued uptake of Atripla in the United States, as well as launches of the product in most European countries. Atripla sales increased 339% in 2007 compared to 2006, due primarily
to the first full year of Atripla sales in  
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

2007 as Atripla was launched in the United States in July 2006 as well as the continued strong uptake of Atripla in the United States. We consolidate 100% of
Atripla product sales because we are the primary beneficiary of our joint venture with Bristol Myers-Squibb Company (BMS) in the United States. Outside of the United States, we also recognize 100% of Atripla product sales. The efavirenz portion of
our Atripla sales was approximately $576.0 million, $334.3 million and $76.0 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Atripla sales accounted for 34%, 26% and 9% of our total antiviral product sales for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales
of Atripla in the European Union were not significant in 2007 as Atripla was approved for sale in the European Union in December 2007.       

Other Antiviral Products          Other antiviral product sales, which include product sales of Viread, Hepsera and Emtriva, increased by 5% in 2008 compared to 2007 driven primarily by a 13% increase in Hepsera sales which benefited from a favorable foreign currency impact
as well as sales volume growth in certain European countries. Other antiviral product sales decreased by 1% in 2007 compared to 2006 driven primarily by an 11% and 13% decrease in the sales of Viread and Emtriva, respectively, due to the impact of
patients switching from Viread and Emtriva containing regimens to regimens containing Truvada and/or Atripla in countries where these combination products were available, partially offset by a 31% increase in Hepsera sales due primarily to sales
volume growth across all major geographical regions and a favorable foreign currency exchange environment.       AmBisome       Sales of AmBisome increased 10% in 2008 compared to 2007, due primarily to a favorable foreign currency exchange impact and sales volume growth in certain
European markets. Sales of AmBisome increased 18% in 2007 compared to 2006, due primarily to sales volume growth in Europe as well as a favorable foreign currency exchange impact. AmBisome product sales in the United States relate solely to our
sales of AmBisome to Astellas Pharma Inc. which are recorded at our manufacturing cost.       Letairis       Sales of Letairis for the treatment of PAH increased 437% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States as
Letairis was launched in June 2007.      We expect total product sales to continue to grow in 2009 as we continue to expand our sales and
marketing efforts.       Royalty Revenues       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our royalty revenues (in thousands):       
    Our most significant source of royalty revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was from sales of Tamiflu
by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche).      Royalty revenues for 2008 were $218.2 million, a decrease of
53% compared to 2007, driven primarily by the recognition of Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $155.5 million in 2008 compared to Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $414.5 million in 2007. The lower Tamiflu royalties for 2008 was due primarily to
decreased Roche sales related to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. Royalty revenues for 2007 were $468.2 million, an increase of 12% compared to 2006, driven primarily by the recognition of higher Tamiflu royalties from Roche in 2007,
compared to $364.6 million recorded in 2006. The higher Tamiflu royalties for 2007 were due to the  
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

higher Tamiflu sales recorded by Roche, including sales related to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide during 2007. We recognize royalties on
Tamiflu sales by Roche in the quarter following the quarter in which Tamiflu is sold.       Cost of Goods Sold and Product Gross Margin    
  The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our product sales (in thousands), cost of goods sold (in thousands) and product gross
margin:       
    Our product gross margin for 2008 was 78% compared to 79% for 2007 and 83% for 2006. The decreases
in product gross margin are due primarily to the growing proportion of Atripla sales, which include the efavirenz portion at zero product gross margin and the impact of changes in the product and geographic mix of our product sales.      A higher mix of Atripla product sales decreases our overall product gross margin. Although we record 100% of Atripla product sales, we only benefit from
the product gross margin on the Truvada portion of Atripla sales. The efavirenz portion of Atripla sales carries a zero product gross profit and gross margin since we purchase efavirenz from BMS at BMS s net selling price of efavirenz.
     We expect our product gross margin in 2009 to be lower compared to 2008, due primarily to higher expected Atripla sales.       Research and Development Expenses       The following
table summarizes the period over period changes in the major components of our R D expenses (in thousands):       
    R D expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and
stock-based compensation, clinical studies performed by CROs, materials and supplies, license fees and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities related costs. Our R D activities are separated into three main categories:
research, clinical development and pharmaceutical development. Research costs typically consist of preclinical and toxicology costs. Clinical development costs include costs for Phase 1, 2, 3 and 4 clinical trials. Pharmaceutical development
expenses consist of costs for product formulation and chemical analysis.      R D expenses in 2008 increased by $130.7 million or 22%,
compared to 2007, due primarily to increased clinical study expenses of $75.2 million primarily in the antiviral and cardiovascular areas, as well as increased compensation and benefit expenses of $50.7 million due primarily to higher
headcount.      R D expenses in 2007 increased by $207.2 million or 54%, compared to 2006, due primarily to increased compensation and
benefit expenses of $65.2 million due largely to higher headcount, increased clinical study  
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

expenses of $58.6 million and increased contract service expenses of $19.6 million relating to clinical, product development and research activities in our
cardiovascular programs. In addition, we paid a $20.0 million up-front license fee to LG Life Sciences, Ltd. (LGLS) and a $13.5 million license related fee to PARI GmbH (PARI) in 2007, both of which we expensed as there were no future alternative
uses for these technologies.      In general, significant collaboration payments, like those made to LGLS and PARI, will cause our R D
expenses to fluctuate period over period.      In 2009, we expect R D expenses to increase over 2008 levels due to increased spending on
our internal and collaborative R D efforts as we anticipate progressing our product candidates into more advanced clinical studies as well as adding more clinical development programs to our pipeline.       Selling, General and Administrative Expenses       The
following table summarizes the period over period changes in our SG A expenses over the last three years (in thousands):       
    SG A expenses for 2008 increased by $91.6 million or 13%, compared to 2007, due primarily to
increased compensation and benefit expenses of $41.6 million due largely to higher headcount, increased marketing and promotional expenses of $19.9 million to support our expanded commercial operations, increased consulting and support services
expenses of $13.0 million related to the growth in our business, costs of $12.4 million associated with certain employee termination related disputes in our international operations as well as increased infrastructure and technology expenses of
$11.7 million. The increase in 2008 compared to 2007 was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense of $24.8 million due primarily to the higher expense associated with unvested stock options that we had assumed from Myogen,
including accelerated stock-based compensation expenses related to certain Myogen employee terminations during 2007.      SG A expenses for
2007 increased by $132.1 million or 23%, compared to 2006. The increase was due primarily to an increase in compensation and benefits expenses of $79.6 million due largely to higher headcount, as well as an increase in marketing and promotional
expenses of $20.0 million in the antiviral and cardiovascular areas, including those related to our launch of Letairis for the treatment of PAH.      In 2009, we expect SG A expenses to remain essentially consistent with 2008 SG A expenses. We believe that our 2008 organizational and geographic expansion activities will provide the appropriate infrastructure to support our
business in 2009.       Purchased In-process Research and Development Expenses       In connection with our acquisitions of Myogen Inc. (Myogen) and Corus Pharma, Inc. (Corus) in 2006, we recorded purchased IPR D expenses of $2.06
billion and $335.6 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

   The purchased IPR D expense for Myogen represented the estimated fair value of Myogen s
incomplete R D programs that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition. A summary of these programs at the acquisition date, updated
for subsequent changes in status of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value (in millions)     
 
  Ambrisentan  
      
  An orally active, non-sulfonamide, propanoic acid-class, endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) for the treatment of PAH.  
      
  Phase 3 clinical trials were completed prior to the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in December 2006 and, in June 2007, the FDA approved Letairis for the treatment of PAH in the
United States. Additionally, in March 2007, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) validated the marketing authorization application for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, filed by our collaboration partner, GSK. In April 2008, the European
Commission granted GSK marketing authorization for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, which is marketed under the name Volibris by GSK.  
      
  $  
  1,413.7   

Darusentan  
      
  An orally active ETA-selective ERA for the treatment of resistant hypertension.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical development as of the acquisition date and the date of this filing.  
      
  $  
   644.5   
    The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach,
which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 14%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Myogen s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with Myogen s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. We compensated for the differing phases of
development of ambrisentan and darusentan by probability-adjusting our estimation of the expected future cash flows associated with each program. We then determined at that time the present value of the expected future cash flows using the discount
rate of 14%. The projected cash flows from the ambrisentan and darusentan programs were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the programs considering their stages of development; the time and
resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related product candidates; the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound
such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.      For the purpose of estimating the fair value of the ambrisentan program, we estimated that the program was approximately 78% complete as of the acquisition date, based on estimated time and cost to complete, as Phase
3 clinical trials had been completed. As of the acquisition date, we estimated that we would incur future R D costs of approximately $35 million to $45 million from the date of acquisition through and including the year when commercialization
was expected to occur. Material net cash inflows were estimated to begin in 2009 for ambrisentan, assuming the necessary regulatory approvals would be received and the product would be successfully commercialized by that date.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   For the purpose of estimating the fair value of the darusentan program, we estimated that the program was
approximately 35% complete as of the acquisition date, based on estimated time and cost to complete, and remaining efforts would include the completion of Phase 3 clinical development as well as preparing for and filing an NDA with the FDA. As of
the acquisition date, we estimated that we would incur future R D costs of approximately $130 million to $140 million from the date of acquisition through and including the year when commercialization was expected to occur. Material net cash
inflows were estimated to begin in 2012 for darusentan, assuming the necessary regulatory approvals would be received and the product would be successfully commercialized by that date.      The remaining efforts for completing the darusentan IPR D program consist primarily of clinical trials, the cost, length and success of which are
extremely difficult to predict, and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. Numerous risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials and the risk
of failing to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. Feedback from regulatory authorities or results from clinical trials might require modifications to or delays in later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. We
cannot be certain that darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Future
discussions with regulatory agencies will determine the amount of data needed and timelines for review, which may differ materially from current projections. Darusentan may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic
decision to discontinue development of darusentan if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects
for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of this project will materialize as estimated. For these
reasons, among others, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.      The purchased IPR D expense for Corus represented
the estimated fair value of Corus s incomplete aztreonam for inhalation solution for CF R D program that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed
upon acquisition. A description of this program at the acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes in status of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value (in millions)    
 
  Aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF  
      
  Aztreonam formulation for inhalation to be used against Gram-negative bacteria that cause lung infections in patients with CF.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical trials as of the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in November 2007. In September 2008, we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that the
FDA will not approve our NDA for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical study. In November 2008, we filed a request for a formal dispute resolution with
the FDA. In February 2009, in response to our appeal, the FDA notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our NDA. We have also
submitted a marketing authorization application in the European Union and received notice of acceptance and priority review by Health Canada for approval in Canada. We are still awaiting responses from the respective regulatory bodies.  
      
  $  
  335.6   
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

   The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach, which
discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 16%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Corus s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with Corus s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. The projected cash flows from the aztreonam for
inhalation solution program were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the program considering its stage of development; the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of the
related product candidate; the life of the potential commercialized product and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks
related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets. Corus s two other early stage candidates were not included in the valuation of purchased IPR D because they were early stage projects that did
not have identifiable revenues and expenses associated with them.      For the purpose of estimating the fair value of the aztreonam for
inhalation solution program, we estimated that the program was approximately 71% complete as of the acquisition date, based on estimated time and cost to complete, and remaining efforts would include the completion of Phase 3 clinical development as
well as preparing for and filing an NDA with the FDA. As of the acquisition date, we estimated that we would incur future R D costs of approximately $30 million to $35 million from the date of acquisition through and including the year when
commercialization was expected to occur. Material net cash inflows were estimated to begin in 2009 for the aztreonam for inhalation solution program, assuming the necessary regulatory approvals would be received and the product would be successfully
commercialized by that date.      The remaining efforts for completing Corus s IPR D program consist primarily of clinical trials, the
cost, length and success of which are extremely difficult to predict. Numerous risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trial and the risk of failing
to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. We cannot be certain that aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether marketing approvals
will have significant limitations on its use. Aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of aztreonam for inhalation
solution for the treatment of CF if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue
growth may be adversely impacted. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of the project will materialize as estimated. For these reasons, among others,
actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.      In connection with our acquisition of the cicletanine assets from Navitas
Assets, LLC, we recorded purchased IPR D expense of $10.9 million during 2008. As we do not consider the acquisition to be a material transaction, we have not made further disclosures regarding the related purchased IPR D.       Interest and Other Income, Net       We recorded interest
and other income, net, of $59.4 million, $109.8 million and $134.6 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 was due primarily to increased costs related to our hedging activities of $32.3 million, net
foreign currency losses of $15.7 million and decreased interest income of $7.5 million due primarily to lower interest rates, partially offset by the write-downs of certain securities recorded in 2007 and which are mentioned below. The decrease in
2007 compared to 2006 was primarily attributable to the lower average cash and investment balances over 2006, as well as the write-down of $7.0 million and $1.8 million relating to the other-than-temporary impairment of our investments in Achillion
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the asset-backed commercial paper of a structured investment vehicle, respectively.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    Provision for Income Taxes       Our provision for income taxes was $723.3 million, $655.0 million and $551.8 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2008 effective tax rate of 26.5% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due
primarily to tax credits, the resolution of certain tax positions with taxing authorities and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, offset by state taxes.
     The 2007 effective tax rate of 28.9% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to tax credits and certain
operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, offset by state taxes.      Included in our operating income in 2006 were pre-tax charges of $335.6 million and $2.06 billion for the purchased IPR D expenses associated with our Corus and Myogen acquisitions, respectively. We did not record any income tax benefit
related to the purchased IPR D expenses as such amounts are non-deductible. The 2006 effective tax rate of (86.5)% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to tax credits and certain operating earnings from non-U.S.
subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, offset by our federal tax non-deductible purchased IPR D expenses and state taxes.      In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing a minimum
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006.      On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and increased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $14.1 million with a corresponding charge to the opening balance of accumulated deficit, as permitted under FIN 48. In addition, we
reclassified $68.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits from short-term income taxes payable and noncurrent deferred tax assets to long-term income taxes payable. As of the date of adoption, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax
benefits of $86.2 million recorded primarily in long-term income taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including accrued liabilities related to interest of $4.0 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $78.0 million, if
recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we have continued to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax
provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had total federal, state and foreign
unrecognized tax benefits of $119.3 million and $111.7 million, respectively, including interest of $10.1 million and $8.3 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007, $111.1 million and $103.5
million, respectively, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition.      During 2008, we reached agreement
with the IRS on several issues related to the examinations of our federal income tax returns for 2003 and 2004. As a result, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by $30.0 million.      As of December 31, 2008, we believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $56.0 million in the
next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash
settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our working capital and our cash flow activities as of the end of, and for each of, the last three years (in thousands):   
   
     Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities       Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $3.24 billion at December 31, 2008, an increase of $517.2 million or 19% from
December 31, 2007. This increase was primarily attributable to:       
     
    These increases were partially offset by our repurchases of $1.97 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program during 2008.   
  Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.72 billion at December 31, 2007, an increase of $1.33 billion or 96% from
December 31, 2006. The increase of $1.33 billion was primarily attributable to:       
     
    These increases were partially offset by:       

our repurchases of $487.5 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs in 2007;          

our repayment of all remaining amounts due under our term loan of $99.0 million in 2007; and          

capital expenditures of $76.5 million relating to the expansion of our facilities to accommodate our growth in 2007.          Working Capital       Working capital at December 31,
2008 was $3.08 billion, an increase of $787.3 million from December 31, 2007. This increase was primarily attributable to:       

an increase of $327.9 million in inventories due primarily to the purchases of efavirenz at the estimated market value of efavirenz from BMS;

an increase of $228.3 million in accounts receivable, net, driven primarily by increased product sales; and          

a $618.1 million increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities.         These increases were partially offset by a $310.9 million increase in accounts payable due primarily to the purchases of efavirenz at the estimated
market value of Sustiva from BMS.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

   Working capital at December 31, 2007 was $2.29 billion compared to $1.66 billion at
December 31, 2006. Significant factors that resulted in an increase in working capital in 2007 were:       

$235.1 million increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities due primarily to cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from
issuances of our common stock under our employee stock plans, which were partially offset by our repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program, the repayment of our term loan and capital spending;      

$215.1 million increase in prepaid taxes related to intercompany profits between our U.S. parent company and our joint venture; and          
     Cash Provided by Operating Activities       Cash provided
by operating activities of $2.20 billion in 2008 primarily related to net income of $2.01 billion which was adjusted for non-cash items such as $209.5 million of tax benefits from employee stock plans and $153.4 million of stock-based compensation
expense. This was partially offset by $191.9 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises which we reclassified to cash provided by financing activities in accordance with SFAS 123R and $66.9 million of cash outflow related to changes
in operating assets and liabilities.      Cash provided by operating activities of $1.77 billion in 2007 was comprised primarily of $1.62
billion in net income which was adjusted for non-cash items such as $184.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $133.1 million of deferred income taxes and $110.7 million of tax benefits related to employee stock plans and $76.3 million of
excess tax benefits from stock option exercises. This was partially offset by a $236.0 million net cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities.      Cash provided by operating activities of $1.22 billion in 2006 was comprised primarily of $1.19 billion in net loss which was adjusted for non-cash items such as our $2.39 billion purchased IPR D expense,
stock-based compensation expense of $133.8 million and $127.6 million of tax benefits related to employee stock plans and $95.3 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises. This was partially offset by a $225.1 million net cash
outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities.       Cash Used in Investing Activities       Cash used in investing activities in 2008 primarily related to purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities as well as capital
expenditures. Cash used in investing activities in 2007 primarily related to purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, capital expenditures and our acquisition of Nycomed Limited. Cash used in investing activities in 2006
primarily related to purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, our acquisitions of Myogen, Raylo Chemicals Inc. (Raylo) and Corus, as well as capital expenditures.      We used $178.8 million of cash in investing activities in 2008 compared to $1.30 billion in 2007. The decrease was due primarily to more cash being used
in financing activities during 2008 compared to 2007 to fund our stock repurchases.      We used $1.30 billion of cash for investing activities
in 2007 compared to $1.74 billion in 2006, a decrease of $436.9 million. The decrease was due primarily to our acquisitions of Myogen, Raylo and Corus for a total of $2.74 billion in 2006, as well as more cash used in the purchases, sales and
maturities of marketable securities activities during 2007 compared to 2006.      Capital expenditures made in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related
primarily to the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, upgrades to our facilities and spending on computer and laboratory equipment, as well as enterprise  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

software, to accommodate our continued business growth. In 2007, capital expenditures also included the construction of a new building at our Foster City,
California headquarters. In 2006, capital expenditures also included the purchase of two buildings that we previously leased as well as construction costs of the new building at our Foster City, California headquarters. As of December 31, 2008,
we had capital expenditure commitments of $292.7 million, which included the purchase of an office building and land, as well as three aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010 and 2013, both of which are discussed below. We expect to fulfill
such commitments from funds generated from our operating cash flows.      In October 2008, we signed a purchase and sale agreement to purchase
an office building and approximately 30 acres of land located in Foster City, California, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $137.5 million. We made an initial refundable deposit of $5.0 million into escrow in October,
and in January 2009, the remaining balance of $132.5 million was paid into escrow upon closing the transaction. As part of closing, the purchase and sale agreement was amended to allow for a holdback in escrow of up to $15.5 million of the purchase
price, to be released depending on the outcome of certain requirements mutually agreed to at closing.      In August 2007, as a result of a
review of the terms under our existing corporate aircraft leases and upon consideration of the various alternatives available to us upon their expiration, we entered into agreements to purchase three aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010
and 2013. The aggregate purchase price under the purchase agreements was $98.6 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had made deposits totaling $7.4 million which has been recorded in other noncurrent assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Future deposits due under the terms of the purchase agreements are as follows: $23.0 million in 2009, $31.1 million in 2010, $4.1 million in 2011, $20.7 million in 2012 and $12.4 million in 2013. We have the option to terminate the purchase
agreements, subject to a maximum payment of 7.5% of the fully equipped price of the aircraft.       Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities
      Cash used in financing activities in 2008 was $1.54 billion, driven primarily by the $1.97 billion used to repurchase our common stock
under our stock repurchase program. The cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $246.1 million that we received from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans, as well as $191.9 million of excess tax benefits from stock
option exercises. In October 2007, our Board authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $3.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately
negotiated purchases or other means. This stock repurchase program expires in December 2010. Under this stock repurchase program, in 2008 we repurchased shares in the open market and also entered into two structured accelerated share repurchase
transactions with third parties which are described below.      In February 2008, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement
with a financial institution to repurchase $500.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of this accelerated share repurchase agreement with the financial institution, we paid $500.0 million to the financial institution
to settle the initial purchase transaction and received 9,373,548 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.34 per share. In June 2008, upon maturity of the agreement and in accordance with the share delivery provisions of the agreement, we
received an additional 239,612 shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the final purchase price
of our common stock from this accelerated share repurchase was $52.01 per share.      In October 2008, we entered into an accelerated share
repurchase transaction with a financial institution to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of this accelerated share repurchase agreement with the financial institution, we paid $750.0 million to
the financial institution to settle the initial purchase transaction and received 14,874,519 shares of our common stock at a price of $50.42 per share. On or before April 2009, subject to extension under certain circumstances as well as the maximum
and minimum share delivery provisions of the agreement, we may receive additional shares from the financial institution depending on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a  
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

specified period less a predetermined discount per share. After making the initial payment of $750.0 million, we are not obligated to deliver any cash or
shares to the financial institution except in certain limited circumstances in which case the method of delivery (cash or shares of our common stock) would be at our discretion.      As of December 31, 2008, the remaining authorized amount of stock repurchases that may be made under the stock repurchase program which expires in
December 2010 was $998.1 million.      Cash used in financing activities in 2007 was $267.4 million, driven primarily by the $487.5 million
used to repurchase our common stock under our 2006 stock repurchase program, $99.0 million used to pay off all remaining amounts due on our term loan, partially offset by the proceeds from issuance of stock under employee stock plans of $243.3
million as well as $76.3 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises.      Cash provided by financing activities in 2006 was
$649.3 million, driven primarily by the $587.6 million of net proceeds generated from the issuance of our convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes) and the convertible senior notes due in 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) and
related transactions. In addition, we received proceeds from the issuance of stock under employee stock plans of $167.9 million, as well as $95.3 million of excess tax benefits from employee stock option exercises. These cash inflows were partially
offset by $201.0 million in principal repayments on our term loan during 2006.       Other Information       In December 2007, we, along with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation (GBIC), entered into an amended and restated
credit agreement, which superseded the existing revolving credit agreement, with a syndicate of banks to increase the credit facility to $1.25 billion. The amended and restated credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and
letters of credit. Under the terms of the amended and restated credit agreement, we may borrow initially up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. Loans under the amended and restated credit agreement bear interest at either
(i) LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 20 basis points to 32 basis points or (ii) the base rate, as defined in the amended and restated credit agreement. We can prepay any outstanding borrowings at any time in whole or in part without
penalty or premium, and any outstanding interest or principal would be due and payable in December 2012. In connection with the amended and restated credit agreement, we entered into a parent guaranty agreement under which we guaranteed the
obligations of GBIC under the amended and restated credit agreement. We expect to use the proceeds of any loans under the amended and restated credit agreement for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. As of December 31,
2008, we had a $3.7 million letter of credit outstanding under the amended and restated credit agreement.      We believe that our existing
capital resources, supplemented by cash generated from our operations, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the following:

the commercial performance of our current and future products;          

the progress and scope of our R D efforts, including preclinical studies and clinical trials;          

the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews;          

the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities;          

administrative expenses;          

the possibility of acquiring additional manufacturing capabilities or office facilities;          

the possibility of acquiring other companies or new products;          

the establishment of additional collaborative relationships with other companies; and          

costs associated with the defense, settlement and adverse results of litigation and government investigations.            
   63   

Table of Contents  

   We may in the future require additional funding, which could be in the form of proceeds from equity or
debt financings. If such funding is required, we cannot assure that it will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.       Off Balance Sheet
Arrangements       We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are currently material or reasonably likely to be material to our
consolidated financial position or results of operations.       Contractual Obligations       Our contractual obligations consist of debt obligations, operating leases as well as purchase obligations primarily in the form of capital commitments,
purchase obligations for active pharmaceutical ingredients and inventory related items and clinical trials contracts. The following table summarizes our significant enforceable and legally binding obligations, future commitments and obligations
related to all contracts that we are likely to continue regardless of the fact that certain of these obligations may be cancelable as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):       

(2)  
  At December 31, 2008, we had firm capital project commitments of approximately $292.7 million primarily relating to the expansion of our facilities and infrastructure as well
as purchase commitments of three corporate aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010 and 2013.     

(3)  
  At December 31, 2008, we had firm purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory related items. The amounts related to active
pharmaceutical ingredients only represent minimum purchase requirements. Actual purchases are expected to significantly exceed these amounts.     

(4)  
  In addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing and development programs. Payments under these
agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have
not been recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and have not been included in the table above.     

(5)  
  At December 31, 2008, we had several clinical studies in various clinical trial phases. Our most significant clinical trial expenditures are to CROs. Although most of our
contracts with CROs are cancelable, we generally have not cancelled such contracts. These amounts reflect commitments based on existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or termination of, existing contracts and anticipated
or potential new contracts.        We had total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $138.4 million as of
December 31, 2008. We believe that it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $66.0 million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS around certain of our uncertain
tax  
       
   64   

Table of Contents  

positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash
settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Such amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable and long-term deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and have not been included in the table
above.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In June 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock  (EITF 07-5). EITF 07-5 provides guidance on how to determine if
certain instruments (or embedded features) are considered indexed to our own stock, including instruments similar to our Notes, convertible note hedges, warrants to purchase our stock and the forward contract that we entered into as part of our
accelerated share repurchase transaction in February 2008 and which was completed in June 2008 and the forward contract that we entered into as part of our accelerated share repurchase transaction in October 2008. EITF 07-5 requires companies to use
a two-step approach to evaluate an instrument s contingent exercise provisions and settlement provisions in determining whether the instrument is considered to be indexed to its own stock and exempt from the application of SFAS
No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Although EITF 07-5 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, any outstanding instrument at the date of adoption will require a
retrospective application of the accounting through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings upon adoption. We do not expect the adoption of EITF 07-5 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.     In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon
Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  (FSP APB 14-1). FSP APB 14-1 addresses instruments commonly referred to as Instrument C from EITF 90-19, which requires the issuer to settle the principal amount in cash and the conversion
spread in cash or net shares at the issuer s option. FSP APB 14-1 requires that issuers of these instruments account for their liability and equity components separately by bifurcating the conversion option from the debt instrument, classifying
the conversion option in equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. FSP APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and
interim periods within those fiscal years, and requires retrospective application to all periods presented. Early application is not permitted. We expect that the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial
position and results of operations. Based on the requirements of FSP APB 14-1, we estimate that if FSP APB 14-1 was effective for the current and comparative periods, we would have reported additional interest expense related to our Notes of
approximately $53.2 million, $50.0 million and $32.7 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting
standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interests, changes in a parent s ownership interest and
the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS 160 also establishes additional reporting requirements that identify and distinguish between the ownership interest of the parent and the interest
of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS 160 is effective for interim periods and fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Upon adopting SFAS 160, we plan to reclassify the noncontrolling interest, or minority interest, on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets from liabilities to stockholders  equity and to present the noncontrolling interest, or minority interest, on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest, which will be a
component of total consolidated net income (loss).      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business
Combinations  (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree in a business combination. SFAS 141R also
provides  
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business combination; requires purchased IPR D to be capitalized at fair value as
intangible assets at the time of acquisition; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; expands the definition of what constitutes a business; and requires the acquirer
to disclose information that users may need to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. SFAS 141R is effective on a prospective basis and will impact business combination transactions for which the acquisition date
occurs after December 15, 2008. Depending on the nature and magnitude of our future business combination transactions, SFAS 141R may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and/or results of operations.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK          Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the United States, Canada and
Ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the United States, including Europe and Australia. As a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak
economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. Our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which is
the Euro. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales
increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of
business.      A significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into foreign currency exchange
forward contracts and foreign currency exchange option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales. We also hedge certain monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. In general, the market risks of these
contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged.      In recent years, foreign currency exchange
fluctuations have primarily had a positive impact to product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the foreign currency fluctuations have been moderated by our hedging program.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair
values of our open foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts at December 31, 2008. All contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. Weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of U.S. dollars per foreign currency.
Fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at December 31, 2008 (notional amounts and fair values in U.S. dollars in thousands):       
    The total notional amount of $2.39 billion and total fair value relating to our net asset of $90.7
million on our open foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts at December 31, 2008 compares with a total notional amount of $1.61 billion and a total fair value relating to our net liability of $11.5 million on our open foreign
currency exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2007.       Interest Rate Risk       Our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. With
respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government.
The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows:       

safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk;          

liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and          

competitive after-tax rate of return.            
   67   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest
generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at December 31, 2008 (dollars in thousands):       
     
     Credit Risk       A portion of our marketable securities are held in auction rate securities. In 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for auction rate securities whose underlying assets are comprised of student loans. As of December 31, 2008, we
held approximately $122.4 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities whose underlying assets were comprised of student loans. Our auction rate securities comprised approximately 4% of our
total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2008. Most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated AAA, consistent with the high quality rating required
by our investment policy. If auctions continue to fail for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those
securities. However, we believe that, based on our total cash and marketable securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we are able to hold these securities until there is
a recovery in the auction market, which may be at final maturity. As a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital.      In light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continued to review our cash equivalents and marketable
securities carefully as well as invest prudently in 2008. We believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity of investments sufficient to
meet cash flow requirements, has protected us from much of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other opportunities such as our $500.0 million and $750.0
million accelerated share repurchases.      Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2008 was $1.02 billion, compared to
$795.1 million at December 31, 2007. The growth in our accounts receivable balances was due primarily to higher product sales of our antiviral products in the United States and Europe. Our European product sales to government-owned or
supported customers in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. This has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to
the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. This, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. Sales to customers in these countries in Europe that tend to pay relatively slowly have
increased, and may continue to further increase, the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. At December 31, 2008, our accounts receivable for Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain totaled $543.8 million, of which
$191.0 million was more than 120 days past due. To  
       
   68   

Table of Contents  

date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable, and we believe that substantially all of our
accounts receivable balances are collectible. We perform credit evaluations of our customers  financial condition and generally have not required collateral.       

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The
financial statements required by this item are set forth beginning at page 78 of this report and are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          

(a)  
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures        An
evaluation as of December 31, 2008 was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
 disclosure controls and procedures,  which are defined under Securities and Exchange (SEC) rules as controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the
reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Based upon that evaluation,
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.       

(b)  
  Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting        Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal control system is designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed,
have inherent limitations and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the internal control system are met.      Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective
as of December 31, 2008.      Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has audited our Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have issued a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Their report on the audit of internal control over
financial reporting appears below.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Gilead Sciences, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Gilead Sciences, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2008 consolidated financial statements of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and our report dated February 25, 2009
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 25, 2009         
   70   

Table of Contents  

(c)  
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting        Our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2008, and has concluded that there was
no change during such quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not applicable.       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         The information required by this Item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated by reference to the sections of our Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with our
2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement) under the headings  Nominees,   Board Committees and Meetings ,  Executive Officers,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance.       Our written Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors and employees, including our executive officers, including
without limitation our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics is available on our website at http://www.gilead.com in the
Investors section under  Corporate Governance.  Changes to or waivers of the Code of Ethics will be disclosed on the same website. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment to,
or waiver of, any provision of the Code of Ethics by disclosing such information on the same website.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information required by
this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings  Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,   Compensation Committee Report, 
and  Compensation of Non-Employee Board Members.        

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement under the headings  Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.        

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement under the headings  Nominees  and  Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions. 

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The
information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement under the heading  Principal Accountant Fees and Services.          
   71   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a) The
following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:      (1) Index list to Consolidated Financial
Statements:       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  79   

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  80   

Consolidated Statements of Operations    
      
  81   

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  82   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  84   
    (2) Schedule II is included on page 128 of this report. All other schedules
are omitted because they are not required or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.      (3) Exhibits.      The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference:       

Exhibit Footnote    
     
     Exhibit Number    
     
     Description of Document     

(1)    
     
    3.1    
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant   

(2)  
     
    3.2  
     
  Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(3)  
     
    3.3  
     
  Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(4)  
     
    3.4  
     
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended and restated on October 24, 2008   

4.1  
     
  Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1, Exhibit 3.2, Exhibit 3.3 and Exhibit 3.4   

(5)  
     
    4.2  
     
  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC, dated October 21, 1999   

(6)  
     
    4.3  
     
  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated
October 29, 2003   

(7)  
     
    4.4  
     
  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated May 11, 2006

(8)  
     
    4.5  
     
  Indenture related to the Convertible Senior Notes, due 2011, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (including form of 0.50% Convertible Senior Note due 2011),
dated April 25, 2006   

(8)  
     
    4.6  
     
  Indenture related to the Convertible Senior Notes, due 2013, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (including form of 0.625% Convertible Senior Note due
2013), dated April 25, 2006   
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

73   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Footnote    
     
     Exhibit Number    
     
     Description of Document     

*(22)  
     
  10.22  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended through May 9, 2007   

*(23)  
     
  10.23  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan Basic Plan Document   

*(23)  
     
  10.24  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan Adoption Agreement   

*(23)  
     
  10.25  
     
  Addendum to the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan   

*  
     
  10.26  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated on October 23, 2008   

*  
     
  10.27  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, as amended on December 15, 2008   

*(16)  
     
  10.28  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. Corporate Bonus Plan   

*(16)  
     
  10.29  
     
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. Code Section 162(m) Bonus Plan   

*(24)  
     
  10.30  
     
  2009 Base Salaries for the Named Executive Officers   

*(17)  
     
  10.31  
     
  Offer Letter dated October 4, 2007 between Registrant and Caroline Dorsa   

*(15)  
     
  10.32  
     
  Offer Letter dated April 16, 2008 between Registrant and Robin Washington   

*(13)  
     
  10.33  
     
  Form of Indemnity Agreement entered into between the Registrant and its directors and executive officers   

*(13)  
     
  10.34  
     
  Form of Employee Proprietary Information and Invention Agreement entered into between Registrant and certain of its officers and key employees   

*(18)  
     
  10.35  
     
  Form of Employee Proprietary Information and Invention Agreement entered into between Registrant and certain of its officers and key employees (revised in September 2006)   

+(20)  
     
  10.36  
     
  Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement by and among Registrant, Gilead Holdings, LLC, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, E.R. Squibb   Sons, L.L.C., and Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead
Sciences, LLC, dated September 28, 2006   

+(17)  
     
  10.37  
     
  Commercialization Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, dated December 10, 2007   

+(13)  
     
  10.38  
     
  Letter Agreement between Registrant and Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic (IOCB) and REGA Stichting v.z.w. (REGA, and together with
IOCB, IOCB/REGA), dated September 23, 1991   

+(25)  
     
  10.39  
     
  Amendment Agreement between Registrant and IOCB/REGA, dated October 25, 1993   

(26)  
     
  10.40  
     
  Amendment Agreement between Registrant and IOCB/REGA, dated December 27, 2000   

(20)  
     
  10.41  
     
  Sixth Amendment Agreement to the License Agreement, between the IOCB and the K. U. Leuven Research and Development and Registrant, dated August 18, 2006   

+(20)  
     
  10.42  
     
  Development and License Agreement among Registrant and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., dated September 27, 1996   

+(27)  
     
  10.43  
     
  First Amendment and Supplement dated November 15, 2005 to the Development and Licensing Agreement between Registrant, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffman-La Roche Inc. dated September 27, 1996

+(28)  
     
  10.44  
     
  Exclusive License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Glaxo Group Limited, The Wellcome Foundation Limited, Glaxo Wellcome Inc. and Emory University,
dated May 6, 1999   

+(29)  
     
  10.45  
     
  Royalty Sale Agreement by and among Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust   Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of Royalty Pharma, dated July
18, 2005   
       
   74   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Footnote    
     
     Exhibit Number    
     
     Description of Document     

+(29)  
     
  10.46  
     
  Amended and Restated License Agreement between Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust   Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of Royalty Pharma,
dated July 21, 2005.   

+(30)  
     
  10.47  
     
  License Agreement between Japan Tobacco Inc. and Registrant, dated March 22, 2005   

+(31)  
     
  10.48  
     
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Myogen, Inc.) and Abbott Deutschland Holding GmbH dated October 8, 2001   

+(31)  
     
  10.49  
     
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Myogen, Inc.) and Abbott Laboratories, dated June 30, 2003   

+(32)  
     
  10.50  
     
  Master Clinical and Commercial Supply Agreement between Gilead World Markets, Limited, Registrant and Patheon Inc., dated January 1, 2003   

+(29)  
     
  10.51  
     
  Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd., dated
July 17, 2003   

+(33)  
     
  10.52  
     
  Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., dated May 10,
2007   

+  
     
  10.53  
     
  Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., dated December 5,
2008   

+(19)  
     
  10.54  
     
  Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Registrant and Ampac Fine Chemicals LLC, dated March 6, 2008   

+(27)  
     
  10.55  
     
  Restated and Amended Toll Manufacturing Agreement between Gilead Sciences Limited, Registrant and ALTANA Pharma Oranienburg GmbH, dated November 7, 2005   

+(10)  
     
  10.56  
     
  Emtricitabine Manufacturing Supply Agreement between Gilead Sciences Limited and Degussa AG, dated June 6, 2006   

10.57   
     
  Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions between Electronics for Imaging, Inc. and Registrant, dated October 23, 2008, as amended   

21.1   
     
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

23.1   
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

24.1   
     
  Power of Attorney, reference is made to the signature page   

31.1     
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended   

31.2     
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended   

32.1**    
     
  Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code
(18 U.S.C.  1350)   

(1)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(2)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(3)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(4)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(5)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 22, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.           
   75   

Table of Contents  

(6)  
  Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(8)  
  Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 25, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(9)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(10)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K also filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(11)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 21, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(13)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-55680), as amended, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(14)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(15)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(16)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on February 22, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(17)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(18)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(19)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(20)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(21)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K first filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(22)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(23)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(24)  
  Information is included in Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 21, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(25)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(26)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(27)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(28)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A filed on November 3, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

(29)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(30)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.     
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

(32)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(33)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 7, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.         

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

**  
  This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by reference into any
filing of Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such
filing.     

+  
  Certain confidential portions of this Exhibit were omitted by means of marking such portions with an asterisk (the Mark). This Exhibit has been filed separately with the Secretary
of the SEC without the Mark pursuant to Registrant s Application Requesting Confidential Treatment under Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.           
   77   

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007,
and 2006          CONTENTS        

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  79   

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  80   

Consolidated Statements of Operations    
      
  81   

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  82   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  84   
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

      R  EPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Gilead Sciences, Inc. as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Gilead Sciences, Inc. at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information
set forth therein.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 25, 2009         
   79   

Table of Contents  

      G  ILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Balance Sheets        (in
thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

      G  ILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Operations        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

      G  ILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

      G  ILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

      G  ILEAD SCIENCES, INC.         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

1.   
   ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a
biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster
City, California, we have operations in North America, Europe and Australia. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life threatening diseases to market. Currently, we market Truvada (emtricitabine
and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), Atripla (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
infection; Hepsera (adefovir dipivoxil) and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection; AmBisome (amphotericin B, liposome for injection for the treatment of severe fungal infection; Letairis (ambrisentan) for the treatment of
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); Vistide (cidofovir injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection; and Flolan (epoprostenol sodium) for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffman-La
Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu (oseltamivir phosphate) for the treatment of influenza, under a royalty paying collaborative agreement with us. We perform manufacturing activities for Macugen (pegaptamib sodium for injection) under our
manufacturing agreement with OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OSI), who sells Macugen for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration, under a royalty paying collaborative agreement with us.       Basis of Presentation       The accompanying Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of Gilead, our wholly-owned subsidiaries and our joint ventures with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS), for which we are the primary beneficiary as determined under Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  (FIN 46R). We record a minority interest in our Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect BMS s interest in the joint ventures.
Significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of companies acquired by us from the date of each acquisition.       Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments       The preparation of these Consolidated
Financial Statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an
ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including critical accounting policies or estimates related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, prepaid royalties, clinical trial accruals, our tax provision and stock-based
compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.       Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenue from product sales when there is persuasive evidence an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Upon

84   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 recognition of revenue from product sales, provisions are made for government rebates, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, certain
distributor fees and estimated future returns of products that may expire, as appropriate.       Items Deducted from Gross Product Sales        Government Rebates       We estimate
amounts payable by us to government managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates, new information regarding changes in these
programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and, for our U.S. product sales, the channel inventory data as obtained from our
major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us are recorded in other accrued liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase
our products through wholesalers at a lower contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower contractual government price, which we record as allowances against accounts
receivable.       Cash Discounts       We estimate cash discounts based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates and our expectations regarding future utilization rates.       Distributor Fees       Under our inventory management agreements with our significant U.S. wholesalers, we
pay the wholesalers a fee primarily for the compliance of certain contractually determined covenants such as the maintenance of agreed upon inventory levels. These distributor fees are based on a contractually determined fixed percentage of sales.
      Product Returns       We do
not provide our customers with a general right of product return, but permit returns if the product is damaged or defective when received by the customer, or in the case of product sold in the Unites States, if the product has expired. We will
accept product returns in the United States that have expired for one year after their expiration dates. Our estimates for expected returns of expired products are based primarily on an ongoing analysis of historical return patterns.       Royalty Revenues       Royalty revenue from distributor
sales of AmBisome is recognized in the month following the month in which the corresponding sales occur. Royalty revenue from sales of our other products is generally recognized when received, which is generally in the quarter following the quarter
in which the corresponding sales occur.       Contract and Other Revenues       Revenue from non-refundable up-front license fees and milestone payments where we continue to have obligations, such as through a development collaboration or an obligation to supply product, is recognized as
performance occurs and our obligations are completed. In accordance with the specific terms of Gilead s  
       
   85   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 obligations under these types of arrangements, revenue is recognized as the obligation is fulfilled or ratably over the development or manufacturing period.
Revenue associated with substantive at-risk milestones is recognized based upon the achievement of the milestones as defined in the respective agreements. Advance payments received in excess of amounts earned are classified as deferred revenue on
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Contract and other revenues include net revenue from product distribution services, which is recognized
when there is persuasive evidence an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19,
 Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent , we record product distribution services revenue, net of the supply price paid to the manufacturer/licensor, distribution fees paid to specialty pharmacies and allowances for
product returns, cash discounts and government rebates, in contract and other revenues in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Shipping and
Handling Costs       Shipping and handling costs incurred for inventory purchases and product shipments are recorded in cost of goods sold in
our Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Research and Development Expenses       Major components of research and development (R D) expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation,
clinical studies performed by contract research organizations (CROs), materials and supplies, licenses and fees and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities related costs. Our R D activities are also separated into three
main categories: research, clinical development and pharmaceutical development. Research costs typically consist of preclinical and toxicology costs. Clinical development costs include costs for Phase 1, 2, 3 and 4 clinical trials. Pharmaceutical
development costs consist of expenses incurred in connection with product formulation and chemical analysis.      We charge R D costs,
including clinical study costs, to expense when incurred, consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 2,  Accounting for Research and Development Costs . Clinical study costs are a significant component of
R D expenses. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third party CROs. We monitor levels of performance under each significant contract including the extent of patient enrollment and other activities through communications with our CROs,
and we accrue costs for clinical studies to reflect the level of effort expended by each CRO.      All of our material CRO contracts are
terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point of termination. Amounts paid in advance related to incomplete services will be
refunded if a contract is terminated. Some contracts include additional termination payments that become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such additional termination payments are only recorded if a contract is terminated.       Advertising Expenses       We expense the costs of
advertising, including promotional expenses, as incurred. Advertising expenses were $96.2 million in 2008, $81.1 million in 2007 and $67.3 million in 2006.       Net Income (Loss) Per Share       Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares
of our common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share is calculated based on the  
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 weighted-average number of shares of our common stock outstanding and other dilutive securities outstanding during the period. The potential dilutive shares
of our common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options and equivalents (consisting primarily of performance shares) and the assumed exercise of warrants relating to the convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes)
and the convertible senior notes due in 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) are determined under the treasury stock method.      The
Notes are considered to be Instrument C securities as defined by EITF Issue No. 90-19,  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion  (EITF 90-19); therefore, only the conversion spread relating to the Notes is
included in our diluted net income (loss) per share calculation. The potential dilutive shares of our common stock resulting from the assumed settlement of the conversion spread of the Notes are determined under the method set forth in EITF 90-19.
Under such method, the settlement of the conversion spread of the Notes has a dilutive effect when the average market price of our common stock during the period exceeds $38.75 and $38.10 for the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes, respectively. The average
market price of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2006 did not exceed the conversion prices of the Notes. For the years ended 2008 and 2007, where the average market price of our common stock exceeded the conversion price of
either of our Notes, the dilutive effect is included in the table below.      Warrants relating to the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes have a
dilutive effect when the average market price of our common stock during the period exceeds the warrants  exercise prices of $50.80 and $53.90, respectively. The average market price of our common stock during the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006 did not exceed the warrants  exercise prices relating to the Notes.      Stock options to purchase approximately
11.4 million and 15.5 million weighted-average shares of our common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share
because the options  exercise prices were greater than the average market price of our common stock during these periods; therefore, their effect was antidilutive. Due to our net loss for 2006, approximately 38.4 million weighted-average
number of outstanding stock options and other common stock equivalents were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because their inclusion would have been antidilutive.      The following table is a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in
thousands):       
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Stock-Based Compensation       On January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123R), which requires that all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants
of stock options, be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on their fair values. SFAS 123R also requires the benefit of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows as a financing activity, rather than as an operating activity. We applied the modified prospective method, which requires that compensation expense be recorded for the vesting of all nonvested stock options and other stock-based awards at
the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS 123R. In addition, we calculated our pool of excess tax benefits available within additional paid-in capital (APIC) in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       We consider highly liquid
investments with insignificant interest rate risk and an original maturity of three months or less on the purchase date to be cash equivalents. We may enter into overnight repurchase agreements (repos) under which we purchase securities with an
obligation to resell them the following day. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are recorded at face value and reported as cash and cash equivalents. Under our investment policy, we may enter into repos with major banks and authorized
dealers provided that such repos are collateralized by U.S. government securities with a fair value of at least 102% of the fair value of securities sold to us. Other eligible instruments under our investment policy that are included in cash
equivalents include commercial paper, money market funds and other bank obligations.       Marketable and Nonmarketable Securities       We determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities, which consist primarily of debt securities and which include auction rate
securities and variable rate demand obligations, at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. All of our marketable securities are considered as available-for-sale and carried at estimated fair values and
reported in either cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities or long-term marketable securities. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from net income (loss) and are reported in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders  equity. Interest and other income, net, includes interest, dividends, amortization of purchase premiums and discounts, realized gains and losses on sales of securities and
other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of securities, if any. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. We regularly review all of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Our review
includes the consideration of the cause of the impairment, including the creditworthiness of the security issuers, the number of securities in an unrealized loss position, as well as the severity and duration of the unrealized losses. When we
determine that the decline in fair value of an investment is below our accounting basis and this decline is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the security we hold and record a loss for the amount of such decline.      As a result of entering into collaborations, from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We record these nonmarketable securities
at cost in other noncurrent assets, less any amounts for other-than-temporary impairment. We regularly review our investments for indicators of impairment. Investments in nonmarketable securities are not material for the periods presented.
      Concentrations of Risk       We are subject
to credit risk from our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities. Under our investment policy, we limit amounts invested in such securities by duration, industry group, investment type and  
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. We are not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk from these financial
instruments. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and a competitive after-tax
rate of return.      We are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales. The majority of our trade
accounts receivable arises from product sales in the United States and Europe. In certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain, our aggregated accounts receivable balances are significant. In most
cases, slow payment practices in these countries reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. This, in turn, may increase the financial risk related to certain of our customers. Sales to customers in these countries in
Europe that tend to pay relatively slowly have increased, and may continue to further increase, the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. At December 31, 2008, our accounts receivable for Greece, Italy, Portugal
and Spain totaled $543.8 million, of which $191.0 million was more than 120 days past due. At December 31, 2007, our accounts receivable for the same countries totaled $436.4 million, of which $147.6 million was more than 120 days past due. To
date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable and believe that all of our past due accounts receivable, net of allowances, as reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, are collectible.
We perform credit evaluations of our customers  financial conditions and generally have not required collateral.      Certain of the raw
materials that we utilize in our operations are obtained through single suppliers. Many of the raw materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. Since the suppliers of key components and raw materials must be named in a
new drug application (NDA) filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a product, significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any
reason, we may be unable to ship our products or to supply any of our drug candidates for clinical trials.       Accounts Receivable       Trade accounts receivable are recorded net of allowances for wholesaler chargebacks for government rebates, cash discounts for prompt payment, doubtful
accounts and sales returns. Estimates for wholesaler chargebacks for government rebates, cash discounts and sales returns are based on contractual terms, historical trends and our expectations regarding the utilization rates for these programs.
Estimates for our allowance for doubtful accounts is determined based on existing contractual obligations, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by customer and
geographic region and a review of the local economic environment and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. Historically, the amounts of uncollectible accounts receivable that have been written off have been
insignificant and consistent with management s expectations.       Inventories       Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We periodically review the composition of
our inventories in order to identify obsolete, slow-moving or otherwise unsaleable items. If unsaleable items are observed and there are no alternate uses for the inventory, we will record a write-down to net realizable value in the period that the
impairment is first recognized.       Prepaid Royalties       Prepaid royalties are capitalized at cost which initially is equivalent to the present value of the future royalty obligation that we would expect to pay to the licensor on expected levels of product sales
incorporating the  
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 related technology. We review quarterly our expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down of the net
recoverable value or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. We amortize our prepaid royalties to cost of goods sold over the remaining life of the underlying patent based on an effective royalty rate derived from forecasted future
product sales incorporating the related technology. We review our effective royalty rate at least annually and prospectively adjust the effective rate based on significant new facts or circumstances that may arise from our review.      Our prepaid royalties are primarily comprised of emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory University (Emory) for the HIV indication when we and Royalty
Pharma purchased the royalty interest owned by Emory in 2005. Under the terms of the transaction, we and Royalty Pharma paid 65% and 35%, respectively, of the total purchase price of $525.0 million to Emory in exchange for the elimination of the
emtricitabine royalties due to Emory on worldwide net sales of products containing emtricitabine. As a result of this transaction, we capitalized as prepaid royalties our 65% share of the $525.0 million purchase price, or $341.3 million. As of
December 31, 2008, we had an unamortized prepaid royalty asset of $275.0 million. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, $31.8 million, $14.3 million and $15.1 million were amortized to cost of goods sold, respectively.       Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and
equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives in years are as
follows:       

Description    
      
   Estimated Useful Life    
 
    Buildings and improvements   
      
  20-35   
 
    Laboratory and manufacturing equipment   
      
  4-10   
 
    Office and computer equipment   
      
  3-7   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of useful life or lease term   
    Office and computer equipment includes capitalized software. All of our capitalized software is
purchased; we have no internally developed software. We had unamortized capitalized software costs of $17.9 million and $12.7 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Leasehold improvements and
capitalized leased equipment are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the asset s useful life. Amortization of capitalized leased equipment is included in depreciation expense. Capitalized interest on construction in-progress is
included in property, plant and equipment. Interest capitalized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was not significant.       Goodwill and Intangible Assets
      Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS 142) ,  goodwill is not amortized, but is required to be tested annually for impairment. In accordance with SFAS 142, we test goodwill for impairment on an
annual basis and in between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the goodwill below its carrying amount.      Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest
that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The carrying value of long-lived assets is reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances both internally and externally that may suggest impairment. Specific potential indicators of
impairment include a significant decrease in the fair value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used or a significant physical change in an asset, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the
business climate that affects the value of an asset, an adverse action or assessment by the FDA or another regulator, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset and operating
or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with an income producing asset.      Should there be an indication of impairment, we will test for recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result
from the use of the asset or asset group and its eventual disposition to the carrying amount of the asset or asset group. In estimating these future cash flows, assets and liabilities are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable
cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows generated by other such groups. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment loss, measured as the excess of the carrying
value of the asset or asset group over its estimated fair value, will be recognized. The cash flow estimates used in such calculations are based on management s best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the
time.       Foreign Currency Translation, Transactions and Contracts       Adjustments resulting from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net income (loss) and are recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders  equity. Net foreign currency exchange transaction gains or losses are included in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net transaction
gains (losses) totaled $(36.5) million, $11.4 million and $17.3 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      We hedge certain of our
foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary assets and liabilities and forecasted product sales with foreign currency exchange forward contracts and foreign currency exchange option contracts. In general, the market risks of these
contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. Our exposure to credit risk from these contracts is a function of changes in interest and currency exchange rates and, therefore, varies over time. We limit the
risk that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform by transacting only with major banks, all of which we monitor closely in the context of current market conditions. We also limit risk of loss by entering into contracts that
provide for net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is limited to the amount of any unrecognized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair value) at
the date of default. We do not enter into speculative foreign currency transactions. We do not hedge our net investment in any of our foreign subsidiaries.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments       Our financial instruments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, marketable
securities, accounts receivable, certain other noncurrent assets, foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts, accounts payable, long-term debt and other long-term obligations. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities (see Note
6), and foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge accounts receivable (see above and Note 2) are reported at their respective fair values on our balance sheets. Foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge forecasted sales are recorded at
fair value, net of the related deferred gain or loss, resulting in a reported net balance of zero. The remaining financial instruments are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts that approximate current fair values.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosure requirements regarding fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after November 15, 2007 for financial assets and liabilities as well as for non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis in the financial statements. In accordance with FASB Staff
Position (FSP) No. FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 , for all other non-financial assets and liabilities, SFAS 157 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. In October 2008,
the FASB issued FSP No. 157-3,  Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active  (FSP 157-3), that clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active and provides an
example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. FSP 157-3 is applicable to the valuation of auction rate securities held by us for which there was no
active market as of December 31, 2008. FSP 157-3 is effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which the financial statements have not been issued.      On January 1, 2008, we adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 on a prospective basis for our financial assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 requires that we determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities
using the fair value hierarchy established in SFAS 157 and describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows:      Level 1 inputs which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;      Level 2 inputs which include
observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be
corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability; and      Level 3 inputs which include
unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using
pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.      The adoption of SFAS 157 and FSP 157-3 had no effect on our consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2008.      The following table summarizes, for each major category of assets or liabilities, the respective fair value and the classification by level of input within the fair value hierarchy defined in SFAS 157 (in thousands):       
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table is a reconciliation of marketable securities measured at fair value using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in thousands):       
    Marketable securities, measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs, are substantially comprised of
auction rate securities within our available-for-sale investment portfolio. The underlying assets of our auction rate securities are comprised of student loans. Although auction rate securities would typically be measured using Level 2 inputs, the
failure of auctions and the lack of market activity and liquidity experienced since the beginning of 2008 required that these securities be measured using Level 3 inputs. The fair value of our auction rate securities was determined using a
discounted cash flow model that considered projected cash flows for the issuing trusts, underlying collateral and expected yields. Projected cash flows were estimated based on the underlying loan principal, bonds outstanding and payout formulas. The
weighted-average life over which the cash flows were projected considered the collateral composition of the securities and related historical and projected prepayments. The underlying student loans have a weighted-average useful life of three to
nine years. The discount rates used in our discounted cash flow model were based on market conditions for comparable or similar term asset-backed securities as well as other fixed income securities adjusted for an illiquidity discount resulting in a
discount rate of 7.6%. Our auction rate securities reset every seven to 35 days with maturity dates ranging from 2023 through 2041 and have interest rates ranging from 1.3% to 2.6%. As of December 31, 2008, our auction rate securities continued
to earn interest.      Our auction rate securities were measured using Level 3 inputs and were recorded in long-term marketable securities on
our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2008. Although there have been failed auctions as well as lack of market activity and liquidity during 2008, based on our assessment of the underlying collateral, the creditworthiness of the
issuers of the securities and our ability and intent to hold these securities until anticipated recovery, which could be at final maturity, we had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of December 31, 2008.       Income Taxes       Our income tax provision is computed
under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences
are expected to reverse. Significant estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable
effects on our income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future
levels of  
       
   93   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 R D spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall
levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our consolidated
net income.      On January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), an interpretation of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS 109). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by
prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. As a result of our adoption of FIN 48, we increased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $14.1 million with a corresponding charge to
the opening balance of accumulated deficit, as permitted under FIN 48. In addition, we reclassified $68.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits from short-term income taxes payable and noncurrent deferred tax assets to long-term income taxes
payable. As of the date of adoption, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $86.2 million recorded primarily in long-term income taxes payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including accrued liabilities
related to interest of $4.0 million. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $78.0 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we have continued to
classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In June 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an
Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock  (EITF 07-5). EITF 07-5 provides guidance on how to determine if certain instruments (or embedded features) are considered indexed to our own stock, including
instruments similar to our Notes, convertible note hedges, warrants to purchase our stock, the forward contract that we entered into as part of our accelerated share repurchase transaction in February 2008 and which was completed in June 2008 and
the forward contract that we entered into as part of our accelerated share repurchase transaction in October 2008. EITF 07-5 requires companies to use a two-step approach to evaluate an instrument s contingent exercise provisions and settlement
provisions in determining whether the instrument is considered to be indexed to its own stock and exempt from the application of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Although EITF 07-5 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, any outstanding instrument at the date of adoption will require a retrospective application of the accounting through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings upon
adoption. We do not expect the adoption of EITF 07-5 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.     In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  (FSP APB 14-1). FSP APB 14-1 addresses instruments
commonly referred to as Instrument C from EITF 90-19, which requires the issuer to settle the principal amount in cash and the conversion spread in cash or net shares at the issuer s option. FSP APB 14-1 requires that issuers of these
instruments account for their liability and equity components separately by bifurcating the conversion option from the debt instrument, classifying the conversion option in equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional
interest expense over the expected life of the debt. FSP APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years, and requires retrospective application to all periods
presented. Early application is not permitted. We expect that the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and  
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 results of operations. Based on the requirements of FSP APB 14-1, we estimate that if FSP APB 14-1 was effective for the current and comparative periods, we
would have reported additional interest expense related to our convertible senior notes of approximately $53.2 million, $50.0 million and $32.7 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting
Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of
consolidated net income (loss) attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interests, changes in a parent s ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS
160 also establishes additional reporting requirements that identify and distinguish between the ownership interest of the parent and the interest of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS 160 is effective for interim periods and fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2008. Upon adopting SFAS 160, we plan to reclassify the noncontrolling interest, or minority interest, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets from liabilities to stockholders  equity and to present the noncontrolling
interest, or minority interest, on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest, which will be a component of total consolidated net income (loss).      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R establishes principles
and requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree in a business combination. SFAS 141R also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a
business combination; requires purchased in-process research and development (IPR D) to be capitalized at fair value as intangible assets at the time of acquisition; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized
separately from the business combination; expands the definition of what constitutes a business; and requires the acquirer to disclose information that users may need to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. SFAS
141R is effective on a prospective basis and will impact business combination transactions for which the acquisition date occurs after December 15, 2008. Depending on the nature and magnitude of our future business combination transactions,
SFAS 141R may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and/or results of operations.       

2.   
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS         All derivatives
are recognized as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value, based on quoted market prices. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against changes in the fair value of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in a non-functional currency. We record changes in the fair value of such instruments in interest and other income, net, as these derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under SFAS Nos. 133 and 138,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities , (collectively referred to as SFAS 133).      We enter into foreign currency forward and option
contracts, all with maturities of 18 months or less, to hedge a percentage of our future cash flows related to forecasted product sales in certain foreign currencies. These derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign
currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified. Hedges related to forecasted foreign currency denominated product sales designated and documented at the inception of the respective hedge are designated as cash flow hedges under
SFAS 133 and evaluated for effectiveness quarterly. At the inception of a hedging relationship and on a quarterly basis, we perform a regression analysis taking the change in cash flow of the underlying contract and regressing it against the change
in cash flow of the hedge instrument (excluding time value) to assess effectiveness of the hedging relationship. We assess hedge effectiveness on a retrospective basis using a dollar offset approach  
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 monthly. We exclude time value from our effectiveness testing and recognize changes in the time value of the hedge in interest and other income, net. For
2008, 2007 and 2006, we excluded gains (losses) of $(14.9) million, $4.0 million and $8.6 million from our assessment of hedge effectiveness, respectively. The effective component of the hedge is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) as an unrealized gain or loss on the hedging instrument (see Note 14). When the hedged forecasted transactions occur, the hedges are de-designated and the unrealized gains and losses are reclassified into product sales at that time.
Substantially all values reported in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2008 will be reclassified to product sales within 12 months. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had net unrealized gains (losses) of $54.9 million
and $(27.2) million, respectively, on our open foreign currency exchange contracts. Net losses on cash flow hedges, which are recorded in product sales, decreased product sales by $17.0 million, $44.0 million and $15.6 million in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively.      Any residual changes in fair value of the hedging instruments (including those resulting from the cancellation or
de-designation of hedge contracts) or other ineffectiveness are recognized immediately in interest and other income, net. The impact of hedge ineffectiveness during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was not significant to our Consolidated Statements of
Operations.      We had notional amounts on foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts outstanding of $2.39 billion at
December 31, 2008 and $1.61 billion at December 31, 2007. We had a hedge asset (liability) fair value of $90.7 million and $(11.5) million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       

3.   
   ACQUISITIONS          Navitas Assets, LLC       In May 2008, we executed an asset purchase agreement with Navitas Assets, LLC (Navitas) to acquire all of the assets related to its cicletanine business.
We acquired the exclusive rights to regulatory data and filings for development of cicletanine as a monotherapy for PAH and for other indications in the United States. We plan to evaluate cicletanine as a potential treatment of PAH.      The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was $10.9 million, and consisted primarily of cash paid. In addition, Navitas is entitled to potential
additional purchase consideration, including payments contingent on future achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. These amounts will be recorded when and if the related contingencies are resolved. The purchase price was
allocated to IPR D which represents the purchased IPR D program for cicletanine that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date, and therefore, was expensed upon acquisition
within our Consolidated Statement of Operations.       Nycomed Limited       On September 6, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Nycomed Limited (Nycomed), a wholly-owned Irish subsidiary of Germany-based pharmaceutical company, Nycomed GmbH. The Nycomed facility, located in Cork,
Ireland, conducted manufacturing and tableting operations for Nycomed GmbH. We transferred certain of our manufacturing operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to this facility and utilize the site primarily for solid dose tablet manufacturing
of existing and future products, as well as product packaging. The Nycomed acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141). The results of operations of
Nycomed since the completion of the acquisition on September 6, 2007 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The aggregate purchase price for all of Nycomed s common stock was $48.3 million, which
consisted of cash paid at closing of $46.6 million, estimated direct transaction costs of $1.0 million and employee-related severance costs of $0.7 million. Employee-related severance costs were capitalized as part of the purchase price, as we
established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination  (EITF 95-3) .  These costs have been
fully paid. The purchase price was allocated primarily to property, plant and equipment of $48.5 million with the remaining balance allocated to net working capital at September 6, 2007.      In connection with the transfer of certain manufacturing operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to the Cork facility, we finalized our personnel
plan with respect to our Dublin employees and met the criteria for recognizing and expensing one-time termination benefits under SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities , in the fourth quarter of
2007. Estimated termination benefits totaled approximately $3.2 million.       Myogen, Inc.       On November 17, 2006, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Myogen through a cash tender offer, under the
terms of an agreement and plan of merger entered into on October 1, 2006. Myogen was a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Westminster, Colorado that focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule
therapeutics for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. Myogen had two product candidates in late stage clinical development: ambrisentan for the treatment of patients with PAH and darusentan for the treatment of patients with resistant
hypertension. The acquisition provided us with an opportunity to expand into the cardiovascular therapeutic area.      The Myogen acquisition
was accounted for as a business combination in accordance with SFAS 141. The results of operations of Myogen since November 17, 2006 have been included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.      The aggregate purchase price for all of Myogen s common stock was $2.42 billion, and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $2.34 billion;
the fair value of vested stock options assumed of $85.5 million; direct transaction costs of $13.1 million, which consisted primarily of investment banking fees; employee-related severance costs of $4.0 million; and a reduction to income taxes
payable of $23.6 million which resulted primarily from the exercise in 2007 of stock options assumed from Myogen that were vested as of the acquisition date. This reduction to income taxes payable resulted in a decrease to the aggregate purchase
price. Employee-related severance costs were capitalized as part of the purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction in accordance with EITF 95-3 .  These costs have been fully paid.
     In accordance with the merger agreement that we entered into with Myogen, the conversion value of each stock option assumed was determined
based on the exercise price of each option to purchase shares of common stock of Myogen and the average closing price of our common stock for the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding (but not including) the tender offer acceptance
date of November 14, 2006, which was $34.02 per share. The estimated fair value of stock options assumed was determined using an average price of $34.02 per share, which approximated the price that would have resulted from averaging the closing
price of our common stock from two trading days before to two trading days after the acceptance date in accordance with EITF Issue No. 99-12,  Determination of the Measurement Date for the Market Price of Acquirer Securities Issued in a
Purchase Business Combination . The fair value of stock options assumed was calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions: expected term ranging from 1.2 to 3.7 years, risk-free interest rate ranging from 4.7% to
5.0%, expected volatility ranging from 30.4% to 35.5% and no dividend yield. The fair value of the as converted Gilead stock options did not exceed the fair value of the Myogen stock options immediately prior to the exchange.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Approximately 2.8 million of the 5.8 million as converted shares subject to outstanding
Myogen stock options were fully vested as of the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of vested options of $85.5 million was included in the purchase price. The estimated fair value of the unvested options of $59.5 million was not included in
the purchase price and is being recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the remaining future vesting period of the options.      The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation at November 17, 2006 (in thousands):       
    The $24.0 million of deferred revenue reflected the fair value of deferred revenue for which we
have legal performance obligations, in accordance with EITF Issue No. 01-3,  Accounting in a Business Combination for Deferred Revenue of an Acquiree . The $180.8 million of deferred tax assets was primarily related to federal net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations. We concluded that, based on the standard set forth in SFAS 109, it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits from these deferred tax assets. Because we
elected to treat the Myogen acquisition as an asset acquisition for California state tax purposes, purchased IPR D and goodwill resulting from the acquisition are deductible for California state income tax purposes, although such amounts are not
deductible for federal income tax purposes.      The estimated fair value of purchased IPR D of $2.06 billion was determined by our
management. The purchased IPR D represents Myogen s incomplete R D programs that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition
within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. A summary of these programs at the acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes in status of development, is as follows:         
   98   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value (in millions)    
 
  Ambrisentan  
      
  An orally active, non-sulfonamide, propanoic acid-class, endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) for the treatment of PAH.  
      
  Phase 3 clinical trials were completed prior to the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in December 2006 and, in June 2007, the FDA approved Letairis for the treatment of PAH in the
United States. Additionally, in March 2007, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) validated the marketing authorization  
      
  $  
  1,413.7   

application for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, filed by our collaboration partner, GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK). In April 2008, the European Commission granted GSK marketing authorization
for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, which is marketed under the name Volibris by GSK.  

Darusentan  
      
  An orally active ETA-selective ERA for the treatment of resistant hypertension.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical development as of the acquisition date and the date of this filing.  
      
  $  
  644.5   
    The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach,
which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 14%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Myogen s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with Myogen s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. We compensated for the differing phases of
development of ambrisentan and darusentan by probability-adjusting our estimation of the expected future cash flows associated with each program. We then determined at that time the present value of the expected future cash flows using the discount
rate of 14%. The projected cash flows from the ambrisentan and darusentan programs were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the programs considering their stages of development; the time and
resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related product candidates; the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound
such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.      The remaining efforts for completing the darusentan IPR D program consist primarily of clinical trials, the cost, length and success of which are extremely difficult to predict, and obtaining necessary regulatory
approvals. Numerous risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials and the risk of failing to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals.
Feedback from regulatory authorities or results from clinical trials might require modifications to or delays in later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. We cannot be certain that darusentan for the treatment of resistant
hypertension will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the United States or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Future discussions with regulatory agencies will determine the amount of
data needed and timelines for review, which may differ materially from current projections. Darusentan may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of darusentan if, for example,
we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. No assurance can
be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely  
       
   99   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 and successful completion of this project will materialize as estimated. For these reasons, among others, actual results may vary significantly from
estimated results.      The excess of the purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
was $70.9 million, which represented the goodwill amount resulting from the Myogen acquisition. We recorded the goodwill as a noncurrent asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. In accordance with SFAS 142 ,  goodwill
is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the goodwill below its carrying amount.       Raylo Chemicals Inc.       On November 3, 2006, we
completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Raylo Chemicals Inc. (Raylo), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Germany-based specialty chemicals company Degussa AG. Located in Edmonton, Canada, Raylo s operations
encompassed custom manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients and advanced intermediates for the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries. We utilize the Raylo site for process research and scale-up of our clinical development
candidates, the manufacture of our active pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and for our chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes.      The Raylo acquisition was accounted for as a business combination in accordance with SFAS 141. The results of operations of Raylo since November 3,
2006 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      The aggregate purchase price for all of Raylo s common stock
was $133.4 million, and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $132.4 million, direct transaction costs of $0.8 million and employee-related severance costs of $0.1 million. Employee-related severance costs were capitalized as part of the
purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction in accordance with EITF 95-3. These costs have been fully paid.      The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation at November 3, 2006 (in thousands):       
    The $67.2 million of net tangible assets included $8.2 million of cash, $47.7 million of property,
plant and equipment and $14.0 million of other tangible assets, less assumed liabilities of $2.7 million. The estimated fair value of $8.5 million associated with the good manufacturing practices (GMP) qualification of Raylo s facilities was
determined by our management. This value was recorded as an intangible asset to be amortized on a straight-line basis over three years, which is the estimated useful life of the asset determined by management based on the amount of time over which
we would derive benefit before having to make substantial upgrades or revisions to the acquired manufacturing practices. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accumulated amortization on this asset was $6.1 million and $3.3 million,
respectively. The amortization expense recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $2.8 million, $2.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively. The estimated amortization expense to be recognized in 2009 is approximately $2.4 million. The asset is expected
to be fully amortized by November 2009.      The excess of the purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed was $57.7 million, which represented the goodwill resulting from the Raylo acquisition. We recorded  
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 the goodwill as a noncurrent asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. Because we elected to treat the Raylo acquisition as an
asset acquisition for federal and California state tax purposes, the goodwill resulting from the acquisition was deductible for both federal and California state income tax purposes.      Prior to the acquisition, Raylo was one of our long-standing contract manufacturers. We determined, in accordance with EITF Issue No. 04-1,
 Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination,  that there was no settlement of the pre-existing relationship as part of the business combination and that no value needed to be assigned to the
pre-existing relationship in the purchase price allocation summarized above. Raylo s assets as of the acquisition date included $2.0 million of trade receivables from us, which were eliminated in our Consolidated Balance Sheet upon completion
of the acquisition.       Corus Pharma, Inc.       On August 11, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Corus, a privately-held biopharmaceutical company based in Seattle, Washington. Corus was a development stage company that focused on the development and commercialization of novel
drugs for respiratory and infectious diseases. Corus had one lead product candidate in late stage clinical trials and two early stage product candidates. This acquisition provided us with an opportunity to expand into the respiratory therapeutic
area as well as augment our pipeline.      The Corus acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a business
combination in accordance with the criteria outlined in EITF Issue No. 98-3,  Determining Whether a Nonmonetary Transaction Involves Receipt of Productive Assets or of a Business  and SFAS 141. Corus was considered a development stage
company because it had not commenced its planned principal operations. Additionally, it lacked all the necessary elements of a business, including not having a completed product and, therefore, no ability to access customers. The results of
operations of Corus since August 11, 2006 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      In April 2006, we
purchased $25.0 million of Corus s Series C preferred stock, which represented approximately 15% of Corus s voting equity interests at the time. In conjunction with the purchase of Series C preferred stock, we also entered into the
agreement and plan of merger under which we had an option to acquire by merger the remaining outstanding shares of Corus. In July 2006, we announced that we had agreed to exercise this option and concurrently entered into an agreement with Novartis
Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis) whereby Novartis agreed to dismiss its litigation against Corus for a payment to be made by us to Novartis. Since the claims made by Novartis directly implicated Corus s right to develop and
commercialize its products, settling with Novartis was deemed appropriate to allow completion of the acquisition and to ensure claims by Novartis could not impede our ability to further develop and commercialize Corus s product candidates.
Without a settlement, the results of the ongoing trial at the time of settlement would have been uncertain for a sustained period following the closing due to legal appeals and other potential proceedings. Upon completion of the acquisition, we
included our investment in Corus s Series C preferred stock and the payment to Novartis as part of the acquisition purchase price.      The aggregate purchase price for all of the acquired shares was $415.5 million and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $363.6 million, the fair value of vested stock options assumed of $7.4 million, direct transaction costs of
$4.0 million and employee-related severance costs of $4.0 million. In addition, a holdback amount of $36.5 million was payable to Corus stockholders by us one year after the closing of the merger, except to the extent utilized to pay claims made by
us within that one year. Because we had assessed that it was probable that we would pay out this holdback amount, we recorded the amount in other accrued liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. We paid the holdback
amount of $36.5 million in August 2007. Employee-related severance costs were capitalized as part of the purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction. These costs have been fully paid.
        
   101   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation at August 11, 2006 (in thousands):
      
    The $7.2 million of net tangible assets included $8.5 million of cash, $4.3 million of marketable
securities and $4.9 million of other tangible assets, less assumed liabilities of $10.5 million. The $1.6 million value assigned to the assembled workforce is being amortized over three years, which is the estimated useful life of the asset. The
$71.2 million of net deferred tax assets was primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations. We concluded that, based on the standard set forth in SFAS 109, it is more likely than not
that we will realize the benefits from these deferred tax assets. Because we elected to treat the Corus acquisition as an asset acquisition for California state tax purposes, the purchased IPR D resulting from the acquisition is deductible for
California state income tax purposes, although such amount is not deductible for federal income tax purposes.      The estimated fair value of
purchased IPR D and assembled workforce was determined by our management. The estimated fair value of purchased IPR D was greater than the purchase price paid; therefore, the amount that was allocated to purchased IPR D consisted of the
net amount remaining after allocating the purchase price to the net tangible assets, assembled workforce and net deferred tax assets. The purchased IPR D represented Corus s incomplete R D program that had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. A summary of this program at the acquisition date, updated for subsequent changes
in status of development, is as follows:       

Program    
      
     Description    
      
     Status of Development    
      
   Estimated Acquisition Date Fair Value     (in millions) 

Aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF)  
      
  Aztreonam formulation for inhalation to be used against Gram-negative bacteria that cause lung infections in patients with CF.  
      
  In Phase 3 clinical trials as of the acquisition date. We filed an NDA with the FDA in November 2007. In September 2008, we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that the
FDA will not approve our NDA for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical study. In November 2008, we filed a request for a formal dispute resolution with
the FDA. In February 2009, in response to our appeal, the FDA notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our NDA. We have also
submitted a marketing authorization application in the European Union and received notice of acceptance and priority review by Health Canada for approval in Canada. We are still awaiting responses from the respective regulatory bodies.  
      
  $  
  335.6   
       
   102   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The estimated fair value of the purchased IPR D was determined using the income approach, which
discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of the purchased IPR D using a present value discount rate of 16%, which is based on the estimated internal rate of return for Corus s operations, is
comparable to the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with Corus s profile, and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the purchased IPR D. The projected cash flows from the aztreonam for
inhalation solution program were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the program considering its stage of development; the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of the
related product candidate; the life of the potential commercialized product and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and risks
related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets. Corus s two other early stage candidates were not included in the valuation of purchased IPR D because they were early stage projects that did
not have identifiable revenues and expenses associated with them.      The remaining efforts for completing Corus s IPR D program
consist primarily of clinical trials, the cost, length and success of which are extremely difficult to predict. Numerous risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the possibility of unfavorable results of
our clinical trials and the risk of failing to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. We cannot be certain that aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF will be approved in the United States or in countries outside of the
United States or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. Aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF may never be successfully commercialized. As a result, we may make a strategic decision to
discontinue development of aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of CF if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If this program cannot be completed on a timely
basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the above cash flows or the timely and successful completion of the project will
materialize as estimated. For these reasons, among others, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.       

4.   
   ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE         In October 2008, we
signed a purchase and sale agreement to purchase an office building and approximately 30 acres of land located in Foster City, California, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $137.5 million. We made an initial refundable
deposit of $5.0 million into escrow in October which was included in other current assets as of December 31, 2008, and in January 2009, the remaining balance of $132.5 million was paid into escrow upon closing the transaction. As part of
closing, the purchase and sale agreement was amended to allow for a holdback in escrow of $15.5 million of the purchase price, to be released depending on the outcome of certain requirements mutually agreed to at closing.       

5.   
   ASSET DISPOSAL         In March 2006, we received local
city approval to proceed with the demolition of two of our buildings in Foster City, California, and to begin construction of a new facility. We included the charge associated with the write-off of these buildings, equal to their aggregate net book
value of $7.9 million, in SG A expenses.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

6.   
   AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES         The following is a
summary of available-for-sale securities recorded in cash equivalents or marketable securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Estimated fair values of available-for-sale securities are generally based on prices obtained from commercial pricing
services (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, other debt securities consisted primarily of money market
funds and auction rate securities.      The following table presents the classification of the available-for-sale securities on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):       
    At December 31, 2008, our portfolio of available-for-sale debt securities comprised $1.10
billion of securities with a contractual maturity of less than one year and $1.14 billion of securities with a contractual  
       
   104   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 maturity greater than one year but less than five years, $44.0 million of securities with a contractual maturity of greater than five years but less
than ten years, and $266.9 million of securities with a contractual maturity of greater than ten years. Securities with a contractual maturity of greater than ten years comprised asset-backed securities (which included mortgage-backed securities)
and auction rate securities.      The following table presents certain information related to sales of marketable securities (in thousands):
      
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had the following available-for-sale debt securities that
were in a continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2008, the gross unrealized losses were primarily caused by an increase in
the yield-to-maturity of the underlying securities, and approximately 29% of the total number of our investments was in unrealized loss positions. In the case of auction rate securities, gross unrealized losses were caused by a higher discount rate
used in the valuation of these securities as compared to the coupon rates of these securities. No significant facts or circumstances have arisen to indicate that there has been any deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuers of these
securities. Based on our review of these securities, including the assessment of the duration and severity of the related unrealized losses and our ability and intent to hold the investments until maturity, we had no other-than-temporary impairments
on these securities as of December 31, 2008.      As a result of our review of investments for other-than-temporary impairment, in 2008 we
recorded a total charge of $4.4 million in interest and other income, net, to write-down the cost basis of our investments in the common stock of Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Achillion) (See Note 9) and the asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP)
of a structured investment vehicle to $4.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively. In December  
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 2007, we recorded a total charge of $8.8 million in interest and other income, net, to write-down the cost basis of our investments in the common stock of
Achillion and the asset-backed commercial paper ABCP of a structured investment vehicle to $7.0 million and $1.8 million, respectively. The other-than-temporary impairments for Achillion were based on the quoted market price of Achillion common
stock on September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, compared to our cost basis. Our assessment was based primarily on the observation that the quoted market value of the investment had been less than its carrying value over three
consecutive quarters. The other-than-temporary impairment for the ABCP in 2007 was based on various market factors, including the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral of the ABCP. As of December 31, 2008, our investment in the
common stock of Achillion and the ABCP were $0.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, which were recorded in long-term marketable securities and short-term marketable securities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.       

7.   
   INVENTORIES         Inventories are summarized as follows
(in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the joint ventures formed by Gilead and BMS (See Note 9),
which are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements, held $607.7 million and $296.2 million in inventory, respectively, of efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient, purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of Sustiva.
     We established the Gilead Access Program in 2003, pursuant to which we make Truvada and Viread available at substantially reduced prices
in more than 125 countries in the developing world. Based on our regular evaluation of forecasted sales, pricing and inventory shelf life in 2006, we concluded that we would not fully recover the full carrying value associated with the inventory of
Truvada and Viread for our Gilead Access Program. As a result, we recorded a charge of $15.8 million in 2006 in cost of goods sold to write down this inventory to its estimated net realizable value.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

8.   
   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT         Property, plant and
equipment are summarized as follows (in thousands):       

9.   
   COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS         As a result of entering
into strategic collaborations from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We review our interests in our investee companies for consolidation and/or appropriate disclosure under the provisions of FIN 46R. As of
December 31, 2008, we determined that certain of our investee companies are variable interest entities; however, other than with respect to our joint ventures with BMS, we are not the primary beneficiary and therefore do not consolidate these
investees.       Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        North America       In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS in the United States to develop and commercialize
a single tablet regimen containing our Truvada and BMS s Sustiva. The collaboration is structured as a joint venture and operates as a limited liability company, which we consolidate, named Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC.
The ownership interests of the joint venture and thus the sharing of product revenue and costs reflect the respective economic interests of BMS and us and are based on the proportions of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to Sustiva and
Truvada. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of Sustiva, both BMS and our respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually.      We share marketing and sales efforts with BMS and both parties are obligated to provide equivalent sales force efforts for a minimum number of years. We
are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax reporting and product distribution for the joint venture. Both parties provide their respective bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients to the joint venture at their approximate market values.
In July 2006, the joint venture received approval from the FDA to sell Atripla in the United States. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into Canada.
In October 2007, the joint venture received approval from Health Canada to sell Atripla in Canada. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the joint venture held efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient which it purchased from BMS  
       
   107   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 at BMS s estimated net selling price of Sustiva in the U.S. market. These amounts are included in inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, total assets held by the joint venture were $1.07 billion and $832.6 million, respectively, and consisted of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable (including intercompany receivables with Gilead),
inventories and prepaid and other assets. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, total liabilities held by the joint venture were $548.0 million and $454.9 million, respectively, and consisted of accounts payable (including intercompany payables
with Gilead) and other accrued expenses. Although we are the primary beneficiary of the joint venture, the legal structure of the joint venture limits the recourse that its creditors will have over our general credit or assets.       Europe       In December 2007, Gilead
Sciences Limited (GSL), one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Ireland, and BMS entered into a collaboration arrangement to commercialize and distribute Atripla in the European Union, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein (the European
Territory). The parties formed a limited liability company which we consolidate, to manufacture Atripla for distribution in Europe using efavirenz that it purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European
Territory. We are responsible for product distribution, inventory management and warehousing. Through our local subsidiaries, we have primary responsibility for order fulfillment, collection of receivables, customer relations and handling of sales
returns in all the territories where we co-promote Atripla with BMS. We are also responsible for accounting, financial reporting and tax reporting for the collaboration. In December 2007, the European Commission approved Atripla for sale in the
European Union. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, efavirenz purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European Territory, is included in inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The parties formed Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited, a limited liability company, to hold the marketing authorization for Atripla in
Europe. We have primary responsibility for regulatory activities, and we share marketing and sales efforts with BMS. In the major market countries, both parties have agreed to provide equivalent sales force efforts. Revenue and cost sharing is based
on the relative ratio of Truvada and Sustiva s respective net selling prices.       PARI GmbH       As a result of the acquisition of Corus in August 2006, we assumed all rights to the February 2002 development agreement between Corus and PARI GmbH
(PARI) for the development of aztreonam for inhalation solution and development of an inhalation delivery device for this drug candidate. Under the terms of the agreement, we are obligated to pay PARI for services rendered, and
subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are obligated to pay certain milestone payments to PARI. In addition, we will make royalty payments based on net sales of aztreonam for inhalation solution, if approved for
commercialization. The agreement also provided us the right to reduce the royalty rate payable to PARI. In November 2007, we paid PARI $13.5 million to reduce the royalty rate under the agreement. As aztreonam for inhalation solution
has not yet been approved for commercialization, we recorded this payment in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In April 2008, pursuant to the February 2002 development agreement, we entered into a commercialization
agreement with PARI which provides for the supply and manufacture of an inhalation delivery device and accessories for use with aztreonam for inhalation solution. Under the terms of this agreement, we are obligated to pay royalties on future net
sales of these products pursuant to the 2002 development agreement.        
   108   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    LG Life Sciences, Ltd.       In November 2007, we entered into a license agreement with LG Life Sciences, Ltd. (LGLS) to develop and commercialize certain caspase inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases. The agreement granted us
commercialization rights to LGLS s caspase inhibitors, including LB84451 (GS 9450). Under the terms of the agreement, our license is worldwide, with the exception of Korea, China and India where LGLS has retained rights. LGLS also retains the
right to develop and commercialize caspase inhibitors for ophthalmic and topical uses worldwide. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we paid a $20.0 million up-front license fee that was recorded in R D expenses in our Consolidated
Statement of Operations as there was no future alternative use for this technology. The agreement also obligated us to fund a collaborative research program for two years to identify other potential caspase inhibitor drug candidates. In addition, we
are obligated to make additional milestone payments of up to $182.0 million upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial objectives. We are also obligated to pay royalties on future net sales of products that are developed
and approved in relation to this collaboration.       Parion Sciences, Inc.       In August 2007, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Parion Sciences, Inc. (Parion) to research, develop and commercialize certain epithelial sodium channel inhibitors for the treatment
of pulmonary diseases. The agreement granted us worldwide commercialization rights to P-680 (GS 9411), an epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) inhibitor discovered by Parion, for the treatment of pulmonary diseases, including CF, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and non-CF bronchiectasis. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we paid a $5.0 million up-front license fee that was recorded in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations as there was no future
alternative use for this technology, and made a $5.0 million investment in Parion in the form of convertible debt, which was recorded as other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under the collaboration agreement, we will lead all
development and commercialization activities and provide funding of full time equivalent employees for certain research activities. In addition, we are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of certain milestones and pay
royalties on future net sales of products that are developed and approved in relation to this collaboration.       Roche       In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement (the 1996 Agreement) Roche, to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and
prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the 1996 Agreement, Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide,
subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of the net revenues that Roche generates from Tamiflu sales, which, in turn, has been subject to reduction for certain defined manufacturing costs.      In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the 1996 Agreement with Roche. The amended agreement provided for the formation of
a joint manufacturing committee to review Roche s manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and its global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United States and a
joint supervisory committee to evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis in each case, consisting of representatives of Roche and us. Under the amended agreement, we also have the option to provide a specialized
sales force to supplement Roche s marketing efforts in the United States for Tamiflu.      The royalties payable to us on net sales of
Tamiflu sold by Roche remain the same under the amended agreement, which are as follows: (a) 14% of the first $200.0 million in worldwide net sales in a given calendar year; (b) 18% of the next $200.0 million in worldwide net sales during
the same calendar year; and (c) 22% of  
       
   109   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 worldwide net sales in excess of $400.0 million during the same calendar year. The amended agreement revised the provision in the 1996
Agreement relating to the calculation of royalty payments such that in any given calendar quarter Roche will pay royalties based on the actual royalty rates applicable to such quarter. In addition, under the amended agreement, royalties payable
by Roche to us will no longer be subject to a cost of goods sold adjustment that was provided in the 1996 Agreement. We recorded a total of $155.5 million, $414.5 million and $364.6 million of Tamiflu royalties in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
      Japan Tobacco Inc.       In March 2005,
Japan Tobacco granted us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor known as GS 9137, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco retained such rights. Under the terms of the
agreement, we incurred an up-front license fee of $15.0 million which was included in R D expenses in 2005 as there was no future alternative use for this technology. In March 2006, we recorded $5.0 million in R D expenses related to a
milestone we incurred as a result of dosing the first patient in a Phase 2 clinical study and in July 2008, we recorded $7.0 million in R D expenses related to a milestone we paid related to the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 clinical
study. We are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of other milestones as well as pay royalties on any future product sales arising from this collaboration.       Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       In November 2004, Achillion granted us worldwide rights for the
research, development and commercialization of certain small molecule hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication inhibitors involving HCV protease, for the treatment of hepatitis C. Under this collaboration, Achillion is obligated to continue the
development of the inhibitor compounds according to a mutually agreed upon development plan, through completion of a proof of concept clinical study in HCV infected patients. The costs incurred to achieve proof of concept would be shared equally
between Achillion and us. Following the proof of concept study, we are obligated to assume full responsibilities and incur all costs associated with development and commercialization of compounds warranting further development. Achillion has the
option to participate in U.S. commercialization efforts for future products arising from this collaboration. In conjunction with the signing of the collaboration, we paid a $5.0 million up-front license fee, which was recorded in R D expenses as
there was no future alternative use for the licensed technology. Additionally, we invested in $17.1 million Achillion s convertible preferred stock and agreed to make payments to Achillion upon achievement of certain milestones outlined in our
agreement as well as pay royalties on future net sales of products arising from this collaboration.      In October 2006, Achillion completed
an initial public offering and our convertible preferred stock was converted into shares of Achillion common stock. In 2008 and 2007, we recorded a write-down of $4.1 million and $7.0 million, respectively, as part of our review for
other-than-temporary impairment since the quoted market price of Achillion s common stock had been less than our cost basis for more than three consecutive quarters.       GlaxoSmithKline Inc.       In April 2002, we granted GSK
the right to commercialize Hepsera, our oral antiviral for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories. Under the agreement, we retained rights to Hepsera in the United States, Canada, Europe,
Australia, New Zealand and Turkey. GSK received exclusive rights to develop Hepsera solely for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in all of its territories, the most significant of which include China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. GSK has
full responsibility for the development and commercialization of Hepsera in its territories. Under the terms of the agreement, we received  
       
   110   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 an up-front license payment of $10.0 million and from 2002 to 2004, we received an aggregate of $17.0 million in milestone payments related to the commercial
approvals of Hepsera in various countries. In 2006, we received an aggregate of $10.0 million in milestone payments from GSK for the achievement by GSK of four consecutive quarters of Hepsera gross sales exceeding $75.0 million and the achievement
of a certain drug status in China. The up-front license fee and milestone payments have been recorded as deferred revenue with a total of $3.4 million, $3.6 million and $3.0 million being amortized into contract revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The $24.5 million balance of deferred revenue at December 31, 2008 is expected to be amortized into contract revenue over the period of our supply of Hepsera to GSK. Under the terms of the agreement, GSK is also required to pay us
royalties on net sales that GSK generates from sales of Hepsera and Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (GSK s hepatitis product) in the GSK territories. We recorded $27.5 million, $22.8 million and $16.1 million of royalty revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.      As a result of the acquisition of Myogen in November 2006, we assumed all rights to the March 2006 license and
distribution and supply agreements between Myogen and GSK. Under the terms of the license agreement, GSK received an exclusive sublicense to our rights to ambrisentan for certain hypertensive conditions in territories outside of the United States.
We received an up-front payment of $20.0 million and, subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are eligible to receive total additional milestone payments of $80.0 million. In addition, we will receive stepped royalties based on net
sales of ambrisentan in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for ambrisentan in the GSK territories during the term of the license agreement. We will continue to conduct
and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for ambrisentan in the United States, Canada and the European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional
development activities in its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the licensed field and each party will pay its share of external costs associated with such joint development.
In 2007, we received a milestone payment of $11.0 million from GSK for validation by the EMEA of the marketing authorization application for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, and in 2008, we received a $20.0 million milestone payment related to
the European Commission marketing authorization approval for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, marketed under the name Volibris by GSK. The milestone and up-front license payments have been recorded as deferred revenue and are being amortized
into contract revenue over the remaining period for which we have performance obligations under the agreement, which is approximately seven years. We amortized $5.0 million, $3.9 million and $2.5 million to contract revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.       

10.   
   LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS          Convertible Senior Notes    
  In April 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and $650.0 million principal amount of
convertible senior notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) in a private placement pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50%
and 0.625%, respectively. Debt issuance costs of $23.8 million in connection with the issuance of the Notes were recorded in other noncurrent assets and are being amortized to interest expense on a straight-line basis over the contractual terms of
the Notes. The aggregate principal amount of the Notes sold reflects the full exercise by the initial purchasers of their option to purchase additional Notes to cover over-allotments. The 2011 Notes may be convertible into our common stock based on
an initial conversion rate of 25.8048 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2011 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.75 per share). The 2013 Notes may be convertible into our common stock based on an initial
conversion rate of 26.2460 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2013 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.10 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances:
1) during any calendar quarter beginning after  
       
   111   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 September 30, 2006 if the closing price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the last 30 consecutive trading day period of the
previous quarter is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price per share, 2) if we make specified distributions to holders of our common stock or if specified corporate transactions occur, or 3) during the last month prior to maturity of the
applicable Notes. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the note or (ii) the conversion value for such note. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, we may also
deliver, at our option, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, we may be required to provide a make whole
premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100%
of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any. At December 31, 2008, the fair values of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes were approximately $886.4 million and $877.3 million, respectively, based on their
quoted market values.      Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, we purchased convertible note hedges in private transactions at a cost of
$379.1 million to cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 33.8 million shares of our common stock at strike prices that correspond to the initial conversion prices of the Notes. If the market value per share of our common stock
at the time of conversion of the Notes is above the strike price of the applicable convertible note hedges, we are entitled to receive from the counterparties in the transactions cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and common
stock, at our option, for the excess of the then market price of the common stock over the strike price of the convertible note hedges. The convertible note hedges will terminate upon the maturity of the related Notes or when none of the
related Notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. We also sold warrants to acquire 33.8 million shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, in private transactions and received net proceeds of
$235.5 million. If the market value of our common stock at the time of the exercise of the applicable warrants exceeds their respective strike prices, we will be required to net settle in cash or shares of our common stock, at our option, with the
respective counterparties for the value of the warrants in excess of the warrant strike prices. The maximum number of shares of common stock that could be issued by us should we choose to net share settle the warrants is 35.5 million shares, or
105% of the underlying share amount, which we have reserved for potential future issuance. The warrants have strike prices of $50.80 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2011) and $53.90 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2013) and are
exercisable only on the respective expiration dates. Taken together, the convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price
to $50.80 per share for the 2011 Notes and $53.90 per share for the 2013 Notes. The net cost of $143.7 million of the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions was recorded in stockholders  equity.      Because we have the choice of settling the convertible note hedges and warrants in cash or shares of our stock, and these contracts meet all of the
applicable criteria for equity classification as outlined in EITF Issue No. 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own Stock  (EITF 00-19), the cost of the convertible
note hedges and net proceeds from the sale of the warrants are classified in stockholders  equity. In addition, because both of these contracts are classified in stockholders  equity and are indexed to our own common stock, they are not
accounted for as derivatives under SFAS 133. We also recorded a deferred tax asset of $148.9 million in APIC for the effect of the future tax benefits related to the convertible note hedges in accordance with SFAS 109 and EITF Issue
No. 05-08,  Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a Beneficial Conversion Feature .      Contemporaneously with
the closing of the sale of the Notes, a portion of the net proceeds from the Notes  issuance and the proceeds of the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 16.7 million shares of our common stock for $544.9 million under our 2006
stock repurchase program.         
   112   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The terms of the Notes agreements require us to comply with certain covenants. As of
December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all such covenants.       Credit Facilities       In December 2005, we entered into an agreement with a syndicate of banks for a five year $500.0 million senior credit facility. The $500.0 million
facility consisted of an uncollateralized $300.0 million term loan, which was entered into by Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation (GBIC), one of our wholly-owned Irish subsidiaries, and an uncollateralized $200.0 million revolving credit
facility, which was entered into by the U.S. parent company, Gilead Sciences, Inc. The proceeds from the term loan were used by GBIC in December 2005 to facilitate a cash dividend distribution of $280.0 million to the U.S. parent company as part of
the repatriation of our qualified foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA). During the year ended December 31, 2007, we repaid $99.0 million, which represented the remaining amounts due under the term loan
at which time, the term loan was terminated.      Under the terms of the revolving credit facility entered into in December 2005, interest
accrued and was payable at a rate of LIBOR plus a tiered contractual rate of up to 50 basis points, and was payable quarterly in arrears. The U.S. parent company could prepay any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest on the prepaid
principal, at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium. Any outstanding interest or principal at December 2010 would be payable on demand. The capacity of the revolving credit facility would increase to a maximum of $500.0 million as
the term loan was repaid. We had the ability to irrevocably cancel any unutilized portion of the revolving credit facility, in whole or in part. Any proceeds obtained under the revolving credit facility were expected to be used for working capital,
capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit up to $25.0 million. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries was the guarantor.      In December 2007, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which superseded the existing revolving credit agreement above, with a
syndicate of banks to increase the credit facility to $1.25 billion. The amended and restated credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit, and was entered into by GBIC and the U.S. parent company. Under
the terms of the amended and restated credit agreement, we may borrow initially up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. Loans under the amended and restated credit agreement bear interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin
ranging from 20 basis points to 32 basis points or (ii) the base rate, as defined in the amended and restated credit agreement. We can prepay any outstanding borrowings at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium, and any
outstanding interest or principal would be due and payable in December 2012. In connection with the amended and restated credit agreement, the U.S. parent company entered into an agreement guaranteeing the obligations of GBIC under the amended and
restated credit agreement. We expect to use the proceeds of any loans under the amended and restated credit agreement for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2008, we had $3.7 million letters of
credit outstanding under the amended and restated credit agreement. We are required to comply with certain covenants under the amended and restated credit agreement and as of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all such covenants.

11.   
   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES          Lease Arrangements
      We have entered into various long-term non-cancelable operating leases for equipment and facilities. We lease facilities in Foster City
and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; Boulder and Westminster, Colorado; Seattle, Washington; the Dublin area of Ireland and the London area of the United Kingdom. We also  
       
   113   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 have operating leases for sales, marketing and administrative facilities in Europe, Canada and Australia. Our leases expire on various dates between 2009 and
2029. Our leases in Ireland and the United Kingdom are for 25 and 10 years, respectively, with rent subject to increase on the fifth anniversary of the respective commencement dates. Many of our facility leases have options to renew. Our equipment
leases include three corporate aircraft, with varying terms, with renewal options upon expiration of the lease terms.      Lease expense under
our operating leases totaled approximately $29.3 million in 2008, $28.8 million in 2007 and $24.4 million in 2006. Aggregate non-cancelable future minimum rental payments under operating leases for each of the years ending December 31 are
as follows (in thousands):       
     Legal Proceedings       On May 12, 2006, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California executed orders dismissing in its entirety and with prejudice the fourth consolidated amended complaint associated with a
purported class action lawsuit against us and our Chief Executive Officer; Chief Operating Officer; former Executive Vice President of Operations; Executive Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer; Senior Vice
President of Manufacturing; and Senior Vice President of Research, alleging that the defendants violated federal securities laws, specifically Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated by
the SEC, by making certain alleged false and misleading statements. On August 11, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the district court s decision and remanded the case to the district court. On
February 6, 2009, we filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States, requesting that the court review the judgment of the court of appeals. While the Supreme Court reviews our petition, the case continues
before the district court, and on February 13, 2009 we filed a further motion to dismiss the fourth consolidated amended complaint. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this case, and as such, no amounts have been accrued related to the
outcome of this case.      On November 29, 2006, we received a subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office in San Francisco
requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for Truvada, Viread and Emtriva. We have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry. It is not possible to predict the outcome of
this inquiry, and as such, no amounts have been accrued related to the outcome of this inquiry.      We are also a party to various other legal
actions that arose in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that any of these other legal actions will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position or results of operations.       Other Commitments       In August 2007, as a result of a
review of the terms under our existing corporate aircraft leases and upon consideration of the various alternatives available to us upon their expiration, we entered into agreements to  
       
   114   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 purchase three aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010 and 2013. The aggregate purchase price under the purchase agreements is $98.6 million. As of
December 31, 2008, we have made deposits totaling $7.4 million which have been recorded as other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future deposits due under the terms of the purchase agreements are as follows: $23.0 million
in 2009, $31.1 million in 2010, $4.1 million in 2011, $20.7 million in 2012 and $12.4 million in 2013. We have the option to terminate the purchase agreements, subject to a maximum payment of 7.5% of the fully equipped price of the aircraft.
     In the normal course of business, we enter into various firm purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain
inventory related items. As of December 31, 2008, commitments for the next five years were $635.6 million in 2009, $152.1 million in 2010, $127.2 million in 2011, $121.5 million in 2012 and $48.7 million in 2013. The amounts related to active
pharmaceutical ingredients only represent minimum purchase requirements. Actual payments for the purchases related to these active pharmaceutical ingredients were $1.04 billion, $548.3 million and $200.6 million during the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       

12.   
   STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY          Stock Repurchase Programs
      In March 2006, our Board of Directors (Board) authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00
billion over a two year period through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. In April
2006, we repurchased and retired 16,734,000 shares of our common stock at $32.57 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $544.9 million. In May and June 2007, we repurchased and retired an aggregate of 11,228,656 shares of our common stock
at an average purchase price of $40.51 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $454.9 million. The 2006 stock repurchase program expired in March 2008.      In October 2007, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $3.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or
privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This repurchase plan expires in December 2010. In 2007, we repurchased and retired 705,600 shares of our common stock at
$46.28 per share for an aggregate of $32.7 million under the $3.00 billion stock repurchase program.      In February 2008, we entered into an
accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution to repurchase $500.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of this accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $500.0 million to the financial
institution to settle the initial purchase transaction and received 9,373,548 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.34 per share. In June 2008, upon maturity of the agreement and in accordance with the share delivery provisions of the
agreement, we received an additional 239,612 shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the final
purchase price of our common stock from the accelerated share repurchase was $52.01 per share.      In accordance with EITF Issue
No. 99-7,  Accounting for an Accelerated Share Repurchase Program , we accounted for the accelerated share repurchase as two separate transactions: (a) as shares of common stock acquired in a treasury stock transaction
recorded on the transaction date and (b) as a forward contract indexed to our own common stock. As such, we accounted for the 9,373,548 shares that we received as a repurchase of our common stock and retired those shares immediately for net
income per share purposes. The 239,612 additional  
       
   115   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 shares that we received upon maturity of the contract in June 2008 were also recorded in stockholders  equity. We determined that the forward contract
indexed to our own common stock met all of the applicable criteria for equity classification in accordance with EITF 00-19, and therefore, the contract was not accounted for as a derivative under SFAS 133.      In October 2008, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock
on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $750.0 million to the financial institution to settle the initial purchase transaction and received 14,874,519 shares of our common stock at a price of
$50.42 per share. On or before April 2009, subject to extension under certain circumstances as well as the maximum and minimum share delivery provisions of the agreement, we may receive additional shares from the financial institution depending on
the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. After making the initial payment of $750.0 million, we are not obligated to deliver any cash or shares to
the financial institution except in certain limited circumstances in which case the method of delivery (cash or shares of our common stock) would be at our discretion. The accounting for this accelerated share repurchase was consistent with that of
our previous accelerated share repurchase.      In 2008, in addition to the common stock repurchased under the two accelerated share repurchase
transactions, we repurchased and retired 14,696,449 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $48.94 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $719.3 million through open market transactions. As of December 31, 2008, the
remaining authorized amount of stock repurchases that may be made under the $3.00 billion stock repurchase program which expires in December 2010 was $998.1 million.      We use the par value method of accounting for our stock repurchases. Under the par value method, common stock is first charged with the par value of the shares involved. The excess of the cost of shares acquired over
the par value is allocated to APIC based on an estimated average sales price per issued share with the excess amounts charged to retained earnings. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2007, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of
$26.9 million and charged $460.8 million to retained earnings. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2008, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $95.8 million and charged $1.88 billion to retained earnings.       Preferred Stock       We have 5,000,000 shares of
authorized preferred stock issuable in series. Our Board is authorized to determine the designation, powers, preferences and rights of any such series. We have designated 800,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for potential
issuance under our November 1994 rights agreement with BNY Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), as amended (the Rights Plan). There was no preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008
and 2007.       Rights Plan       The Rights Plan
provides for the distribution of a preferred stock purchase right as a dividend for each share of our common stock. The purchase rights are not currently exercisable. Under certain conditions involving an acquisition or proposed acquisition by any
person or group of 15% or more of our common stock, the purchase rights permit the holders (other than the 15% holder) to purchase our common stock at a 50% discount from the market price at that time, upon payment of a specified exercise price per
purchase right. In addition, in the event of certain business combinations, the purchase rights permit the purchase of the common stock of an acquirer at a 50% discount from the market price at that time. Under certain conditions, the purchase
rights may be redeemed  
       
   116   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 by the Board in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.0025 per purchase right. The purchase rights have no voting privileges and are attached to and
automatically trade with our common stock.      In October 1999, October 2003 and May 2006, the Board approved amendments to the Rights
Plan. The first amendment provided, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $15 to $100 and an extension of the term of the plan from November 2004 to October 2009. The second amendment
provides, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $100 to $400 and an extension of the term of the Rights Plan to October 2013. The third amendment was a clarifying amendment entered into in
connection with an increase in the designated number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for potential issuance under the Rights Plan in May 2006.       Stock Option Plans       In May 2004, our stockholders approved and we adopted our 2004 Equity Incentive
Plan (the 2004 Plan). Stock options under the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NeXstar), Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Triangle), Corus and Myogen stock option plans, which we assumed as a result of the acquisitions of NeXstar, Triangle, Corus, and
Myogen have been converted into our options to purchase our common stock effective with the closing of the respective acquisitions. The 2004 Plan is a broad based incentive plan that allows for the awards to be granted to our employees, directors
and consultants. The 2004 Plan provides for option grants designated as either non-qualified or incentive stock options. Prior to January 1, 2006, we granted both non-qualified and incentive stock options, but all stock options granted after
January 1, 2006 have been nonqualified stock options. Under the 2004 Plan, employee stock options generally vest over five years, are exercisable over a period not to exceed the contractual term of ten years from the date the stock options are
issued and are granted at prices not less than the fair value of our common stock on the grant date. Stock option exercises are settled with newly issued common stock from the 2004 Plan s previously authorized and available pool of shares. In
May 2008, our stockholders approved an increase of an additional 10,000,000 shares of common stock available for issuance under the 2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2008, a total of 101,591,941 shares of common stock have been authorized for
grant and 40,895,202 shares remain available for future grant under the 2004 Plan.      The following table summarizes activity under our stock
option plans. All option grants presented in the table had exercise prices not less than the fair value of the underlying common stock on the grant date (shares in thousands):       
       
   117   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006 was $551.7 million, $606.0 million and $427.5 million, respectively. The total fair value of stock options that vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $169.2 million, $193.2 million and $130.9 million,
respectively.      As of December 31, 2008, the number of options outstanding that are expected to vest, net of estimated future option
forfeitures in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R, was 23,647,802 with a weighted-average exercise price of $35.47, an aggregate intrinsic value of $377.0 million and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 8.0 years. The aggregate
intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2008 were $2.04 billion and $1.53 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted-average remaining contractual life for options
outstanding and stock options exercisable were 6.3 and 5.2 years, respectively.      The following is a summary of our stock options
outstanding and stock options exercisable at December 31, 2008 (options in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2008, there was $405.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related
to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.9 years.       Performance Shares and Restricted Stock
Awards       In January 2007, we granted 369,680 performance based share awards under the 2004 Plan. These awards were divided into three
tranches for both vesting and performance measurement purposes. Subject to our achievement of specified market and performance goals relative to a pre-determined peer group, these awards will vest over a three year period. The actual number of
shares of our common stock that we will ultimately issue will be calculated by multiplying the number of performance shares by a payout percentage ranging from 0% to 200%. Performance shares will vest only when a committee (or subcommittee) of our
Board has determined that we have achieved our specified market and performance goals. The fair value of the performance shares is estimated at grant date using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology. Stock-based compensation for these performance
shares is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods using a straight-line expense attribution approach reduced for estimated forfeitures. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the performance shares was $34.80 per share. We
recognized $3.9 million and $7.8 million of stock-based compensation expense in 2008 and 2007, respectively, relating to these performance shares.      In January 2008, we granted 219,690 performance based share awards with terms substantially similar to the awards granted in 2007 except that there was a single three year performance measurement and vesting period.  
       
   118   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 The weighted-average grant date fair value of the performance shares was $56.61 per share. We recognized $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense in
2008 relating to these performance shares.      We also granted restricted stock awards to certain of our employees under the 2004 Plan. The
vesting of certain of these awards is subject to the achievement of specified performance goals. The number of restricted stock awards issued to date has not been significant. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007 there were 46,001 and 58,000
nonvested outstanding awards, respectively.       Employee Stock Purchase Plan       Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (ESPP), employees can purchase shares of our common stock based on a percentage of their compensation
subject to certain limits. The purchase price per share is equal to the lower of 85% of the fair value of our common stock on the offering date or the purchase date. A two year look-back feature in our ESPP causes the offering period to reset if the
fair value of our common stock on the purchase date is less than that on the original offering date. ESPP purchases by employees are settled with newly issued common stock from the ESPP s previously authorized and available pool of shares. In
May 2007, our stockholders approved amendments to our ESPP to increase the number of shares authorized and reserved for issuance under the ESPP by an additional 8,000,000 shares of our common stock and to extend the term of the ESPP for an
additional ten years until January 2017. During 2008, 960,242 shares were issued under the ESPP for $30.4 million. A total of 33,280,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the ESPP, and there were 8,610,343 shares
available for issuance under the ESPP as of December 31, 2008.      As of December 31, 2008, there was $5.2 million of unrecognized
compensation cost related to ESPP, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average period of 0.7 years.       

13.   
   STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION         On January 1, 2006,
we adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R, which requires that all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on their fair values.      The table below summarizes stock-based compensation expense under SFAS 123R (in thousands, except per share amounts):       
       
   119   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we capitalized $9.9 million, $9.8
million and $10.2 million of stock-based compensation costs to inventory, respectively.      Stock-based compensation is recognized as expense
over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Operations using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for nonvested stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R and using the straight-line expense
attribution approach for stock options granted after the adoption of SFAS 123R. As stock-based compensation expense related to stock options recognized on adoption of SFAS 123R is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, gross expense has been
reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated forfeitures based on our
historical experience. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, pro forma information required under SFAS 123 included forfeitures as they occurred. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, we will only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based
compensation in APIC if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research
tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction through the Consolidated Statements of Operations rather than through APIC.       Valuation Assumptions
      Fair values of awards granted under our stock option plans and ESPP were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes
option valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and expected award life. In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123R, we refined the methodologies used to derive our valuation model assumptions. We used the
following assumptions to calculate the estimated fair value of the awards:       
    The fair value of stock options granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R was calculated using
the multiple option approach while the fair value of stock options granted beginning January 1, 2006 was calculated using the single option approach.      Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we used historical stock price volatility in connection with the Black-Scholes option valuation model. In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123R, we determined that a blend of
historical volatility along with implied volatility for traded options on our common stock is a better reflection of our expected volatility.         
   120   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The expected term of stock-based awards represents the weighted-average period the awards are
expected to remain outstanding. We estimate the weighted-average expected term based on historical cancellation and historical exercise data related to our stock options as well as the contractual term and vesting terms of the awards.      The risk-free interest rate is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the stock-based awards. The dividend yield is based on our
history and expectation of dividend payouts.       

14.   
   COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)         Comprehensive income
(loss) comprises net income (loss) and certain changes in stockholders  equity that are excluded from net income (loss), such as changes in the fair value of our outstanding effective cash flow hedges, changes in unrealized gains and losses on
our available-for-sale securities and changes in our cumulative foreign currency translation account. Comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is included in our Consolidated Statement of
Stockholders  Equity. The components of comprehensive income (loss) are shown net of related taxes where the underlying assets or liabilities are held in jurisdictions that are expected to generate a future tax benefit or liability.   
  The following reclassifications were recorded in connection with net realized gains (losses) on sales of securities and cash flow hedges that were
previously included in comprehensive income (loss) (in thousands):       
    The balance of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, as reported on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets consists of the following components (in thousands):       

15.   
   DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION         We operate in one business segment, which primarily focuses on the development and commercialization of human therapeutics for life threatening diseases. All products are included in one segment, because our major

121   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 products, Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva and AmBisome, which together accounted for substantially all of our total product sales for each of the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, have similar economic and other characteristics, including the nature of the products and production processes, type of customers, distribution methods and regulatory environment.      Product sales consist of the following (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes total revenues from external customers and collaboration partners
by geographic region (in thousands). Product sales and product related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on ship-to location. Royalty and non-product related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on the location of the
collaboration partner.       
    At December 31, 2008, the net book value of our property, plant and equipment in the United
States, Ireland and Canada was $353.4 million, $102.6 million and $57.5 million, respectively, which comprised approximately 97% of the total net book value of our property, plant and equipment.         
   122   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes revenues from our customers who individually accounted for 10% or more
of our total revenues (as a % of total revenues):       
     
    The provision for income taxes
consists of the following (in thousands):       
    Foreign pre-tax income was $903.0 million, $740.9 million and $461.6 million in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. The cumulative unremitted foreign earnings that are considered to be permanently invested outside the United States and for which no U.S. taxes have been provided, were approximately $1.94 billion and $1.10 billion as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The residual U.S. tax liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $678.3 million and $386.1 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   123   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The difference between the provision for income taxes and the amount computed by applying the U.S.
federal statutory income tax rate to income (loss) before provision for income taxes is as follows (in thousands):       
    Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):       
    The valuation allowance increased (decreased) by $(23.5) million, $0.3 million and $7.1 million
for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We have concluded, based on the standard set forth in SFAS 109, that it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefit from the deferred tax assets related to
certain state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2008, and therefore, we released the related valuation allowance resulting in a credit to goodwill of approximately $8.0 million and an income tax benefit of
approximately $15.5 million.         
   124   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   At December 31, 2008, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$67.0 million. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will start to expire in 2011, if not utilized. We also had federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $33.2 million which will start to expire in 2011 if not utilized. In addition,
we had state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $519.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively. The state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will start to expire in 2013 and 2017, respectively, if not
utilized.      Utilization of net operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations
provided in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. This annual limitation may result in the expiration of the net operating losses and credits before utilization.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For U.S. federal and California income tax
purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for all years from inception due to our utilization of net operating losses relating to prior years.      Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the 2003 and 2004 tax years and by various state and
foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income
among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.      As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $119.3 million and $111.7 million, respectively, including interest of $10.1 million and $8.3 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax
benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007, $111.1 million and $103.5 million, respectively, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. As permitted under the provisions of FIN 48, we have continued to classify
interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.      During 2008, we reached agreement with the IRS on several issues related to the examinations of our federal income tax returns for 2003 and 2004. As a result, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by $30.0 million.      As of December 31, 2008, we believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $56.0 million in the
next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash
settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.         
   125   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following is a rollforward of our total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands):       

17.   
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS         We maintain a
retirement savings plan under which eligible employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Gilead Plan). Under the Gilead Plan, employees may contribute up to 60% of their
eligible annual compensation, subject to IRS plan limits. We make matching contributions under the Gilead Plan. In 2008, we contributed up to 50% of an employee s contributions up to an annual maximum match of $5,000. In 2007 and 2006, we
contributed up to 50% of an employee s first 6% of contributions up to an annual maximum match of $3,500 and $2,500, respectively. Our total matching contribution expense under the Gilead Plan was $7.8 million in 2008, $4.5 million in 2007, and
$2.9 million in 2006.      We maintain a deferred compensation plan under which our directors and key employees may defer compensation for
income tax purposes. The deferred compensation plan is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan which is not subject to the qualification requirements under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Compensation deferred after
December 31, 2004 is subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, officers and other senior grade level employees may contribute up to 70% of their annual salaries and up to 100% of their annual
bonus while directors may contribute up to 100% of their annual retainer fee. Amounts deferred by participants are deposited with a rabbi trust and are recorded in other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Beginning in 2004,
directors may also elect to receive all or a portion of their annual cash retainer in phantom shares, which gives the participant the right to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of shares over a specified period of time and
which will be payable in shares of our common stock (with fractional shares paid out in cash) as established by the plan administrator. As of December 31, 2008, we had 20,289 phantom shares outstanding. Participants can elect one of several
distribution dates available under the plan at which they will receive their deferred compensation payment.         
   126   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

18.   
   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)         The
following amounts are in thousands, except per share amounts:       

(1)  
  In the second quarter of 2008, we recognized a $10.9 million charge for purchased IPR D associated with our acquisition of all of the assets of Navitas related to its
cicletanine business.           
   127   

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.         Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        

(1)  
  Allowances are for doubtful accounts, sales returns, cash discounts and chargebacks.     
       
   128   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

G ILEAD  S CIENCES , I NC .   

By:  
     
  / S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

John C. Martin              Chairman and Chief Executive Officer        
 
    POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John C. Martin and Gregg H. Alton, and each
of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and
to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or
their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN               John C. Martin    
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  (Principal Executive Officer)    
     
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON               Robin L. Washington    
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  (Principal Financial and Accounting   Officer)    
     
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    J AMES  M.
D ENNY               James M. Denny    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    P AUL 
B ERG               Paul Berg    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    J OHN  F.
C OGAN               John F. Cogan    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2009   

/ S /    E TIENNE  F.
D AVIGNON               Etienne F. Davignon    
      
    Director   
     
  February 27, 2009   
       
   129   

Table of Contents  

130   

<EX-10.26>
 2
 dex1026.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. 2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.26        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED OCTOBER 22, 2007        AND SUBSEQUENTLY AMENDED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008        AND OCTOBER 23, 2008    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

i   

ii   

1.   
   H ISTORY  O F  T HE  P LAN .          1.1 Successor Plan.  The Plan is the successor plan to the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2002, as amended (the  Prior Plan ). Effective as of
December 31, 2004, the Prior Plan was frozen, and no new contributions were permitted to be made to it;   provided, however,   that any deferrals made under the Prior Plan before January 1, 2005 will continue to be governed by
the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004. Any deferrals made under the Prior Plan after December 31, 2004 will be deemed to have been made under this Plan, and all such deferrals will accordingly be
governed by the terms and conditions of this Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.       1.2 Restatement.  The purpose of the
October 22, 2007 restatement, as subsequently amended effective January 1, 2008, is to evidence the documentary compliance of the Plan, effective retroactive to January 1, 2005, with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code, the Treasury Regulations issued under Section 409A and the interim guidance provided by the  Internal  Revenue and the Treasury Department prior to the publication of the final Section 409A Regulations. The
Plan as so restated was further amended on October 23, 2008 in order to allow commissions to be deferred and to effect certain clarifications to the distribution provisions.       

2.   
   P URPOSE  O F  T HE  P LAN .          2.1 Plan Purpose.  The Employer maintains the Plan, a deferred compensation plan, for the benefit of (i) a select group of management and other highly compensated employees of the Employer and (ii) the
non-employee members of the Employer s Board of Directors. Each other Participating Employer will also maintain the Plan as a deferred compensation plan for the benefit of a select group of its management personnel and other highly compensated
employees. The Participating Employers intend that the existence of the Trust will not alter the characterization of the Plan as  unfunded  for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ), and will not be deemed to provide income to Participants under the Plan prior to the actual payment of their vested accrued benefits hereunder. The Participating Employers intend that the Plan comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.       

3.   
   E FFECTIVE  D ATE  O F  T HE  P LAN .          3.1 Effective Date.  The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 2005, except as otherwise noted herein.         
   1   

4.   
   D EFINITIONS .          4.1
Definitions.        (a)  Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different
meaning is clearly required by the context:       (1)   Account  means an account established on the books of the
Employer for the purpose of recording amounts credited on behalf of a Participant pursuant to his or her Deferral Elections under the Plan and any income, expenses, gains or losses attributable to the deemed investment of such account in one or more
of the Investment Funds.       (2)   Administrator  means the Employer adopting the Plan, or other person
designated by the Employer.       (3)   Affiliated Company    means (i) the Employer and (ii) and
each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Employer, as determined in accordance with Section 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.       (4)   Annual Retainer  means the annual retainer fee payable to an Eligible Director.       (5)   Beneficiary  means the person or persons entitled under Section 10.1 to receive benefits under the Plan upon
the death of a Participant.       (6)   Board  means the Board of Directors of the Employer, as constituted from
time to time.       (7)   Bonus  means the bonus payable to an Eligible Employee pursuant to the Employer s
corporate bonus program.       (8)   Change of Control  will be deemed, consistent with Section 409A of the
Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder, to occur on the date that:       (A)  any one person, or more than
one person acting as a group (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), acquires ownership of stock of the Employer, that together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of
the total fair market value or total voting power of the outstanding stock of the Employer;   provided, however,   that if any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, is considered to own more than fifty percent
(50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the outstanding stock of the Employer, the acquisition of additional Employer stock by the same person or persons is not considered a Change of Control; or       (B)  any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined in Treasury Regulation
Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), acquires (or has acquired during the twelve-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) assets from the Employer that have a total  gross fair market value 
(as defined in  
       
   2   

Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii)(A)) equal to forty percent (40%) or more of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets
of the Employer immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions; or       (C)  any one person, or more than one
person acting as a group (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), acquires (or has acquired during the twelve-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) ownership of stock of
the Employer possessing thirty percent (30%) or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Employer; or       (D)  a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any twelve-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of such appointment or
election;   provided, however,   that for purposes of this subparagraph (D), no Change of Control will be deemed to have occurred if any other corporation is a majority stockholder of the Employer.       (9)   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.       (10)   Compensation  means Salary, Bonus, Commissions and Annual Retainer. Compensation will not include, among other
items, employee referral awards or severance payments. In addition, a Participant s Compensation shall not, for purposes of the Plan, include any item of compensation earned for a period of service rendered prior to the effective date of the
Deferral Election filed by the Participant with respect to that item.       (11)   Commissions  mean the
commissions earned by an Eligible Employee for services rendered in connection with the direct sale of products or services of the Company or any Affiliated Entity to unrelated parties, with the amount of such commissions to be determined either as
a percentage of the purchase price of those products or services or by reference to the volume of those sales.       (12)
  Deferral Election  means the irrevocable election filed by the Participant under Article V of the Plan pursuant to which a portion of his or her Compensation for the Plan Year is to be deferred in accordance with the provisions of the
Plan.       (13)   Eligible Director  means a non-employee member of the Board.       (14)   Eligible Employee  means any Employee who is either a highly compensated employee of the Employer or other
Participating Employer or part of its management personnel, as determined pursuant to guidelines established by the Administrator form time to time.       (15)   Employee  means any person in the employ of one or more members of the Employer Group, subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the
manner and method of performance.       (16)   Employer  means Gilead Sciences, Inc.         
   3   

(17)   Employer Group  means (i) the Employer and (ii) each of
the other members of the controlled group of corporations that includes the Employer, as determined in accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) for purposes of
determining the controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in such sections, and in applying
Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at
least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in Section 1.4.14(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations.       (18)
  ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.       (19)
  Extended Deferral Election  means a Participant s election, made in accordance with the terms and conditions of Section 9.2 of the Plan, to defer the distribution of his or her Account for an additional period of at least
five (5) years measured from the date or event on which that Account was scheduled to first become due and payable under the Plan.       (20)   Fee Period  means the applicable period of service over which the Annual Retainer subject to an Eligible Director s Deferral Election is to be earned and shall be determined in accordance
with Section 6.2 of the Plan.       (21)   Identification Date  means each December 31.       (22)   Investment Fund  means any actual investment fund which serves as the measure of the notional investment return on
all or any portion of an Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.       (23)   Investment Fund
Share  means the share, unit, or other evidence of ownership in a designated Investment Fund.       (24)
  Participant  means any Eligible Employee or Eligible Director who participates in the Plan through one or more Deferral Elections under Article V.       (25)   Participating Employer  means the Employer and any other Affiliated Company which has, with the consent of the
Administrator, adopted this Plan as a deferred compensation program for one or more of its Eligible Employees.       (26)
  Phantom Shares  mean an award denominated in shares of the Employer s common stock pursuant to which the award holder has the right to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of shares of the Employer s
common stock at a designated time or over a designated period and which will be payable in such shares issued under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Phantom Shares shall be a form of deemed investment under the Plan only with
respect to the Annual Retainers deferred hereunder by Eligible Directors.         
   4   

(27)   Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation
Plan, as set forth in this document and as subsequently amended from time to time.       (28)   Plan Year  means
the calendar year.       (29)   Prior Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as in
effect as of December 31, 2004. No additional Compensation may be deferred under the Prior Plan after December 31, 2004.       (30)   Salary  means an Eligible Employee s base salary.       (31)   Separation from
Service  means, for a Participant who is an Employee, such individual s cessation of Employee status by reason of his or her death, retirement or termination of employment. Such Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment at
such time as the level of his or her bona fide services to be performed as an Employee (or non-employee consultant or contractor) permanently decreases to a level that is not more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services he or
she rendered as an Employee during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or such shorter period for which he or she may have rendered such service). For an Eligible Director, a Separation from Service shall be deemed to occur when
such individual ceases to serve as a Board member. Any determination as to Separation from Service, however, shall be made in accordance with the applicable standards of the Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A. In addition to
the foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred while an Employee is on military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or any longer period
for which such Employee s right to reemployment with the Employer is provided either by statute or contract;   provided, however,   that in the event of an Employee s leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or
mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes such individual to be unable to perform his or her duties as an Employee, no Separation from Service
shall be deemed to occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated above) and the Employee s right to
reemployment is not provided either by statute or contract, then such Employee will be deemed to have Separated from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of such six (6)-month or twenty-nine (29)-month period.       (32)   Specified Employee  means an Eligible Employee who, at any time during the twelve (12)-month period ending on the
applicable Identification Date, is:       (A)  an officer of the Employer or any other Affiliated Company having aggregate
annual compensation from the Employer and/or one or more other Affiliated Companies greater than the compensation limit in effect at the time under Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i) of the Code, provided that no more than fifty such officers shall be
determined to be Key Employees as of any Identification Date;         
   5   

(B)  a five percent owner of the Employer or any other Affiliated Company ; or
      (C)  a one percent owner of the Employer or any other Affiliated Company who has aggregate annual compensation from
the Company and/or one or more other Affiliated Companies of more than $150,000.      The determination of such Specified Employees shall be in accordance with
the applicable standards and requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. If an Eligible Employee is identified as a Specified Key Employee on a Identification Date, then such Eligible Employee shall be
considered a Specified Employee for purposes of the Plan during the period beginning on the first April 1 following the Identification Date and ending on the next March 31.       (33)   Trust  means the trust created by the Employer.       (34)   Trust Agreement  means the agreement between the Employer and the Trustee, as set forth in a separate agreement,
under which assets are held, administered, and managed subject to the claims of the Employer s creditors in the event of the Employer s insolvency, until paid to the Participants and their Beneficiaries as specified in the Plan.
      (35)   Trust Fund  means the property held in the Trust by the Trustee.       (36)   Trustee  means the corporation or individuals appointed by the Employer to administer the Trust in accordance with
the Trust Agreement.       (37)   Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant
resulting from:       (A)  An illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse or Beneficiary or the
Participant s dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code); or       (B)  Loss of the Participant s
property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to the home not otherwise covered by insurance); or       (C)  Other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.      Financial hardship shall not constitute an Unforeseeable Emergency under the Plan to the extent that it is, or may be, relieved by (i) reimbursement or compensation, by insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation of the
Participant s assets to the extent that the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) cessation of deferrals under the Plan.       (b)  Pronouns used in the Plan are in the masculine gender but include the feminine gender unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.         
   6   

5.   
   E LIGIBILITY ; P ARTICIPATION .          5.1 Eligibility.  The Administrator (acting through an authorized committee of one or more officers or other senior executives) shall have absolute discretion in selecting the Eligible Employees who are to participate in the Plan for
each Plan Year. An Eligible Employee selected for participation for any Plan Year must, in order to participate in the Plan for that year, file a timely Deferral Election in accordance with the requirements of Section 6.1. An Eligible Employee
who is first selected for participation in the Plan after the start of a Plan Year and who has not otherwise been eligible for participation in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by
one or more Affiliated Companies may file a Deferral Election for that Plan Year in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.1. Until such time as the Administrator implements a new policy, any selection of new Participants
after the start of the Plan Year will be limited to the first business day of May of that Plan Year. Individuals who are selected for participation in the Plan, whether before or after the start of the Plan Year, shall be promptly notified by their
Participating Employer of their eligibility to participate in the Plan. Eligible Directors shall automatically be eligible to participate in the Plan during their period of service in such capacity, and their Deferral Elections shall be subject to
the same requirements set forth above for Employee Participants.       5.2 Continuation of Participation . Every Eligible Employee who
becomes a Participant may continue to file Deferral Elections under the Plan for one or more subsequent Plan Years until the   earliest   of (i) his or her exclusion from the Plan upon written notice from the Administrator,
(ii) his or her cessation of Eligible Employee status or (iii) the termination of the Plan. The Administrator shall have complete discretion to exclude one or more Eligible Employees from Participant status for one or more Plan Years as
the Administrator deems appropriate, including the entire period the Participant continues in Eligible Employee status following such exclusion. However, no such exclusion authorized by the Administrator shall become effective until the first day of
the first Plan Year coincident with or next following the date of the Administrator s determination to exclude the individual from such participation. If any Eligible Employee is excluded from Participant status for one or more Plan Years, then
such individual shall not be entitled to defer any part of his or her Compensation for those Plan Years.       5.3 Resumption of
Participation Following Separation from Service.  If a Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee or an Eligible Director due to a Separation from Service and thereafter returns to service with the Employer, such individual will again become a
Participant as of the first day of the first Plan Year coincident with or next following the date on which he or she resumes Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status, provided such individual files a timely a Deferral Election pursuant to
Section 6.1 with respect to that Plan Year. However, a Participant who returns to Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status after a Separation from Service of more than twenty-four (24) months during which he or she was not eligible to
defer any Compensation under this Plan or any other any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies shall, following resumption of such service, be permitted
to make a Deferral Election under Section 6.1 in accordance with the requirements applicable to a newly-selected Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.3, no returning Eligible Employee shall be eligible to
participate in the Plan if the Administrator determines to exclude such individual from participation on or before his or her resumption of service.         
   7   

5.4 Cessation or Resumption of Participation Following a Change in Status.  If any Participant
continues in the service of the Employer Group but ceases to be an Eligible Employee or Eligible Director, the individual will continue to be a Participant until the entire amount of his or her Account balance is distributed. However, any Deferral
Elections that may otherwise be in effect for such individual shall not apply to Compensation earned for the period that he or she is not an Eligible Employee or Eligible Director. In the event that the individual subsequently resumes Eligible
Employee or Eligible Director status in the same Plan Year, then his or her Deferral Elections for that Plan Year will immediately resume and apply to the Compensation subject to those elections that is earned for the period following such
resumption of Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status. In the event that the individual subsequently resumes Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status in a subsequent Plan Year, then he or she will again become eligible to defer his or her
Compensation under the Plan as of the first day the first Plan Year coincident with or next following the date of such resumption of Eligible Employee or Eligible Director status, provided such individual files a timely a Deferral Election pursuant
to Section 6.1 with respect to that Plan Year. However, an Eligible Employee shall not be eligible to make such a new Deferral Election following his or her resumption of Eligible Employee status in a subsequent Plan Year if the Administrator
determines to exclude such individual from participation on or before resumption of such status.          

6.   
   D EFERRAL  A ND  D ISTRIBUTION  E LECTIONS .          6.1 Deferral Elections for Employee Participants.  Each Eligible Employee selected for participation shall have the right to file a Deferral
Election with respect to the Salary, Commissions and/or Bonus to be earned by such Participant for service as an Eligible Employee during the Plan Year for which the Deferral Election is made. Each Deferral Election must be made by a written or
electronic notice filed with the Administrator or its designate in which the Participant shall indicate the percentage of Salary, Commissions and/or Bonus to be deferred in accordance with the applicable percentage limitations set forth in
Section 6.5. The notice must be filed on or before the expiration date of the enrollment period designated by the Administrator for the Plan Year for which the Deferral Election is to be effective, but in no event shall the Administrator allow
any Deferral Election to be filed later than the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the start of the Plan Year for which the Salary, Commissions and/or Bonus subject to that election are to be earned. However, the following special
rules shall be in effect for Deferral Elections:      (A) Commissions shall be deemed to be earned as a result of the
Participant s services in the Plan Year in which the sale to which those Commissions relate occurs. Accordingly, such Commissions shall only be deferred under the Plan to the extent the Participant has a Deferral Election covering Commissions
for that Plan Year.      (B) The Administrator may allow a Deferral Election with respect to a Bonus which qualifies as
performance-based compensation in accordance with the standards and requirements set forth in Section 1.409A-1(e) of the Treasury Regulations to be made by a Participant after the start of the Plan Year (or other performance period) to which
that Bonus pertains but not later than by a designated date that is at least six (6) months prior to the end of that Plan Year (or any longer performance period in effect for that Bonus).         
   8   

(C) An Eligible Employee who is first selected for participation in the Plan after the
start of a Plan Year and who has not otherwise been eligible for participation in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies must file his or her initial
Deferral Election no later than thirty (30) days after the date he or she is so selected. Such Deferral Election shall only be effective as follows:       

with respect to Salary and Commissions, such election shall be effective only for the portion thereof attributable to Employee service for the period commencing no
earlier than the first day of the first calendar month next following the filing of such Deferral Election and ending with the close of such Plan Year, and          

with respect to any Bonus, such election shall be effective only for the portion thereof determined by multiplying the dollar amount of such Bonus by a fraction,
the numerator of which is not more than the number of days remaining in the performance period applicable to that Bonus following the close of the calendar month in which the Participant s Deferral Election as to such Bonus is filed and the
denominator of which is the total number of days in that performance period;   provided, however,   that in the event any such Bonus qualifies as performance-based compensation and the Participant otherwise satisfies the applicable service
requirements of Section 1.409A-2(a)(8) of the Treasury Regulations, then the provisions of Subsection 6.1(A) shall also be applicable in determining the amount of such Bonus that may be deferred.          6.2 Deferral Elections for Eligible Directors.        (a)  Each Eligible Director shall have the right to file a Deferral Election with respect to the Annual Retainer to be earned by such Participant for service as an Eligible Director for the applicable Fee
Period. Each Deferral Election must be made by a written or electronic notice filed with the Administrator or its designee in which the Participant shall indicate the percentage of the Annual Retainer for the Fee Period to be deferred in accordance
with the percentage limitations set forth in Section 6.5. The notice must be filed on or before the expiration date of the enrollment period designated by the Administrator for the Fee Period for which the Deferral Election is to be effective,
but in no event shall the Administrator allow any Deferral Election to be filed later than the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Fee Period subject to that election will begin. For each Plan Year prior to
January 1, 2009, the applicable Fee Period covered by the Deferral Election shall be the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the first day of July of that Plan Year and ending on the last day of June in the succeeding Plan Year. However, the
Deferral Election filed for the 2009 Plan Year shall, as determined by the Administrator prior to the start of that Plan Year, cover either the six month Fee Period beginning on July 1, 2009 and ending December 31, 2009 or the twelve
(12)-month Fee Period beginning on July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2010. For each Plan Year beginning after December 31, 2009, the Fee Period shall be determined by the Administrator prior to the start of that Plan Year.   
     
   9   

(b)  An individual who first becomes an Eligible Director after the start of a Plan
Year and who has not otherwise been eligible for participation in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies must file his or her initial Deferral
Election no later than thirty (30) days after the date he or she is appointed or elected as an Eligible Director. Such Deferral Election shall only be effective with respect to the portion of the Annual Retainer attributable to Eligible
Director service for the period commencing with the first day of the first calendar month following the filing of such Deferral Election and ending on the last day of the Fee Period to which that Annual Retainer pertains.       6.3 Subsequent Elections.  After an initial Deferral Election is made, a new Deferral Election must be made prior to each subsequent Plan Year in
order for a Participant to continue participation in the Plan for that Plan Year. Each such subsequent Deferral Election shall be effective on the first day of the Plan Year following the Plan Year in which the election is made.       6.4 Additional Provisions.  The Deferral Election for an upcoming Plan Year shall become irrevocable upon the expiration date of the enrollment
period designated for that Plan Year, but in no event later than the last day of the immediately preceding Plan Year (or the last date on which the Deferral Election for the Plan Year may be filed under Section 6.1 or 6.2 by a newly-eligible
Participant or the last day on which a Deferral Election may be filed under Section 6.1(c) with respect to Bonus amounts qualifying as performance-based compensation), and no subsequent changes may be made to that Deferral Election once it
becomes irrevocable. The Account maintained on behalf of each Participant will be credited with the corresponding amount of Compensation deferred by that Participant, as and when that Compensation would have otherwise become payable in the absence
of his or her Deferral Election. Under no circumstances may a Deferral Election be made retroactively.       6.5 Deferral Percentages. 
      (a)  The minimum deferral per Plan Year will be determined by the Administrator.       (b)  A Participant who is an Eligible Employee may elect to defer (less any tax withholding requirements) up to 70% of Salary, up to
100% of Commissions and up to 100% of Bonus in any whole multiple of 1%.       (c)  A Participant who is an Eligible
Director may elect to defer up to 100%, in any whole multiple of 1%, of the Annual Retainer for the Fee Period.       (d)
 A Participant who is an Eligible Employee must also make satisfactory arrangements with his or her Participating Employer to assure the prompt collection of all withholding taxes applicable to the Compensation he or she elects to defer under the
Plan.       6.6 Special Elections in 2005 regarding Deferrals.  In accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1, Q A-20, on or before
March 15, 2005, Eligible Employees were permitted to make a Deferral Election with respect to the Bonus earned for the 2004 Plan Year. Deferral Elections made pursuant to this Section 6.6 are irrevocable and subject to any special
administrative rules imposed by the Administrator consistent with Section 409A of the Code and Notice 2005-1, Q A-20. No special election under this Section 6.6 will be permitted after March 15, 2005.         
   10   

6.7 Phantom Share Program for Directors.  Eligible Directors may, as part of their Deferral
Election, elect to have the Annual Retainer subject to that election deferred in the form of fully vested Phantom Shares issued under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. In the event of such election, the conversion of the deferred
Annual Retainer (or the deferred portion thereof) into such Phantom Shares shall be effected on the first day of the Fee Period to which the deferred Annual Retainer relates. At the time of distribution, the Phantom Shares shall be converted into
actual shares of Gilead Sciences, Inc. common stock issued under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan.       6.8 Distribution
Election.  The initial Deferral Election made by a Participant under this Section 6 must include an election as to the time and form of payment of all Compensation deferred by that Participant under the Plan, including the Compensation
deferred pursuant to that initial election and all Compensation deferred pursuant to one or more subsequent Deferral Elections. The permissible distribution events or triggers are as follow:       (a)  A Participant may elect to receive a distribution or commence distributions from his or her Account pursuant to Section 9
upon the attainment of one of the following ages: 75, 70, 65, 60, 55 and 50.       (b)  Alternatively, a Participant may
elect to receive a distribution or commence distributions from his or her Account pursuant to Section 9 either (i) five years following the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, (ii) two years following the date of
such Separation from Service or (iii) subject to Section 9.4, immediately following the date of such Separation from Service.       6.9 Special Distribution Election in 2006.  Participants may make a special distribution election to change the time and form of the distribution of their Account, provided that the distribution election is made at least twelve months
in advance of the newly elected distribution date and the previously scheduled distribution date and the election is made no later than December 31, 2006. An election made pursuant to this Section 6.9 shall be treated as an initial
distribution election and shall be subject to any special administrative rules imposed by the Administrator including rules intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and Notice 2005-1, Q A-19. No election under this Section 6.9
shall (i) change the payment date of any distribution otherwise scheduled to be paid in 2006 or cause a payment to be made in 2006 that was otherwise scheduled for payment in a later year or (ii) be permitted after December 31, 2006.
      6.10 Special Distribution Election in 2007.  Participants may make a special distribution election to change the time and form of
the distribution of their Account, provided that the distribution election is made at least twelve months in advance of the newly elected distribution date and the previously scheduled distribution date and the election is made no later than
December 31, 2007. An election made pursuant to this Section 6.10 shall be treated as an initial distribution election and shall be subject to any special administrative rules imposed by the Administrator, including rules intended to
comply with Section 409A of the Code. No election  
       
   11   

under this Section 6.10 shall (i) change the payment date of any distribution otherwise scheduled to be paid in 2007 or cause a payment to be made
in 2007 that was otherwise scheduled for payment in a later year or (ii) be permitted after December 31, 2007.       6.11 Special
Distribution Election in 2008.  Participants may make a special distribution election to change the time and form of the distribution of their Account, provided that the distribution election is made at least twelve months in advance of the newly
elected distribution date and the previously scheduled distribution date and the election is made no later than December 31, 2008. An election made pursuant to this Section 6.11 shall be treated as an initial distribution election and
shall be subject to any special administrative rules imposed by the Administrator, including rules intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. No election under this Section 6.11 shall (i) change the payment date of any
distribution otherwise scheduled to be paid in 2008 or cause a payment to be made in 2008 that was otherwise scheduled for payment in a later year or (ii) be permitted after December 31, 2008.       6.12 Election Form.  All Deferral Elections under this Section 6 will be made in a manner prescribed for these purposes by the Administrator.
      6.13 Time of Making Employer Contributions.  The Employer may from time to time make a transfer of assets to the Trustee for a Plan
Year. The Employer will provide the Trustee with information on the amount to be credited to the separate account of each Participant maintained under the Trust.         
   12   

7.   
   P ARTICIPANT  A CCOUNTS .          7.1 Individual Accounts.  An Account shall be established and maintained for each Participant which shall reflect the deferred Compensation credited to the Account on behalf of the Participant and the earnings, expenses, gains and
losses attributable to the deemed investment of that Account pursuant to Section 8. The Employer shall establish and maintain such other accounts and records as it decides in its discretion to be reasonably required or appropriate in order to
discharge its duties under the Plan. Participants will at all times be 100% vested in their Accounts. Participants will be furnished statements of their Account values at least once each Plan Year.       

8.   
   I NVESTMENT  O F  C ONTRIBUTIONS .          8.1 Available Investment Funds.  The Administrator (acting through an authorized committee of one or more officers or other senior executives) shall have absolute discretion to select the available Investments
Funds which Participants may choose as the measure of the notional investment return on their Accounts in accordance with Section 8.2 The available Investment Funds shall be set forth in Attachment A, as amended from time to time;
  provided, however  , that Eligible Directors who participate in the Plan may also direct the investment of their Accounts in Phantom Shares. All amounts credited to Participant Accounts shall be treated as though invested and reinvested
only in those available Investment Funds.       8.2 Investment Directives  Investments in which a Participant s Account shall be
treated as invested and reinvested as directed by the Participant. All dividends, interest, gains, losses and distributions of any nature earned with respect to the Investment Fund Shares in which the Account is deemed invested shall be credited to
the Account as though reinvested in additional shares of that Investment Fund. Expenses attributable to the acquisition of investments that mirror the deemed investments in a Participant s Account shall be charged to that Account.   
   8.3 Changes to Investment Funds . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8.3, the available Investment Funds set forth in Attachment
A shall include the same investment funds selected by the Company s Benefits Committee (the  Benefits Committee ) as available investment choices for participants in the Company s 401(k) Savings Plan (the  Savings
Plan ). Notwithstanding the forgoing, should any investment fund selected by the Benefits Committee for inclusion as an available investment fund under the Savings Plan not be available for Participants in this Plan, then Administrator (acting
through an authorized committee of one or more officers or other senior executives) shall have the authority to select an alternative investment option that is substantially similar to the unavailable investment fund. In all cases, the available
investment funds under the Plan shall automatically change from time to time to reflect any changes made to the available investment funds under the Savings Plan, with such changes to become effective as of the same date and time as the
corresponding changes are made to the available investment funds under the Saving Plan without the need for formal amendment under this Plan. Attachment A shall be updated from time to time to reflect such changes in investment options, and the
Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or his or her authorized delegate) shall have the authority to execute documents and provide instruction to the Plan s service providers with respect to the selection or modification of the Investment
Funds made available from time to time under the Plan. The foregoing provisions of this Section 8.3 shall not apply to the Phantom Shares in which Eligible Directors may elect to invest their Accounts.         
   13   

9.   
   D ISTRIBUTION  O F  B ENEFITS .          9.1 Distribution of Benefits to Participants.        (a)  Except as otherwise
provided in Section 9.1(c), distributions under the Plan will be made in a cash lump sum or under a systematic withdrawal plan over a period not exceeding ten years. Such form of distribution shall be determined in accordance with Sections 9.2
and 9.3. However, in the event of the Participant s death, whether before or after the distribution of his or her Account has commenced, the provisions of Section 10.1 shall apply.       (b)  Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.1(c), distributions under a systematic withdrawal plan must be made in annual
installments, in cash, over a period certain which does not extend for more than ten years. A systematic withdrawal plan may include a plan whereby one installment is elected. For purposes of the Plan, installment payments shall be treated as a
single aggregate distribution under Section 409A of the Code, and not as a series of individual installment payments.       (c)  Notwithstanding Sections 9.1(a) and (b), distributions under the Plan to Eligible Directors shall, to extent attributable to Phantom Shares credited to their Accounts, be distributed in shares of the Employer s common stock
issuable under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Distributions of such common stock may be in a lump sum or under a systematic withdrawal plan, as determined in accordance with Section 9.2 and 9.3.       9.2 Determination of Timing and Method of Distribution.  The Participant shall elect the timing and method of distribution for his or her Account.
Such election shall be made at the time the Participant makes his or her initial Deferral Election, or in accordance with Section 6.9, 6.10 or 6.11 (as applicable), and will apply to all amounts credited to the Participant s Account.
Effective as of January 1, 2009, a Participant may make an Extended Deferral Election by submitting a completed and executed election form approved by the Administrator for such purpose;   provided, however,   that such Extended
Deferral Election must be made at least twelve (12) months prior to the date the Participant s Account is otherwise scheduled to become payable pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 6 and the foregoing provisions of this
Section 9, and such Extended Deferral Election shall in no event become effective or otherwise have any force or applicability until the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date such election is filed with the
Administrator. Accordingly, the Extended Deferral Election shall become null and void if the pre-existing specified commencement date or event for the distribution of the Participant s Account occurs within that twelve (12)-month period. The
Extended Deferral Election must specify a commencement date in a Plan Year that is at least five (5) years later than the date on which the distribution of the Participant s Account would have otherwise been made or commenced in the
absence of the Extended Deferral Election. As part of the Extended Deferral Election, the Participant may also elect a different method of distribution, provided the selected method complies with one of the methods of distribution permissible for
that Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. Once the Extended Deferral Election becomes effective in accordance  
       
   14   

with the foregoing provisions of this Section 9.2, such election shall remain in effect, whether or not the Participant continues in Employee status;
  provided, however,   that in the event of the Participant s death, the provisions of Section 10.1 shall apply. A Participant may make only one Extended Deferral Election pursuant to this Section 9.2.       9.3 Default Distribution Election.  If the Participant does not elect the method of distribution, the method of distribution will be a lump sum
cash payment. Subject to Section 9.4 below, if the Participant does not elect the timing of the distribution, the Participant s Account balance will be distributed upon his or her Separation from Service.       9.4 Delayed Distribution to Specified Employees.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 9, a distribution made to a Participant
who is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her Separation from Service will be delayed for a minimum period of six months if the Participant s distribution is triggered by such Separation from Service. Any payment that otherwise would
have been made pursuant to this Section 9 during such period will be made in one lump sum payment not later than the last day of the eight month following the month in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The
determination of which Participants are Specified Employees will be made by the Administrator in accordance with Section 4.1(a)(21) of the Plan and Sections 416(i) and 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.       9.5 Unforeseeable Emergency.  Upon application by a Participant in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Administrator may its sole
discretion authorize payment of all or part of the Participant s Account in one lump sum payment no later than the last day of the second month following the month in which the distribution is approved by the Administrator. The Administrator
shall have complete discretion to accept or reject the request and shall in no event authorize a distribution from the Participant s Account in an amount in excess of that reasonably required to meet such financial hardship and the tax
liability attributable to that distribution. The minimum amount of a distribution due to a Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency will be $1,000.00.       9.6 Prohibition on Acceleration.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no distribution will be made from the Plan that would constitute an impermissible acceleration of payment as
defined in Section 409A(a)(3) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. However, the following mandatory distributions shall be made under the Plan:       (a)  If the aggregate balance of the Participant s Account is not greater than the applicable dollar amount in effect under
Code Section 402(g)(1)(B) at the time of the Participant s Separation from Service and the Participant is not otherwise at that time participating in any other non-qualified elective account balance plan subject to Code Section 409A
and maintained by one or more Affiliated Companies, then that balance shall be distributed to the Participant in a lump sum distribution on the date of his or her Separation from Service or as soon as administratively practical thereafter, whether
or not the Participant elected that form of distribution or distribution event, but in no event later than the   later   of (i) the end of the calendar year in which such Separation from Service occurs or (ii) the fifteenth
(15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of such Separation from Service, except to the extent a further deferral is required to comply with the delayed distribution requirements set forth in Section 9.4.
        
   15   

(b)  Should the aggregate present value of all of the remaining unpaid installments
due to a Participant who is receiving an installment distribution of his or her Account under the Plan fall below Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000), then those unpaid installments shall be paid to the Participant in a single lump sum within thirty
(30) days thereafter.       9.7 Adjustment for Investment Experience.  If any distribution under this Section 9 is not made in a
single lump sum payment, the amount remaining in the Account after the first installment payment will be subject to adjustment (until distributed) to reflect the income and gain or loss on the investments in which such Account is deemed invested
pursuant to Section 8 and any expenses properly charged under the Plan and Trust to such Account.       9.8 Notice to Trustee.  The
Administrator will notify the Trustee in writing whenever any Participant or Beneficiary is entitled to receive benefits under the Plan. The Administrator s notice will indicate the form, amount and frequency of benefits that such Participant
or Beneficiary will receive.       9.9 Time of Distribution.  Except as provided in Section 9.4, in no event shall a distribution to
a Participant be made or commence later than:       

the last day of the second month following the month in which the Participant attains the elected age specified in his or her initial Deferral Election (or any
distribution election under Section 6.8 or 6.9), or          

the last day of the second month following the month in which occurs the Participant s Separation from Service or any applicable anniversary of such Separation
from Service (if such event or anniversary is the designated distribution event for the Participant s Account), or          

the last day of the second month following the month in which the deferred commencement date designated in the Participant Extended Deferral Election occurs.

10.   
   E FFECT  O F  D EATH  O F  A P ARTICIPANT .          10.1 Distributions.  In the event of a Participant s death, whether before or after the distribution of his or her Account has commenced, the
entire unpaid balance of that Account shall be distributed to the Participant s Beneficiary in a single lump sum cash payment. Such distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after the date of the Participant s
death, but in no event later than the   later   of (i) the close of the calendar year in which the Participant s death occurs or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of
the Participant s death.         
   16   

10.2 Beneficiary Designation.        (a)  Upon enrollment in the Plan, each Participant shall file a prescribed form with the Administrator or its designate naming a
person or persons as the Beneficiary who will receive distributions payable under the Plan in the event of the Participant s death. If the Participant does not name a Beneficiary, or if none of the named Beneficiaries is living at the time
payment is due, then the Beneficiary shall be the Participant s spouse, or if none, the Participant s children in equal shares, or if none, the Participant s estate.       (b)  The Participant may change the designation of a Beneficiary at any time in accordance with procedures established by the
Administrator. Designation of a Beneficiary, or an amendment or revocation thereof, shall be effective only if made in the prescribed manner and received by the Administrator prior to the Participant s death.       

11.   
   E STABLISHMENT  O F  A T RUST .          11.1 Trust.  The Participating Employers shall be responsible for the payment of benefits under the Plan attributable to their respective Eligible Employees and Eligible Directors. At their discretion, the
Participating Employers may establish one or more grantor trusts for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits under the Plan;   provided, however,   that the establishment of such a trust shall not affect the status of the Plan
as an unfunded plan. Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Participating Employer s creditors in the event of its bankruptcy or insolvency. Benefits paid the Participants from any
such trust shall be considered paid by the Participating Employer for purposes of meeting that Participating Employer s obligations under the Plan. Notwithstanding the establishment of a trust, each Participating Employer reserves the right at
any time and from time to time to pay Plan benefits to Participants or their Beneficiaries in whole or in part from sources other than the Trust, in which case upon the Participating Employer s request, that Participating Employer shall receive
a distribution from the Trust in an amount equal to the amount paid by that Participating Employer from sources other than the Trust to the Participant or Beneficiary in satisfaction of its obligations under the Plan, provided that such distribution
shall not exceed the amount of Trust assets previously allocated to such Participant or Beneficiary.       11.2 General Duties of
Trustee.  The Trustee shall manage, invest and reinvest the Trust Fund as provided in the Trust Agreement. The Trustee shall collect the income on the Trust Fund and make distributions therefrom, all as provided in the Plan and in the Trust
Agreement.       

12.   
   A MENDMENT  A ND  T ERMINATION .          12.1 Amendment by Employer.  The Employer reserves the authority to amend the Plan in its sole discretion. Each such amendment will become effective on the designated effective date of that amendment. Any such
amendment notwithstanding, no Participant s Account will be reduced by such amendment below the amount to which the Participant would have been entitled had his or her Separation from Service occurred immediately prior to the date of the
amendment. The Employer may from time to time make any amendment to the Plan that may be necessary to satisfy applicable requirements of the Code or ERISA. The Board or other individual(s) designated by the Board may act on behalf of the Employer
for purposes of this  
       
   17   

Section 12.1. In no event shall any amendment to the Plan adversely affect the distribution provisions in effect for the Participant Accounts maintained
under the Plan, and all amounts deferred prior to the date of any such Plan amendment shall continue to become due and payable in accordance with the distribution provisions of Sections 6, 9 and 10 as in effect immediately prior to such amendment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or his or her authorized delegate) shall have the authority to adopt amendments to the Plan that are required by law or provide administrative practices or clarity
(specifically amendments not materially affecting either the financial obligation of the Company or the level of benefits provided to a Participant or a Beneficiary) through the Plan. Any such amendments made by the Senior Vice President, Human
Resources or his or her authorized delegate) shall be subject to the limitations set forth above.       12.2 Retroactive Amendments.  An
amendment made by the Employer in accordance with Section 12.1 may be made effective on a date prior to the first day of the Plan Year in which adopted, if such amendment is necessary or appropriate to enable the Plan and Trust to satisfy the
applicable requirements of the Code or ERISA or to conform the Plan to any change in federal law or to any regulations or ruling thereunder. Any retroactive amendment by the Employer will be subject to the provisions of Section 12.1. The Board
or any officer of the Company designated by the Board, including the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Employer for purposes of this Section 12.2         
   18   

12.3 Termination.  The Employer has adopted the Plan with the intention and expectation that
contributions will be continued indefinitely. However, the Employer has no obligation or liability whatsoever to maintain the Plan for any length of time and may suspend the Plan by discontinuing contributions under the Plan or terminate the Plan at
any time in its discretion without any liability hereunder for any such suspension or termination. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 12.3(a), (b) or (c) below, the termination of the Plan shall not affect the distribution provisions
in effect for the Participant Accounts maintained hereunder, and all amounts deferred prior to the date of any such Plan termination shall continue to become due and payable in accordance with the distribution provisions of Sections 6, 9 and 10 as
in effect immediately prior to such plan termination.       (a)  Except as provided in Sections 12.3(b) and (c) below,
in the event of a termination of the Plan during a period in which the Employer has not experienced a financial downturn, the Participant Accounts maintained under the Plan may, in the Employer s discretion, be distributed within the period
beginning twelve (12) months after the date the Plan is terminated and ending twenty-four (24) months after the date of such plan termination, or pursuant to Section 6, 9 or 10 of the Plan, if earlier. If the Plan is terminated and
Accounts are distributed, the Employer and the other Participating Employers shall also terminate and liquidate all other non-qualified elective account balance deferred compensation plans maintained by them and shall not adopt a new non-qualified
elective account balance deferred compensation plan for at least three (3) years after the date the Plan is terminated.       (b)  The Employer and the other Participating Employers may terminate the Plan thirty (30) days prior to or within twelve (12) months following a Change of Control and distribute, within the twelve (12)-month period
following the termination of the Plan, the Accounts of the Participants affected by such Change in Control If the Plan is terminated and Accounts are distributed, the Employer and the other Participating Employers shall also terminate all other
non-qualified elective account balance deferred compensation plans sponsored by them in which such Participants participate, and all of the benefits accrued under those terminated plans by such Participants shall be distributed to them within twelve
(12) months following the termination of such plans.       (c)  The Employer may terminate the Plan upon a corporate
dissolution of the Employer that is taxed under Section 331 of the Code or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 503(b)(1)(A), provided that the Participant Accounts are distributed and included in the gross
income of the Participants by the later of (i) the Plan Year in which the Plan terminates or (ii) the first Plan Year in which payment of the Accounts is administratively practicable.       
     13.1 Withholding
Taxes.  All distributions under the Plan shall be subject to reduction in order to reflect tax withholding obligations imposed by law.         
   19   

13.2 Participant s Unsecured Rights.  The Account of any Participant, and such
Participant s right to receive distributions from his or her Account, shall be considered an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Employer; such Accounts are unfunded bookkeeping entries. The Employer considers the Plan to be
unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. No Participant shall have an interest in, or make claim against, any specific asset of the Employer (or any other Participating Employer) pursuant to the Plan.       13.3 Limitation of Rights.  Neither the establishment of the Plan and the Trust, nor any amendment thereof, nor the creation of any fund or
account, nor the payment of any benefits, will be construed as giving to any Participant or other person any legal or equitable right against any Participating Employer, the Administrator or the Trustee, except as provided herein. In no event shall
the terms of employment or service of any Participant be modified or in any way affected hereby.       13.4 Nonalienability of Benefits. 
Except as provided in Sections 13.4(a) and (b) with respect to domestic relations orders, the benefits provided hereunder will not be subject to alienation, assignment, garnishment, attachment, execution or levy of any kind, either voluntarily
or involuntarily, and any attempt to cause such benefits to be so subjected will not be recognized, except to such extent as may be required by law.       (a)  The procedures established by the Administrator for the determination of the qualified status of domestic relations orders and for making distributions under qualified domestic relations orders, as provided
in Section 206(d) of ERISA, shall apply to the Plan, to the extent applicable.       (b)  To the extent required to
comply with a qualified domestic relations order, amounts awarded to an alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order shall be distributed in the form of a lump sum distribution as soon as administratively feasible following the
determination of the qualified status of the domestic relations order. To the extent that the qualified domestic relations order does not require an immediate lump sum distribution, the alternate payee shall have all rights regarding investment
elections and distribution elections and withdrawal rights as if such alternate payee were a Participant. For purposes of determining distributions to an alternate payee,  Separation from Service  shall be the Separation from Service of
the Participant whose Account is the subject of the qualified domestic relations order.       13.5 Facility of Payment.  In the event the
Administrator determines, on the basis of medical reports or other evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, that the recipient of any benefit payments under the Plan is incapable of handling his or her affairs by reason of minority, illness,
infirmity or other incapacity, the Administrator may direct the Trustee to disburse such payments to a person or institution designated by a court which has jurisdiction over such recipient or a person or institution otherwise having the legal
authority under state law for the care and control of such recipient. The receipt by such person or institution of any such payments will be complete acquittance therefore, and any such payment to the extent thereof, will discharge the liability of
the Participating Employer and the Trust for the payment of benefits hereunder to such recipient.         
   20   

13.6 Governing Law.  The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan shall
be governed by ERISA, and, to the extent that they are not preempted, by the laws of the State of California, excluding California s choice-of-law provisions.       13.7 Section 409A Compliance.  To the extent there is any ambiguity as to whether any provision of this Plan would otherwise contravene one or more requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A,
such provision shall be interpreted and applied in a manner that does not result in a violation of the applicable requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.       

14.   
   P LAN  A DMINISTRATION .          14.1 Powers and Responsibilities of the Administrator . The Administrator has the full power and the full responsibility to administer the Plan in all of its details. The Administrator s powers and responsibilities include, but
are not limited to, the following:       (a)  To make and enforce such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or
proper for the efficient administration of the Plan;       (b)  To interpret the Plan, with each such interpretation made
in good faith to be final and conclusive on all persons claiming benefits under the Plan;       (c)  To decide all
questions concerning the Plan, the eligibility of any person to participate in the Plan and the amount of benefits to which such person may be entitled under the Plan;       (d)  To administer the claims and review procedures specified in Section 14.2;       (e)  To compute the amount of benefits which will be payable to any Participant or Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of
the Plan;       (f)  To determine the person or persons to whom such benefits will be paid;       (g)  To authorize the payment of benefits;       (h)  To comply with the reporting and disclosure requirements of Part 1 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA;       (i)  To appoint such agents, counsel, accountants and consultants as may be required to assist in administering the Plan; and
      (j)  By written instrument, to allocate and delegate its responsibilities, including the formation of an
Administrative Committee to administer the Plan.       14.2 Claims and Review Procedure.        (a) Informal Resolution of Questions.  Any Participant or Beneficiary who has questions or concerns about his or her benefits under
the Plan may communicate with the Administrator. If this discussion does not give the Participant or Beneficiary satisfactory results, a formal claim for benefits may be made, within one year of the event giving rise to the claim, in accordance with
the procedures of this Section 14.2.         
   21   

(b) Formal Benefits Claim   Review by Administrator.  A Participant or
Beneficiary may make a written claim for his or her benefits under the Plan. The claim must be addressed to the Administrator, Deferred Compensation Plan, Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404. The Administrator
shall decide the action to be taken with respect to any such claim and may require additional information if necessary to process the claim. The Administrator shall review the claim and shall issue its decision, in writing, no later than ninety
(90) days after the date the claim is received, unless the circumstances require an extension of time. If such an extension is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the person making the claim within the initial ninety
(90-day period, and the notice shall state the circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Administrator expects to reach a decision on the claim. In no event shall the extension exceed a period of ninety (90) days from the
end of the initial period.       (c) Notice of Denied Claim.  If the Administrator denies a claim in whole or in part, the
Administrator shall provide the person making the claim with written notice of the denial within the period specified in Section 14.2(b) above. The notice shall set forth the specific reason for the denial, reference to the specific Plan
provisions upon which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim, an explanation of why such information is required, and an explanation of the Plan s appeal procedures and the
time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.       (d) Appeal to Administrator.        (1)  A person whose claim has been denied in whole or in part (or such person s authorized representative) may file an appeal of the decision in writing with the Administrator within sixty (60) days of
receipt of the notification of denial. The appeal must be addressed to: Administrator, Deferred Compensation Plan, Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404. The Administrator, for good cause shown, may extend the
period during which the appeal may be filed for another sixty (60) days. The appellant and/or his or her authorized representative shall be permitted to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim for
benefits. Upon request and free of charge, the applicant should be provided reasonable access to and copies of, all documents, records or other information relevant to the appellant s claim.       (2)  The Administrator s review shall take into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the
appellant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The Administrator shall not be restricted in its review to those provisions of the Plan cited in the
original denial of the claim.         
   22   

(3)  The Administrator shall issue a written decision within a reasonable period of
time but not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the appeal, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case the written decision shall be issued as soon as possible, but not later than one
hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of an appeal. If such an extension is required, written notice shall be furnished to the appellant within the initial sixty (60)-day period. This notice shall state the circumstances requiring the
extension and the date by which the Administrator expects to reach a decision on the appeal.       (4)  If the decision on
the appeal denies the claim in whole or in part written notice shall be furnished to the appellant. Such notice shall state the reason(s) for the denial, including references to specific Plan provisions upon which the denial was based. The notice
shall state that the appellant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim for benefits. The notice shall describe any voluntary
appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the appellant s right to obtain the information about such procedures. The notice shall also include a statement of the appellant s right to bring an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
      (5)  The decision of the Administrator on the appeal shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons and
shall be given the maximum possible deference allowed by law.       (e) Exhaustion of Remedies.  No legal or equitable
action for benefits under the Plan shall be brought unless and until the claimant has submitted a written claim for benefits in accordance with Section 14.2(b) above, has been notified that the claim is denied in accordance with
Section 14.2(c) above, has filed a written request for a review of the claim in accordance with Section 14.2(d) above, and has been notified in writing that the Administrator has affirmed the denial of the claim in accordance with
Section 14.2(d) above;   provided, however,   that an action for benefits may be brought after the Administrator has failed to act on the claim within the time prescribed in Section 14.2(b) and Section 14.2(d), respectively.
        
   23   

14.3 Execution and Signature.  To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has
caused its duly authorized officer to affix the corporate name hereto:        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Kristen M. Metza   

Kristen M. Metza   

Senior Vice President, Human Resources   

Dated: October 23, 2008   

24   

A TTACHMENT  A        P LAN  I NVESTMENT  F UNDS   AS   OF  O CTOBER  22, 2007        
     For Eligible Directors Only       Common Stock of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Phantom Shares)         
   25   

</EX-10.26>

<EX-10.27>
 3
 dex1027.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. SEVERANCE PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan 

Exhibit 10.27        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SEVERANCE PLAN        Adopted on March 23, 2004,        to be effective January 29, 2003  
      Amended and Restated on May 9, 2006,        to be effective January 1, 2005        Amended and Restated on May 8, 2007        to be effective May 8, 2007        Amended on February 8, 2008        to be effective January 1, 2008        Amended on May 7, 2008        to be
effective May 7, 2008        Amended on December 15, 2008        to be effective January 1, 2009    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

I.  
      
  INTRODUCTION  
      
  1   

II.  
      
  COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION  
      
  2   

III.  
      
  TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION  
      
  2   

IV.  
      
  SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT  
      
  2   

V.  
      
  TIME AND FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT  
      
  5   

VI.  
      
  DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT  
      
  7   

VII.  
      
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  
      
  7   

VIII.  
      
  NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS  
      
  9   

IX.  
      
  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS  
      
  9   

X.  
      
  LEGAL CONSTRUCTION  
      
  9   

XI.  
      
  ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN  
      
  10   

XII.  
      
  CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS  
      
  11   

XIII.  
      
  BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN  
      
  13   

XIV.  
      
  OTHER PLAN INFORMATION  
      
  13   

XV.  
      
  STATEMENT OF ERISA RIGHTS  
      
  14   

XVI.  
      
  AVAILABILITY OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION  
      
  15   

XVII.  
      
  DEFINITIONS  
      
  15   

XVIII.  
      
  EXECUTION  
      
  20   

APPENDIX A Chief Executive Officer Severance Benefits  
      
  21   

APPENDIX B Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President Severance Benefits  
      
  25   

APPENDIX C Vice President and Senior Advisor Severance Benefits  
      
  29   

APPENDIX D Severance Benefits for Eligible Employees other than Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President and Senior
Advisor  
      
  34   
       
   i   

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SEVERANCE PLAN        AND        SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION        (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1,
2009)        

I.  
  INTRODUCTION        The
Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan (the  Plan ) was originally adopted by the Company effective January 29, 2003, and was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2005, on May 9, 2006. The Plan was further
amended and restated on May 8, 2007 and subsequently amended in February and May 2008 in order to effect the following: (i) bring the Plan into documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Code and the final Treasury Regulations
thereunder and (ii) incorporate certain transitional relief in accordance with (A) Treasury Notice 2005-1, Q A-19, as modified by the preamble to the proposed and the final regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code,
published in the Federal Register on October 4, 2005 and April 17, 2007, respectively, and (B) Treasury Notice 2007-86. This Plan and Summary Plan Description as so amended and restated effects such full documentary compliance under
Section 409A of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations, effective January 1, 2009, and replaces all severance or similar plans or programs of the Company previously in effect. The Company has no severance or similar plan or
program other than this Plan.   1         The May 7, 2008
restatement of the Plan also revises the bonus component of the Severance Pay Benefit formulas in Appendix A, Appendix B and Appendix C to comply with Revenue Ruling 2008-13. Such amendment was effective as of May 7, 2008.      The Plan was further amended on December 15, 2008 to provide, effective as of January 1, 2009, that (i) the cash severance benefits to which individuals
covered by Appendix D may become entitled under the Plan shall be paid in a lump sum and (ii) the COBRA coverage costs that Participants may incur for the applicable period specified in Appendix A, B, C or D following their termination of
employment shall be paid in the form of a lump sum prepayment, subject to the Company s collection of the applicable withholding taxes.      The purpose
of the Plan is to provide a Severance Pay Benefit to certain Eligible Employees whose employment with the Company terminates under certain prescribed circumstances. The Company is the Plan Administrator for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). The Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.      Capitalized
terms used in this Plan shall have the meaning set forth in Section XVII.       

1      
    The Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Severance Plan remained in effect until January 23, 2004 and provided benefits
to employees of Triangle who were involuntarily terminated.            
   1   

II.  
  COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION        An Eligible Employee shall commence
participation in the Plan upon the later of (i) January 29, 2003 or (ii) his or her date of hire.       

III.  
  TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION        A Participant s participation in the
Plan shall terminate upon the occurrence of the earliest of the following:       

(a)  
  The Participant s employment terminates without meeting the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(1).         

(b)  
  The Participant s employment terminates with a provision of Section IV(a)(ii) being applicable.         

(c)  
  The Participant fails to meet the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(2).         

(d)  
  The Participant has received a complete distribution of his or her Severance Pay Benefit.         

(e)  
  The Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee (other than by reason of termination of his or her employment with the Company).         

(f)  
  The Plan terminates.         

IV.  
  SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT         

(a)  
  Eligibility for Severance Pay Benefit         

(i)  
  Subject to Section IV(a)(ii), a Participant shall be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit only if the Participant meets the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(1) and Section
IV(a)(i)(2).         

(1)  
  The Participant incurs a Separation from Service as a result of an involuntary termination of his or her Employee status by the Company because of a Company-wide or departmental
reorganization or a significant restructuring of the Participant s job duties; provided, however, that a Participant s Employee status shall also be deemed to have been involuntarily terminated by the Company if he or she resigns because
of (A) a transfer to a new work location that is more than 50 miles from his or her previous work location, and (B) in the case of a Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit is determined with reference to Appendix A, B or C, a Constructive
Termination (as defined in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan) in conjunction with a Change in Control and within the time specified in Appendix A, B or C, as applicable.           
   2   

(2)  
  The Participant executes the Release within the time frame prescribed therein, but in no event later than the forty-fifth (45th) day following his or her Separation from
Service, and the period (if any such period is prescribed in the Release) for revoking the execution of the Release under the Older Workers  Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C.   626(f), expires without the Participant s revocation of
such Release.        Under no circumstances shall a Participant be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan if he or she
terminates Employee status for the purpose of accepting employment with the entity that effectuates a Change in Control, its subsidiaries or affiliates.       

(ii)  
  Notwithstanding Section IV(a)(i), a Participant shall be disqualified from receiving a Severance Pay Benefit upon the occurrence of any of the following:     

(1)  
  The Participant voluntarily terminates Employee status for any reason prior to the termination date set by the Company;         

(2)  
  The Participant s Employee status is terminated by death or for cause (including, without limitation, gross misconduct or dereliction of duty) or for failure to meet
performance goals or objectives as determined by the Company;         

(3)  
  If the Participant is receiving short-term sick leave benefits on the date his or her Employee status terminates, the Participant fails to execute and deliver to the Company, within
thirty (30) days after his or her Separation from Service, a written waiver of any short-term sick leave benefits that might otherwise be payable after such termination of Employee status;         

(4)  
  The Participant terminates Employee status in order to accept employment with an organization that is wholly or partly owned (directly or indirectly) by the Company or an Affiliate;

(5)  
  The Participant accepts any job with a Buyer or Outsourcing Supplier;         

(6)  
  The Participant is offered full-time employment with a Buyer or Outsourcing Supplier at a new work location 50 miles or less from his or her previous work location with the Company
and taking such position would not result in a reduction in his or her Regular Earnings;         

(7)  
  Except in the case of a Severance Pay Benefit payable on account of a Change in Control of the Company, the Participant received a severance benefit in connection with an
acquisition effected by the Company within 24 months prior to his or her Separation from Service; or           
   3   

(8)  
  Except for a Severance Pay Benefit payable on account of a Change in Control of the Company, the Participant has not completed six months of Continuous Service as of the date of his
or her termination of Employee status; provided, however, that, effective May 8, 2007, such service requirement shall not be applicable to Employees who are Vice Presidents or in Grades 21 through 34.        The business decisions that may result in a Participant qualifying for a Severance Pay Benefit are decisions to be made by the Company in its sole
discretion. In making these decisions, similarly situated organizations, locations, functions, classifications, and/or Participants need not be treated in the same manner. Each Participant remains an employee at will, and the date selected by the
Company to terminate the Participant s Employee status is within its sole discretion.       

(b)  
  Amount of Severance Pay Benefit         

(i)  
  Subject to Section IV(b)(ii), the Severance Pay Benefit payable to a Participant shall be as set forth in the applicable Appendix:         

(1)  
  Appendix A   Chief Executive Officer.         

(2)  
  Appendix B   Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents.         

(3)  
  Appendix C   Vice Presidents and Senior Advisors         

(4)  
  Appendix D   All Eligible Employees not covered by Appendix A, B, or C.        Senior Advisors covered under Appendix C shall only be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit in connection with a Change in Control.       

(ii)  
  Notwithstanding Section IV(b)(i), the total Severance Pay Benefit otherwise payable to a Participant under the Plan shall be subject to reduction (but not below zero) as follows:

(1)  
  If a Participant is reemployed by the Company or an Affiliate within the number of weeks after his or her Separation from Service that is equal to the number of weeks taken into
consideration in calculating the Severance Pay Benefit, the total Severance Pay Benefit payable to such Participant shall be reduced to the dollar amount that the Participant s Regular Earnings would have been for the period from the date of
termination to the date of reemployment. In all cases, the reduced benefit will be based on the Participant s Regular Earnings used to calculate such Participant s Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan. A Participant will be considered
 reemployed  under the Plan for purposes of the foregoing repayment provision if he or she is rehired as an Employee or if he or she is retained at a Company facility as or through a contractor for more than a full-time equivalent of more
than 45 work days.           
   4   

(2)  
  If a Participant is employed by a Buyer or Outsourcing Vendor within the number of weeks after his or her Separation from Service that is equal to the number of weeks taken into
consideration in calculating the Severance Pay Benefit, the total Severance Pay Benefit payable to such Participant shall be reduced to the dollar amount that the Participant s Regular Earnings would have been for the period from the date of
termination to the date of employment with the Buyer or Outsourcing Vendor.        Section IV(b)(ii)(2) may be waived in writing by
the Company in its sole discretion.       

(3)  
  By severance pay or other similar benefits payable under any other plan or policy of the Company or an Affiliate or government required payment (other than unemployment compensation
under United States law), including, but not limited to, any benefit enhancement program adopted as part of a pension plan, but only to the extent the time and form of such alternative payments do not otherwise result in an impermissible
acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A of the Severance Pay Benefit payable under this Plan.         

(4)  
  By any amounts payable pursuant to the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ( WARN ) or any other similar federal, state or local statute.

(5)  
  By the amount of any indebtedness owed to the Company, but only to the extent such offset would not otherwise contravene any applicable limitations of Code Section 409A.

(c)  
  Repayment of the Severance Pay Benefit        If the Participant
has received payment under the Plan in excess of the Severance Pay Benefit, as reduced in accordance with Section IV(b)(ii), the Participant must agree as a condition of reemployment that such excess will be repaid to the Company within sixty
(60) days after the date his or her reemployment commences.       

V.  
  TIME AND FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT         

(a)  
    The Severance Pay Benefit for each Participant, other than a Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit is determined pursuant to Appendix D, shall be paid in equal
periodic installments over the total number of weeks taken into account in determining the amount of the Severance Pay Benefit to which such Participant is entitled. Except as set forth below, such installments shall be payable over the applicable
period on the regularly scheduled pay dates in effect for the Company s salaried employees, beginning with the first such pay date within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both
(A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to  
          
   5   

Section IV(a)(ii)(3) is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall the first such installment be paid later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day
period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked.

(b)  
  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the Severance Pay Benefit payable pursuant to Section V(a) above shall be deemed to be a series of separate payments, with each
installment of the Severance Pay Benefit to be treated as a separate payment.         

(c)  
  The Severance Pay Benefit for each Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit is determined pursuant to Appendix D shall be paid in a lump sum on the first regularly scheduled pay date
for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such lump sum payment be
made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV,
and have not been revoked.         

(d)  
  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section V or any other Section of the Plan, other than Section V(e) and (f) below, no Severance Pay Benefit that is deemed
to constitute  nonqualified deferred compensation  within the meaning of and subject to Section 409A of the Code shall commence with respect to a Participant until the earlier of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month
following the date of such Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) the date of his or her death, if the Participant is deemed at the time of such Separation from Service to be a Specified Employee   and   such delayed
commencement is otherwise required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, all payments deferred pursuant to this Section V(d) shall be paid in a lump sum
to the Participant, and any remaining Severance Pay Benefit shall be paid in accordance with the schedule described in Section V(a) above or in a lump sum to the extent such Severance Pay Benefit is to be paid pursuant to Section V(c) above.

(e)  
    Notwithstanding Section V(d), should a Participant who is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her Separation from Service become entitled to a General
Severance Pay Benefit prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, then the portion of that Severance Pay Benefit that does not exceed the dollar limit described below and is otherwise scheduled to be paid no later than the last day of the second
calendar year following the calendar year in which his or her Separation from Service occurs will not be subject to any deferred commencement date under Section V(c) and shall be paid to such Participant as it becomes due under Section V(a),
  provided and only if   such portion  
          
   6   

qualifies as an involuntary separation pay plan in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury
Regulations. For purposes of this paragraph (iii), the applicable dollar limitation will be equal to two (2) times the lesser of (A) the Participant s annualized compensation (based on his or her annual rate of pay for the taxable
year preceding the taxable year of his or her Separation from Service, adjusted to reflect any increase during that taxable year which was expected to continue indefinitely had such Separation from Service not occurred) or (B) the compensation
limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code as in effect in the year of the Separation from Service. To the extent the portion of the Severance Pay Benefit to which such Participant would otherwise be entitled under Section V(a) during the
deferral period under Section V(c) exceeds the foregoing dollar limitation, such excess shall be paid in a lump sum upon the expiration of that deferral period, in accordance with the payment delay provisions of Section V(c), and the remainder of
the Severance Pay Benefit (if any) shall be paid in accordance with the schedule described in Section V(a). In no event, however, shall this Section V(d) be applicable to any Severance Pay Benefit (or any portion thereof) which does not qualify as
an involuntary separation pay plan under Section 1.409A-(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations.          

(f)  
  Section V(d) shall not apply to the lump sum prepayment of COBRA Coverage Costs under Appendix A through D to the extent the dollar amount of that prepayment does not exceed the
applicable dollar amount in effect under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code for the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation form Service occurs.         

(g)  
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no distribution shall be made from the Plan that would constitute an impermissible acceleration of payment as
defined in Section 409A(3) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.         

(h)  
  No interest shall be paid on a Severance Pay Benefit required to be deferred in accordance with the foregoing.         

VI.  
  DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT        If a Participant dies after
qualifying for a Severance Pay Benefit but before such benefit is completely paid, the balance of the Severance Pay Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary not later than the later of (i) December 31 of
the year in which the Participant s death occurred or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of the Participant s death.       

VII.  
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION         

(a)  
  General Rule.        Although the Company expects to continue
the Plan indefinitely, inasmuch as future conditions cannot be foreseen, (subject to Sections VII(b) and (c)) the Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of its board of directors or by action of a committee
or individual(s) acting pursuant to a valid delegation of  
       
   7   

authority of the board of directors. However, no amendment or termination shall adversely affect the right of a Participant who incurs a Separation from
Service prior to the date of such amendment or termination to:       

(i)  
  receive the unpaid balance of any Severance Pay Benefit that has become payable in accordance with the foregoing provisions of the Plan, with such balance to be paid in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan in effect immediately prior to such amendment or termination; or         

(ii)  
  qualify for a Severance Pay Benefit upon the timely execution and delivery of the requisite Release after the date of such amendment or termination.         

(b)  
  Restrictions on Amendments.        Notwithstanding Section
VII(a) of the Plan, and except to the extent required to comply with applicable law, no termination of the Plan and no amendment described below shall be effective if adopted within six months before or at any time after the public announcement of
an event or proposed transaction which would constitute a Change in Control (as such term is defined prior to such amendment); provided, however, that such an amendment or termination of the Plan may be effected, even if adopted after such a public
announcement, if (a) the amendment or termination is adopted after any plans have been abandoned to cause the event or effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted the Change in Control, and the event which would have
constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such adoption, no other event constituting a Change in Control has occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed transaction which would
constitute a Change in Control has been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred.      The amendments prohibited by this Section VII(b) include any amendment which is executed (or would otherwise become effective) at the request of a third
party who effectuates a Change in Control or any amendment which, if adopted and given effect would:       

(i)  
  Deprive any individual who is an Eligible Employee as of the Change in Control of coverage under the Plan as in effect at the time of such amendment;         

(ii)  
  Limit eligibility for or reduce the amount of any Severance Pay Benefit; or         

(iii)  
  Amend Section VII, IX, or the definitions of the terms  Change in Control  or  Successors and Assigns  in Section XVII of the Plan.        No person shall take any action that would directly or indirectly have the same effect as any of the prohibited amendments or termination described in
this Section VII(b).         
   8   

(c)  
  No Change in Payment Schedule        Under no circumstances
shall any amendment or termination of the Plan affect or modify the payment schedule in effect for a Participant s Severance Pay Benefit in a manner which would otherwise result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of that payment
schedule under Code Section 409A.       

(d)  
  Amendments to Comply with Section 409A of the Code.        Notwithstanding any provision of Section VII to the contrary, the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify this Plan as may be necessary to
ensure the Severance Pay Benefits provided under this Plan are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from, or otherwise complies with, Section 409A of the Code; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the
Severance Pay Benefit provided under this Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to the Severance Pay Benefits provided under this Plan.
     To the extent there is any ambiguity as to whether any provision of this Plan would otherwise contravene one or more requirements or
limitations of Code Section 409A applicable to the Plan, such provision shall be interpreted and applied in a manner that does not result in a violation of the applicable requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A and the Treasury
Regulations thereunder.       

VIII.   
  NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS        To the full extent permitted
by law and except as expressly provided in the Plan, no Severance Pay Benefit shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.       

IX.  
  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS        The Plan shall be binding upon the
Company, its Successors and Assigns. Notwithstanding that the Plan may be binding upon such Successors and Assigns by operation of law, the Company shall require any Successor or Assign to expressly assume and agree to be bound by the Plan in the
same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be if no succession or assignment had taken place.       

X.  
  LEGAL CONSTRUCTION        This Plan is governed by and shall be
construed in accordance with the Code and ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, with the laws of the State of California.         
   9   

XI.  
  ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN         

(a)  
  Plan Sponsor and Plan Administrator.        The Company is the
 Plan Sponsor  and the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan as such terms are used in ERISA.       

(b)  
  Administrative Power and Responsibility.        The Company in
its capacity as Plan Administrator of the Plan is the named fiduciary that has the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan. The Company shall make such rules, regulations, interpretations, and computations and
shall take such other action to administer the Plan as it may deem appropriate. The Company shall have the sole discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to determine eligibility for benefits pursuant to the objective criteria set forth
in the Plan. In administering the Plan, the Company shall at all times discharge its duties with respect to the Plan in accordance with the standards set forth in section 404(a)(l) of ERISA. The Company may engage the services of such persons or
organizations to render advice or perform services with respect to its responsibilities under the Plan as it shall determine to be necessary or appropriate. Such persons or organizations may include (without limitation) actuaries, attorneys,
accountants and consultants.       

(c)  
  Review Panel.        Upon receipt of a request for review, the
Company shall appoint a Review Panel that shall consist of three or more individuals. The Review Panel shall be the named fiduciary that shall have authority to act with respect to appeals from denial of benefits under the Plan.       

(d)  
  Service in More Than One Fiduciary Capacity.        Any person
or group of persons may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity with respect to the Plan.       

(e)  
  Performance of Responsibilities.        The responsibilities of
the Company under the Plan shall be carried out on its behalf by its officers, employees, and agents. The Company may delegate any of its fiduciary responsibilities under the Plan to another person or persons pursuant to a written instrument that
specifies the fiduciary responsibilities so delegated to each such person.       

(f)  
  Employee Communications and Other Plan Activities.        In
communications with its employees and in any other activities relating to the Plan, the Company shall comply with the rules, regulations, interpretations, computations, and instructions that were issued to administer the Plan. With respect to
matters relating  
       
   10   

to the Plan, directors, officers, and employees of the Company shall act on behalf or in the name of the Company in their capacity as directors, officers,
and employees and not as individual fiduciaries.       

XII.   
  CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS         

(a)  
  Claims for Benefits and Inquiries.        All claims for
benefits and all inquiries concerning the Plan or present or future rights to benefits under the Plan, shall be submitted to the Plan Administrator in writing and addressed as follows:  Gilead Sciences, Inc., Plan Administrator under the Gilead
Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404   or such other location as communicated to the Participant. A claim for benefits shall be signed by the Participant, or if a Participant is deceased, by such
Participant s spouse or registered domestic partner, designated beneficiary or estate, as the case may be.       

(b)  
  Denials of Claims.        In the event that any claim for
benefits is denied, in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing of such denial and of the right to a review thereof. Such written notice shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant,
specific reasons for such denial, specific references to the Plan provision on which such denial is based, a description of any information or material necessary to perfect the claim, an explanation of why such material is necessary, an explanation
of the Plan s review procedure which includes information on how to appeal the denial and a statement regarding the claimant s right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review.
Such written notice shall be given to the claimant within 90 days after the Plan Administrator receives the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time of up to an additional 90 days for processing the claim. If such an
extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. This notice of extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the
extension of time and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render its decision on the claim for benefits. The claimant shall be permitted to appeal such denial in accordance with the Review Procedure set forth below.       

(c)  
  Review Panel.        The Plan Administrator shall appoint a
 Review Panel,  consisting of three or more individuals who may (but need not) be employees of the Company. The Review Panel shall be the named fiduciary that has the authority to act with respect to any appeal from a denial of benefits.
        
   11   

(d)  
  Requests for a Review.        Any person whose claim for
benefits is denied in whole or in part, or such person s duly authorized representative, may appeal from such denial by submitting a request for a review of the claim to the Review Panel within 60 days after receiving written notice of such
denial from the Plan Administrator. A request for review shall be in writing and shall be addressed as follows:  Review Panel under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404  or such other location
as communicated to the Participant. A request for review shall set forth all of the grounds on which it is based, all facts in support of the request and any other matters that the claimant deems pertinent. As part of the review procedure, the
claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative may submit written comments, documents, records and other information related to the claim. The Review Panel will consider all comments, documents, records and other information
submitted by the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The claimant will be provided, upon
request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records or other information (all of which must not be privileged) relevant to the benefit claim. The Review Panel may require the claimant to submit such additional
facts, documents or other material as it may deem necessary or appropriate in making its review.       

(e)  
  Decision on Review.        The Review Panel shall act on each
request for review and notify the claimant within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of time, up to an additional 60 days, for processing the request. If such an extension for review is required, written
notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant within the initial 60-day period. The Review Panel shall give prompt, written notice of its decision to the claimant and to the Plan Administrator. In the event that the Review Panel
confirms the denial of the claim for benefits, in whole or in part, such notice shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, specific references to the Plan provisions on which the
decision is based, a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to the benefit claim, a statement describing any
voluntary appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the claimant s right to obtain information about such procedures, and a statement informing the claimant of his or her right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a).       

(f)  
  Rules and Procedures.        The Review Panel shall establish
such rules and procedures, consistent with the Plan and with ERISA, as it may deem necessary or appropriate in carrying out its responsibilities under this Section XII. The Review Panel may require a claimant who wishes to submit additional
information in connection with an appeal from the denial of benefits to do so at the claimant s own expense.         
   12   

(g)  
  Exhaustion of Remedies.        No legal action for benefits
under the Plan shall be brought unless and until the claimant:       

(i)  
  has submitted a written claim for benefits in accordance with Section XII(a);         

(ii)  
  has been notified by the Plan Administrator that the claim is denied;         

(iii)  
  has filed a written request for a review of the claim in accordance with Section XII(d); and         

(iv)  
  has been notified in writing that the Review Panel has affirmed the denial of the claim.         

XIII.   
  BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN        All Severance Pay
Benefits under the Plan shall be paid by the Company. The Plan shall be unfunded and benefits hereunder shall be paid only from the general assets of the Company.       

XIV.   
  OTHER PLAN INFORMATION         

(a)  
  Plan Identification Numbers.        The Employer Identification
Number (EIN) assigned to the Plan Sponsor (Gilead Sciences, Inc.) by the Internal Revenue Service is 94-3047598. The Plan Number (PN) assigned to the Plan by the Plan Sponsor pursuant to instructions of the Internal Revenue Service is 508.

(b)  
  Ending Date of the Plan s Fiscal Year.        The date of
the end of the year for the purpose of maintaining the Plan s fiscal records is December 31.       

(c)  
  Agent for the Service of Legal Process.        The agent for the
service of legal process with respect to the Plan is the Secretary of Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404. The service of legal process may also be made on the Plan by serving the Plan Administrator.       

(d)  
  Plan Sponsor and Administrator.        The  Plan
Sponsor  and the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan is Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404; 650-522-5800 or such other location as communicated to the Participant. The Plan Administrator is the named
fiduciary charged with responsibility for administering the Plan.         
   13   

XV.   
  STATEMENT OF ERISA RIGHTS         

(a)  
  As a participant in this Plan (which is a welfare plan sponsored by the Company), you are entitled to the following rights and protection under ERISA:         

(b)  
  Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other specified locations such as work sites, all Plan documents, collective bargaining agreements and copies
of all documents filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.         

(c)  
  Obtain copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written request to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.

(d)  
  In addition to creating rights for Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people responsible for the operation of the employee benefit Plan. The people who operate your
Plan, called  fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and Beneficiaries.         

(e)  
  No one, including your employer, your union, nor any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a Plan benefit or
exercising your rights under ERISA. If your claim for a Plan benefit is denied in whole or in part, you must receive a written explanation of the reason for the denial. You have the right to have the claim reviewed and reconsidered.

(f)  
  Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if you request materials from the Plan and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit
in a federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the
Plan Administrator. If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that the Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan s money, or if you are
discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court
may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.         

(g)  
  If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should
contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor,
200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
          
   14   

XVI.   
  AVAILABILITY OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION        ERISA
requires Gilead Sciences, Inc., as the Plan Administrator of a benefit plan sponsored by the Company, to make available for your examination the Plan documents under which the Plan is established and operated.      The pertinent Plan documents include official Plan texts and any other documents under which the Plan is established or operated, and applicable
collective bargaining agreements.      These Plan documents are available for your examination at the Plan Administrator s office, 333
Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404, and at certain other locations such as the Company s Human Resources offices.       

XVII.   
  DEFINITIONS         

(a)  
   Affiliate  means a member of the Affiliated Group other than Gilead Sciences, Inc. and any Subsidiary.         

(b)  
   Affiliated Group  means the Company and each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Company, as determined in
accordance with Section 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.         

(c)  
   Beneficiary  means the person or persons so designated by a Participant. A Participant may change or revoke a designation of a Beneficiary at any time. To be effective,
any designation of a Beneficiary, or any change or revocation thereof, must be made in writing on the prescribed form and must be received by the Company (in a form acceptable to the Company) before the Participant s death. If a Participant
fails to make a valid designation of a Beneficiary, or if the validly designated Beneficiary is not living when a payment is to be made to such Beneficiary hereunder, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the Participant s spouse or
registered domestic partner if then living or, if not, the Participant s estate.         

(d)  
   Buyer  means an entity that purchases (or has purchased) some or all of the Affiliated Group s interest applicable to the operation in which the Participant is
employed, or an entity that is a direct or indirect successor in ownership or management of the operation in which the Participant is employed. Notwithstanding the above, Buyer shall not include the entity that effectuates a Change in Control.

(e)  
   Change in Control  means an event which constitutes a change in control of the Company as defined in Section 2(i) of the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time or any successor to such provision.         

(f)  
   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.           
   15   

(g)  
   Company  means Gilead Sciences, Inc. Where the context requires,  Company  also includes its Subsidiaries, and any of their Successors and Assigns.

(h)  
   Continuous Service  means the sum of the following:         

(i)  
  Any period of time during which a person qualifies as an Eligible Employee or, having once so qualified, is on a leave of absence with pay, a paid vacation or holiday or is
receiving benefits under the Company s short-term disability plan; or;         

(ii)  
  Any other period that constitutes Continuous Service under written rules or procedures adopted from time to time by the Company, subject to such terms and conditions as the Company
may establish; and any period of time while employed by the Company s Successor or Assigns that that would have constituted Continuous Service if the service had been with the Company prior to the Change in Control.        If an Eligible Employee s Continuous Service is interrupted and the Eligible Employee subsequently returns to a status that constitutes Continuous
Service, such prior Continuous Service shall be disregarded for all purposes of the Plan, except that if an Eligible Employee is reemployed within one year following termination of Continuous Service, all prior Continuous Service and the time period
between the date of termination and reemployment will be considered Continuous Service.       

(i)  
   Determination Date  means each December 31.         

(j)  
   Eligible Employee  means any common law employee on the U.S. dollar payroll of the Company or any Subsidiary who (i) is not on the payroll of a person other than the
Company or such Subsidiary and is for any reason deemed by the Company or any Subsidiary to be a common law employee of the Company or such Subsidiary; (ii) is not considered by the Company or any Subsidiary in its sole discretion to be an
independent contractor, regardless of whether the individual is in fact a common law employee of the Company or such Subsidiary; and (iii) who at the time of his or her Separation from Service with the Company or such Subsidiary is not on a
Leave of Absence Without Pay. An individual s status as an Eligible Employee shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion, and such determination shall be conclusively binding on all persons. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
 Eligible Employee  does not include an employee or former employee of an entity the stock or assets of which are acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary, unless and until the Company s management determines that the Plan shall be
applicable to such employees or former employees.         

(k)  
     Employer Group  means the Company and each other member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Company, as
determined in accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining the controlled group of
corporations under Section 414(b), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place  
          
   16   

the latter phrase appears in such sections, and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining trades or
businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in Section 1.4.14(c)-2 of the
Treasury Regulations.          

(l)  
   Employee  means an individual for so long as he or she is in the employ of at least one member of the Employer Group, subject to the control and direction of the employer
entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.         

(m)  
   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time-to-time.         

(n)  
   Family Leave  means a leave under the Company s family leave policy.         

(o)  
   Leave of Absence Without Pay  means a leave of absence without pay under the Company s leave of absence policy.         

(p)  
   Outsourcing Supplier  means an entity to whom the Company outsources a function performed by Eligible Employees where the Company agrees with such entity in the
outsourcing agreement that it will offer jobs to current Eligible Employees performing that function for the Company.         

(q)  
   Participant  means any Eligible Employee who has commenced participation in the Plan pursuant to Section II and whose participation has not terminated pursuant to Section
III.         

(r)  
   Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan.         

(s)  
   Plan Administrator  means the Company.         

(t)  
   Regular Earnings  means straight-time wages or salary paid to a Participant by any entity within the Employer Group for working a regular work schedule or for a leave of
absence with pay, and shall include any amount that is contributed to any employee benefit plan on behalf of the Participant by any entity within the Employer Group under a salary reduction agreement entered into pursuant to such plan and that is
excluded from the Participant s gross income under section 125, 132(f), or 402(g) of the Code.         

(u)  
   Release  means a Release in the form prescribed by the Company in its sole discretion, pursuant to which the Participant shall waive all employment-related claims in
connection with his or her employment with the Employer Group and the termination of that employment, other than claims for benefits under the actual terms of an employee benefit plan and worker s compensation. For employees subject to the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, such Release shall be structured so as to comply with the requirements of the Older Workers  Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C.   626(f). The form of Release may vary among categories of employees and from
employee to employee within any category of employees.           
   17   

(v)  
   Severance Pay Benefit  means a benefit provided by the Plan, as determined pursuant to Section IV.         

(w)  
   Specified Employee  shall mean a  key employee  (within the meaning of that term under Code Section 416(i)). Effective as of January 1, 2005, a
Specified Employee is an Eligible Employee who, at any time during the twelve (12)-month period ending with the applicable Determination Date, is:         

(i)  
  An officer of the Company or any other member of the Affiliated Group having aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or more other members of the Affiliated Group
greater than the compensation limit in effect at the time under Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i) of the Code, provided that no more than fifty officers of the Company shall be determined to be Specified Employees as of any Determination Date;

(ii)  
  A five percent owner of the Company or any other member of the Affiliated Group; or         

(iii)  
  A one percent owner of the Company or any other member of the Affiliated Group who has aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or more other members of the
Affiliated Group of more than $150,000.        If an Eligible Employee is determined to be a Specified Employee on a Determination
Date, then such Eligible Employee shall be considered a Specified Employee for purposes of the Plan during the period beginning on the first April 1 following the Determination Date and ending on the next March 31.      For purposes of determining an officer s compensation when identifying Specified Employees, compensation is defined in accordance with Treas. Reg.
 1.415(c) 2(a), without applying any safe harbor, special timing or other special rules described in Treas. Reg.    1.415(c) 2(d), 2(e) and 2(g).       

(x)  
   Subsidiary  means any corporation with respect to which Gilead Sciences, Inc., one or more Subsidiaries, or Gilead Sciences, Inc., together with one or more Subsidiaries,
own not less than 80% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or not less than 80% of the total value of all shares of all outstanding classes of stock.         

(y)  
   Successors and Assigns  means a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company (including the Plan) whether by
operation of law or otherwise.         

(z)  
   Separation from Service  means the Participant s cessation of Employee status. For purposes of the Plan, a Separation from Service shall be determined in accordance
with the following standards:           
   18   

A Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred if the Participant continues to provide
services to one or more members of the Employer Group (whether as a common-law employee or non-employee consultant or contractor) at an annual rate that is 50% or more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding 36-months
of employment with the Employer Group (or if employed by the Employer Group less than 36 months, such lesser period).      A Separation from
Service will be deemed to have occurred if the Participant s service with the Employer Group (whether as a common-law employee or non-employee consultant or contractor) is permanently reduced to an annual rate that is less than 20% of the
services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding 36 months of employment with the Employer Group (or if employed by the Employer Group less than 36 months, such lesser period).      If such services are permanently reduced by more than 20% but less than 50% of the average over the prior 36 months (or lesser period), a Separation from
Service may be deemed to occur based on the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, whether the Participant is treated as an employee for other purposes, such as participation in employee benefit programs, and whether the Participant
is able to perform services for other unrelated entities.      In addition to the foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to
have occurred while the Participant is on military leave, sick leave, or other  bona   fide  leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six months or any longer period for which such Participant s right to
reemployment with one or more members of the Employer Group is provided either by statute or contract;   provided, however,   that in the event of a Participant s leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes such individual to be unable to perform his or her duties as an Employee, no Separation from Service shall be
deemed to occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated above) and the Participant s right to
reemployment is not provided either by statute or contract, then such Participant will be deemed to have a Separation from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of such six (6)-month or twenty-nine (29)-month period.
     This definition of Separation from Service shall not be interpreted as limiting the right of the Company or any other member of the
Employer Group to terminate the employment of an individual while on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence, to the extent permissible under applicable law.       

(aa)  
   2004 Equity Incentive Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time or any successor to such provision
          
   19   

(bb)  
   Year of Continuous Service  means the number of days (as defined by the Company in written rules adopted by it from time to time) of Continuous Service, divided by 365. A
Participant s Severance Pay Benefit calculation shall include both full and any partial Years of Continuous Service.         

XVIII.   
  EXECUTION        The Company has caused its duly-authorized
officer to execute the foregoing Plan as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    

/s/ Kristen M. Metza   
 
  By: Kristen M. Metza   
 
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources   

Date: December 15, 2008   

20   

APPENDIX A        Chief Executive Officer        Severance Benefits        

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance
Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable either within the 24-month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that
precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  Three times annual Regular Earnings plus three times the average of the annual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in whole in part) under the
Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s employment terminates.

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to thirty-six (36) times the amount by which (i) the
monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the
Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first
regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant
in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the
Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s
Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such
payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1)  
          
   21   

of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to
the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been
collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 12 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

4.  
    An additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any
interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the
Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the  Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall
be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the
Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the
calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such
calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the
Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding
provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall
be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability
within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax
liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the  
          
   22   

Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this
section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an
audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in
a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the
additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(c) of the Plan, to the extent those payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute
parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in
which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.          

B.  
  Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance Pay Benefit under
Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable upon completion of six or more months of Continuous Service and at any time other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of the Appendix A, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

1.  
  Two times annual Regular Earnings plus two times the amount determined by multiplying (i) the average of the annual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but
deferred in whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the
Participant s employment terminates by (ii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of months of employment (rounded to the next whole month) completed by the Participant in the fiscal year in which his or her employment terminates
and the denominator of which is 12.         

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to twenty-four (24) times the amount by which (i) the
monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the
Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the  
          
   23   

monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care
coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs
within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of
any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day
period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which
the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant
shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual
COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 12 months following the date of Separation from Service.           
   24   

APPENDIX B        Executive Vice President and        Senior Vice President        Severance Benefits        

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance
Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable either within the 18- month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that
precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  2.5 times annual Regular Earnings, plus 2.5 times the average of the annual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in whole in part) under the
Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s employment terminates.

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to thirty (30) times the amount by which (i) the monthly
cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s
employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose
employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled
pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with
Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event
shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as
set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable
dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The  
          
   25   

Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable
withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and
eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.       

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

4.  
    An additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any
interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the
Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the  Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall
be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the
Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the
calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such
calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the
Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding
provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall
be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability
within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax
liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the  
          
   26   

Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this
section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an
audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in
a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the
additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(c) of the Plan, to the extent those payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute
parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in
which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.          

B.  
  Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance Benefit under
Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable upon completion of six or more months of Continuous Service and at any time other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix B, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

1.  
  1.5 times annual Regular Earnings plus 1.0 times the amount determined by multiplying (i) the average of the annual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but
deferred in whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the
Participant s employment terminates by (ii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of months of employment (rounded to the next whole month) completed by the Participant in the fiscal year in which his or her employment terminates
and the denominator of which is 12.         

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to eighteen (18) times the amount by which (i) the
monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the
Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care  
          
   27   

coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first
regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant
in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the
Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s
Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such
payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and
shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the
sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.           
   28   

APPENDIX C        Vice President and Senior Advisor        Severance Benefits        

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit   For All Vice Presidents and Senior Advisors.        If a Severance Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable either within the 12-month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable
period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  1.5 times annual Regular Earnings, plus 1.5 times the average of the annual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in whole in part) under the
Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s employment terminates.

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to eighteen (18) times the amount by which (i) the
monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the
Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first
regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant
in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the
Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s
Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such
payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant  
          
   29   

and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum
Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group
health care plan.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

4.  
    An additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any
interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the
Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the  Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall
be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the
Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the
calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such
calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the
Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding
provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall
be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability
within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax
liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then  
          
   30   

the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes
of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably
withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being
filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(c) of the Plan, to the extent those payments
relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be made
later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.

B.  
  Severance Pay Benefit for Vice Presidents with at least Six Months of Continuous Service        For Vice Presidents who have completed six or more months of Continuous Service at the time they become eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable at any
time other than the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix C, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to twelve (12) times the amount by which (i) the monthly
cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s
employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose
employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled
pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with
Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event
shall  
          
   31   

such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within
the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment
provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment
shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such
withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.

3.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

C.  
  Severance Pay Benefit for Vice Presidents with less than Six Months of Continuous Service        For Vice Presidents who have not completed six or more months of Continuous Service but are otherwise eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable at any
time other than the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix C, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  4 months of Regular Earnings.         

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to four (4) times the amount by which (i) the monthly
cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s
employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose
employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled
pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with
Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event
shall  
          
   32   

such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within
the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment
provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment
shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such
withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.

3.  
  Outplacement services for 1 month following the date of Separation from Service.        Senior Advisors shall not be entitled to any benefits under Sections B and C of this Appendix C.         
   33   

APPENDIX D        Severance Benefits for Eligible Employees        other than Chief Executive Officer,        Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President,        Vice President and Senior Advisor       This Appendix is effective for covered individuals who cease Employee status on or after May 8,
2007, unless they have a pre-existing contract providing a different level of severance pay.       

A.  
  Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance
Pay Benefit under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable within the 12-month period following a Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), then regardless of the period of Continuous Service the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 52 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 22 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months (rounded
up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph A.1.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as
measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA
rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not
terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s
former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is
effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period  
          
   34   

following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum
Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s
Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the
portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the
Company s group health care plan.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

d.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of Regular Earnings.

e.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months (rounded
up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph A.2.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as
measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA
rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not
terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s
former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is
effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period  
          
   35   

following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum
Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s
Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the
portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the
Company s group health care plan.          

f.  
  Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 26 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 9 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months (rounded
up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph A.3.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as
measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA
rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not
terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s
former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is
effective following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period  
          
   36   

following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum
Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s
Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the
portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the
Company s group health care plan.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 1week following the date of Separation from Service.         

B.  
  General Severance Pay Benefit.        If a Severance Benefit
under Section IV(a)(i) becomes payable upon completion of six or more months of Continuous Service and at any time other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix D, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months (rounded
up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph B.1.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as
measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA
rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not
terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s
former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from  
          
   37   

Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the
expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such
sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for
the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes,
and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents
to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months (rounded
up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph B.2.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as
measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA
rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not
terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s
former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from  
          
   38   

Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the
expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such
sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for
the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes,
and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents
to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.         

a.  
  Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 26 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 9 weeks of Regular Earnings.

b.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months (rounded
up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph B.3.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as
measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA
rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not
terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s
former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from  
          
   39   

Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the
expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such
sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been revoked.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for
the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes,
and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents
to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.  
  Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.         

C.  
  General Severance Pay Benefit Without Six Months of Continuous Service.        For Eligible Employees in Grades 21 through 34 who have not completed six or more months of Continuous Service but are eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes
payable at any time other than within the Change Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix D, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.  
  4 weeks of Regular Earnings.         

2.  
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the amount equal to one (1) times the amount by which (i) the monthly
cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s
employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the   earlier   of (A) the first
regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her  
          
   40   

Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective
following the expiration of any applicable revocation period and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan is delivered to the Company, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last
day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and have not been
revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the
Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding
taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible
dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.  
  Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.           
   41   

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.53>
 4
 dex1053.htm
 ADDENDUM TO TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE MAN. SUPPLY AGREEMENT

Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Man. Supply Agreement 

Exhibit 10.53        [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.        GILEAD SCIENCES LIMITED   PHARMACHEM TECHNOLOGIES (GRAND BAHAMA), LTD.        ADDENDUM TO TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE MANUFACTURING SUPPLY AGREEMENT       The Parties hereby
acknowledge and agree to the following:      This Addendum agreement (the   Addendum  ) is entered into as of December 5, 2008 by and
between PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., a Commonwealth of the Bahamas company (  PharmaChem  ) having its principal place of business at West Sunrise Highway, Freeport, Grand Bahama, Commonwealth of the Bahamas, and
Gilead Sciences Limited, an Irish limited company (  GSL  ) whose registered address is Unit 12, Stillorgan Industrial Park, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, Ireland. PharmaChem and GSL may be referred to individually as a
  Party   and collectively as the   Parties   in this Addendum.      WHEREAS by a Manufacturing Supply Agreement dated July 17, 2003 made between PharmaChem and Gilead World Markets Ltd. (  GWM  ), as novated by a Novation Agreement dated June 14, 2004 and
further amended on July 15, 2005   ,    July 31, 2005, May 10, 2007, and August 20,2007, made between GWM, GSL and
PharmaChem (the   Agreement  ), PharmaChem agreed to manufacture and supply bulk tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (the   Product  ) to GSL on the terms and conditions therein set out and until December 31, 2010;
     WHEREAS the Parties hereto desire to extend the term of the Agreement until December 31, 2012 at the same terms and conditions
thereof except as provided herein;      WHEREAS a previous Addendum provided for GSL to sell to PharmaChem certain key raw materials required
for manufacturing of TDF (the   Key Raw Materials        WHEREAS Gilead has secured from  [ * ] .      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants herein and intending to be legally bound hereby, the  Whereas  clauses being an integral and
material part of this Addendum, the Parties hereby agree as follows:      1. Article 2 of the Agreement is cancelled and replaced by the following:   
   The Term of this Agreement shall begin as of the effective Date, and shall remain in effect until December 31, 2012 (the   Initial
Term  ), and thereafter for subsequent automatic two-year renewal terms (each a   Renewal Term  ), unless terminated by either Party effective at the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term by at least twelve
(12) months prior written notice or unless earlier terminated according to Section 12  Termination  of this Agreement.          
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       1   

2. The Price of Product delivered in accordance with the Agreement (Exhibit B) will be as set forth on Schedule 1. It is
intended that all purchases of Product within a calendar year,  [ * ]  and at whatever modified pricing agreed to by Gilead, will be counted towards the commitment under Schedule 1, Combined Quantity, and that pricing for Gilead will be
calculated following the formula and examples in Schedule 1 based on quantities of Product purchased/forecasted by  [ * ] .      3. The current and
projected purchase prices for the Key Raw Materials are set forth on Schedule 2. The current and projected purchase prices for the other Raw Materials are set forth on Schedule 3. The current and projected energy costs are set forth on Schedule 4.
Deviations of actual costs, and energy prices from the values in Schedules 2, 3, and 4, may be used to modify the purchase price for Product pursuant to Section 10 of the Agreement for years 2009 through 2012, however, any price increase
calculated under Section 10 for the year 2009 will be reduced by  [ * ] .      4. Price reductions for yield improvements under Process
Improvements Sections 8 and 10 will be calculated using the per step yields as listed in Schedule 5.      5. Gilead may substitute quantities of a different
compound for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (  TDF  ) as the  Product  to be manufactured by PharmaChem under this Agreement, on terms and conditions  [ * ]  to be mutually agreed in writing by Gilead and
PharmaChem. If that happens, the quantities of such other compound manufactured by PharmaChem shall  [ * ] .      6. This Addendum may only be
amended by a written instrument signed by each of the parties hereto.      7. This Addendum shall be deemed severable; the invalidity or unenforceability of
any term or provision of this Addendum shall not affect the validity or enforceability of this Addendum or of any other term thereof, which shall remain in full force and effect.      8. The Agreement amended hereby shall continue in full force and effect except as expressly amended hereby.      In WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto hereby execute this Addendum as of the date first indicated above.       

PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd.   

By:  
     
  /s/ Pietro Stefanutti   
 
  Name:  
     
  Pietro Stefanutti   
 
  Title:  
     
  President   
       
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       2   

Gilead Sciences Limited   

By:  
     
  /s/ John F. Milligan, Ph.D.   
 
  Name:  
     
  John F. Milligan, Ph.D.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director   
       
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       3   

Schedule 1        A.  Price List .       During calendar year 2009:        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]    
   $ [*]        The minimum total purchases for the year will be
 [*]         During calendar year 2010:        $ [*]
       $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        The minimum total purchases for the year will be  [*] 
       During calendar year 2011:        $ [*]
       $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        The minimum total purchases for the year will be  [*] 
       During calendar year 2012:       Price =  $ [*] 
      $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        $ [*]        The minimum total purchases for the year will be
 [*]           
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       4   

In the list above, the metric tons of Product means the total (the  Combined Quantity ) forecasted/ordered
 [*] .      In the list above, the target price at a particular level of Combined Quantity will hold until the next higher purchase tier is reached. For
example, if the Combined Quantity for 2012 totals  [ * ] , the price will be the price set for  [*] , i.e.,  $[*] .      B.  Gilead Price
Based on Total Forecasted Purchases . The Price for any given calendar year shall be based on the list in  A  above with Gilead Annual Quantity set as per Section 3 of the Agreement.      The  [*]  shall determine the total commitment in USD to PharmaChem for the given calendar year (the  Annual USD Commitment ). For example,      Year 2009  [ * ]  which gives a total Annual USD Commitment of  [ * ] .       [ * ]       Gilead s
 [ * ]  tentative price for the year would then be calculated taking into consideration  [ * ]  as follows:       [ * ]        [ * ]        [ * ]        C.  Gilead Price
Adjustments Based on Total Actual Purchases . Because  [ * ]  actual purchases in a calendar year may vary from the  [ * ]  projected purchases used in the initial annual Gilead price calculation in  B,  Gilead and
PharmaChem shall,  [ * ] , recalculate the price using the formula in section  B  above and the  [ * ] . If the adjusted price is higher than the price paid by Gilead based on the start-of-year calculation, then
 [ * ]       Price reductions due to reduced Key Raw Material, raw material, or energy costs as well as reductions due to Process Improvements shall
be applied and reduce the  [ * ] .      D.  Price for Gilead Purchases above Annual Commitment . If Gilead orders more Product than the Gilead
commitment (Gilead Annual Quantity) for a calendar year, the price for such excess amount will be  [ * ] . Such excess quantities and the price therefor shall  [ * ] .         
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       5   

Schedule 2          Current and Projected purchase prices for Key Raw Materials in USD per kilogram         
      Schedule 3          Current and Projected purchase prices for other Raw Materials in USD and their usage rates per Key Raw Material         

Product: [*]    
      
   US$/Unit   
     
   Units/Bx    
 
    Key Ingredient:  [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
    Auxiliary Materials   

[ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
       
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       6   

Product: [*]    
      
   US$/Unit   
     
   Units/Bx    
 
    Key Ingredient:  [ * ]    

[ * ]    
 
    Auxiliary Materials   

[ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    

Product:[*]    
      
   US$/Unit   
     
   Units/Bx    
 
    Key Ingredient:  [ * ]    

[ * ]    
 
    Auxiliary Materials   

[ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
 
     [ * ]    
      
   [ * ]   
     
   [ * ]    
       
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       7   

Schedule 4          Current and Projected Energy Costs in USD          [*]          Cost per kwh.         [ * ]        [ * ]         Total    [*]     
   [ * ]         [*]          [*]    [*]          Schedule
5          Baseline yield per step          Step One: [*]          [*]          Step Two: [*]          [*]          Step Three: [*]          [*]           
    [*] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, is filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       8   

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.57>
 5
 dex1057.htm
 PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AND ESCROW INSTRUCTIONS

Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions 

Exhibit 10.57        PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT        AND JOINT ESCROW INSTRUCTIONS       This Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (the    Agreement   ) is made as of October 23, 2008 (the
   Effective Date   ) by and between Electronics For Imaging, Inc., a Delaware corporation (   Seller   ), and Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation (   Buyer   ), in the following
factual context:      A. Seller is the owner of certain real property consisting of approximately 35 acres of land improved by two buildings
known as 301 and 303 Velocity Way, in the City of Foster City (the    City   ), San Mateo County (the    County   ), California 94404 (APN 94-122-050, 060, 070, 080, 110, 120, 130, 140 and 150 and Parcel A as
shown on Map of Tract No. 92-83) (   Seller s Property   ), all as more particularly described in   Exhibit A-1   and as shown on the assessor s parcel map attached as   Exhibit A-2  .
     B. Seller s Property is entitled for development of a total five (5) buildings consisting of up to 1,000,000 square feet of
office, R D, light assembly and ancillary facilities, as well as a parking structure, as set forth in the Vintage Park General Development Plan (   General Development Plan   ) and as described in a Development Agreement
dated July 10, 1997 between CalCap, LLC, a California limited liability company (   CalCap   ), the City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (the    District   ), and recorded in the Official
Records of the County (the    Official Records   ) on August 14, 1997 as Document Nos. 97-099348 and 97-099349, as assigned by CalCap to Seller by an Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated August 14, 1997 and
recorded in the Official Records as Document No. 97-108156, and amended by a First Amendment to Development Agreement dated July 17, 2000 (as assigned and amended, the    Development Agreement   ). Seller has
constructed two buildings on Seller s Property:    Building A    consisting of approximately 295,000 gross square feet and    Building B    consisting of approximately 163,000 gross square feet. The
remaining 542,000 square feet of buildings and the parking structure approved per the General Development Plan have not been built.      C. The
City has approved Specific Development Plans/Use Permits for buildings known as  Building C  consisting of approximately 163,000 gross square feet (per Specific Development Plan/Use Permit 97-001a approved by Planning Commission Reso. No.
P-35-97, as amended by Reso. No. P-30-00),  Building  D  consisting of approximately 172,000 gross square feet (per Specific Development Plan/Use Permit 97-015, approved by Planning Commission Reso. No. P-01-98) and a parking
structure (per Specific Development Plan/Use Permit 00-004 (approved by Planning Commission Reso. No. P-32-00).      D. Seller desires to sell,
and Buyer desires to purchase, a portion of Seller s Property, on the terms and conditions set forth herein.   

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of One Hundred Dollars paid by Buyer to Seller, the covenants
contained in this Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency are hereby acknowledged, Seller and Buyer agree as follows:       Section 1. AGREEMENT OF SALE       Subject to and on the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Seller shall sell to Buyer and
Buyer shall purchase from Seller all of the following assets (collectively, the    Property   ):       1.1
  Land.  The portion of Seller s Property consisting of approximately 30 acres of land (APN 94-122-050, 060, 070, 080, 110, 120, 130 and 150 and Parcel A as shown on Map of Tract No. 92-83), all as more particularly described in
  Exhibit A-3  , together with (a) all privileges, rights, easements and appurtenances belonging to the real property, including, without limitation, all minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on and under the real
property; (b) all development rights, air rights, air credits, water, water rights and water stock relating to the real property; and (c) all right, title and interest of Seller in and to any streets, alleys, passages, common areas, other
easements and other rights-of-way or appurtenances included in, adjacent to or used in connection with such real property (collectively, the    Land          1.2   Improvements.  Any and all buildings, structures, systems, facilities, fixtures, fences and parking areas located on the Land, and any
and all machinery, equipment, apparatus and appliances (not owned by tenants) used in connection with the operation or occupancy of the Land, including without limitation the office building containing approximately 163,000 square feet of gross
building area commonly known as 301 Velocity Way (commonly known as    Building B   ), Foster City, California 94404 (collectively, the    Improvements          1.3   Personal Property.  All of Seller s right, title and interest in and to any equipment, furniture and other tangible personal
property (not owned by tenants) located within and used in connection with the operation or occupancy of the Land and Improvements (collectively, the    Personal Property   ), but excluding the personal property listed on
  Exhibit B   (the    Excluded Personal Property   ). Before the expiration of the Due Diligence Period, the parties shall agree on the manner of Seller s removal of the Excluded Personal Property. Personal
Property shall include, without limitation, all workstations, chairs, tables, whiteboards, case work, cabling, fitness room equipment and day care center furniture and equipment;       1.4   Leases.  All of Seller s right, title and interest in and to all of the leases, licenses and other occupancy agreements with
tenants of the Property which are listed on   Exhibit C   (the    Leases   ), together with all rental deposits, security deposits and other deposits given by tenants to secure their performance under the Leases;
      1.5 Contracts.  All of Seller s right, title and interest in and to any of the contracts and agreements which are listed on
  Exhibit D         that Buyer elects to assume by so stating in the Approval Notice (as defined in Section 3.2 below); and       1.6   Other Assets.  All of Seller s right, title and interest in and to all tangible and intangible assets of any nature relating exclusively to the Land, the Improvements and/or the Personal
Property, including without limitation (a) all warranties upon the Improvements or Personal Property, to the extent such warranties are assignable; (b) copies of all plans, specifications, engineering drawings and prints in Seller s
possession or control relating to the construction of the Improvements; and (c) all other intellectual or intangible property used by Seller in connection with the Land, the Improvements and/or the Personal Property (collectively, the
   Other Assets   ).         
   - 2 -   

1.7   Retained Property.  Seller shall retain ownership of the land and an office building
consisting of approximately 295,000 square feet of gross building area (   Building A   ) and other related improvements known as 303 Velocity Way, Foster City, California (APN 94-122-140) together with (a) all privileges,
rights, easements and appurtenances belonging to the real property, including, without limitation, all minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on and under the real property; (b) all development rights, air rights, air credits,
water, water rights and water stock relating to the real property; and (c) all right, title and interest of Seller in and to any easements and other rights-of-way or appurtenances included in, adjacent to or used in connection with such real
property (the   Retained Property  ). Building A and Building B are currently connected by a skywalk, which Buyer may elect, in its sole discretion, to be included in the Property being sold to Buyer. Buyer will give notice of its
election to acquire the skywalk on or before the end of the Due Diligence Period (as defined in Section 3.1.1).       Section 2. PURCHASE PRICE  
      2.1   Amount.  The purchase price for the Property (the    Purchase Price   ) shall be One Hundred
Thirty-Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($137,500,000).       2.2   Payment.  Buyer shall pay the Purchase Price to Seller
as follows:       2.2.1   Deposit.  Within two (2) business days after the Effective Date, and as a condition precedent to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, Buyer shall deposit in escrow (   Escrow   ) with the Title Company (as defined in Section 3.3) the sum of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) in immediately available funds (the
   Initial Deposit   ). Within two (2) business days following expiration of the Due Diligence Period, if Buyer has not elected to terminate this Agreement in accordance with Section 3.2 and if Buyer has given Seller
the Approval Notice, Buyer shall deposit with the Title Company the additional sum of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) in immediately available funds (the    Additional Deposit   ). The Initial Deposit and any interest accrued
thereon and the Additional Deposit and any interest accrued thereon are referred to in this Agreement as the    Deposit   . The Title Company shall place the Deposit in an interest-bearing account with either Bank of America,
N.A. or Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or other financial institution acceptable to Buyer and Seller.       2.2.2 Application of Deposit.  If the
sale of the Property pursuant to this Agreement is consummated, the Deposit and all accrued interest shall be credited against the Purchase Price. If the sale of the Property pursuant to this Agreement is not consummated as a result of (i) a
default by Seller, (ii) termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 3.2 or Section 3.4, or (iii) failure of an express condition for the benefit of Buyer, the Deposit shall be returned to Buyer.       2.2.3   Payment of Balance.  On or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 9.1), Buyer shall pay the balance of the Purchase Price
by electronic transfer of immediately available funds into escrow.       2.2.4 Allocation of Purchase Price.  Buyer and Seller shall use
reasonable good faith efforts to agree, prior to expiration of the Due Diligence Period, upon the allocation of the Purchase Price paid for the Property in accordance with Section 1060 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended)
(  Code  ).         
   - 3 -   

2.2.5   Liquidated Damages.  IN THE EVENT THE SALE OF THE PROPERTY TO BUYER IS NOT CONSUMMATED
AS A RESULT OF BUYER S MATERIAL DEFAULT (HEREAFTER DEFINED IN SECTION 11.1 BELOW) IN PERFORMANCE OF ITS OBLIGATION TO PURCHASE THE PROPERTY, SELLER MAY TERMINATE THIS AGREEMENT AND RETAIN THE DEPOSIT AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES IN ACCORDANCE WITH
SECTION 11.4. BUYER AND SELLER ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT SELLER S ACTUAL DAMAGES, IN THE EVENT OF BUYER S BREACH OF ITS OBLIGATION TO PURCHASE THE PROPERTY WOULD BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT OR IMPRACTICABLE TO DETERMINE. THEREFORE, IN THE
EVENT OF BUYER S MATERIAL BREACH OF ITS OBLIGATION TO PURCHASE THE PROPERTY, THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED, AFTER NEGOTIATION, THAT THE DEPOSIT SHALL CONSTITUTE SELLER S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE RIGHT TO DAMAGES AND THAT THIS SUM REPRESENTS A
REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF THE ACTUAL DAMAGES SELLER WOULD INCUR AS A RESULT OF BUYER S DEFAULT IN THE PERFORMANCE OF ITS OBLIGATION TO PURCHASE THE PROPERTY. THE FOREGOING SHALL NOT LIMIT SELLER S RIGHT TO RECOVERY UNDER ANY INDEMNITY BY
BUYER IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR RECOVERY OF ANY ATTORNEYS FEES UNDER SECTION 13.8. SELLER WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE OR DAMAGES OTHER THAN AS SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 2.2.5. BY INITIALING IN THE SPACES WHICH FOLLOW, SELLER
AND BUYER SPECIFICALLY AND EXPRESSLY AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 2.2.5 GOVERNING LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.      Seller
(JR)             Buyer (JM)       Section 3. DUE DILIGENCE        3.1 Due Diligence Period; Inspection and Access.        3.1.1   Due Diligence Period.  The    Due Diligence Period    shall mean the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending at 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on December 12, 2008.
      3.1.2   Due Diligence Investigation.  During the Due Diligence Period, Buyer shall have the right to conduct at its sole cost
and expense such investigations, studies, surveys, analyses and tests of the Property as it shall in its sole discretion determine are necessary or desirable (the    Due Diligence Investigation   ). This investigation may include
a physical inspection of the Property, including, but not limited to, inspection and examination of soils, environmental factors, if any, archeological information relating to the Property, geological and other tests; a review and investigation of
any zoning, permits, reports, and engineering data; review of all governmental matters affecting the Property (subject to the limitation set forth in Section 3.1.6 below); review of roofing, structural, mechanical, seismic and security systems
in Building B; review of the condition or title to the Property; review of material documents relating to the ownership and operation of the Property; and review of such other matters pertaining to an investment in the Property as Buyer deems
advisable. Seller shall also permit Buyer to inspect any connection between the security system on the Property and that on the Retained Property as well as any documents related to the operation of the security system to the extent such documents
relate to the Property (  Limited Security Review  ). The Limited Security Review shall be coordinated through and attended by Seller s authorized representative, and no other activity or inspection with respect to the Retained
Property is permitted by this Agreement. Should it be determined in the course of the Due Diligence Investigation that there are interconnecting utilities or other systems between the Property and the Retained Property, Seller shall not unreasonably
withhold, condition or delay consent to Buyer s request to conduct such further investigation of the Retained Property as is reasonably necessary to evaluate such interconnection. All Buyer s activities on the Retained Property shall be at
Buyer s sole cost and expense.         
   - 4 -   

3.1.3 Access/Conditions.  To conduct its Due Diligence Investigation, Buyer and its representatives
shall have the right of access to the Property during reasonable business hours and upon at least one (1) business days  prior notice. Such access shall be coordinated through Seller s authorized representative, Roger Wang, P.E., EFI
Director of Facilities (telephone number: 650-357-3186), or any other individual designated by Mr. Wang, and Seller may require all such access to be in the company of Seller s authorized representative. This right of entry shall be
subject to the following conditions:      (a) The Due Diligence Investigation shall be conducted in full compliance with each
law, zoning restriction, ordinance, rule, regulation or requirement of any governmental or quasi governmental agency (  Governmental Entity  ) with jurisdiction over the Property. Buyer shall not interfere with any occupant of the
Property and shall make every reasonable effort to accommodate the requests of Seller, tenants of the Property and any other occupants of the Property regarding conduct of the investigation so as to minimize interference with business operations at
the Property. Buyer shall not conduct any interviews or discussions with any tenant without the prior written consent of Seller, which Seller shall not unreasonably withhold, condition, or delay, and Seller shall have the opportunity to have a
representative present during such tenant interviews or discussions.      (b) Prior to entering the Property to perform its Due
Diligence Investigation of the Retained Property or to perform the Limited Security Review, Buyer shall provide to Seller a certificate of insurance showing that Buyer maintains in full force and effect, a policy of comprehensive general liability
insurance (i) covering the activities of Buyer (including Buyer s employees, independent contractors and agents) in connection with the Due Diligence Investigation, (ii) in an amount of not less than Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
combined single limit per occurrence from a carrier rated A- or better by Best s Rating Guide, (iii) naming Seller, its officers, directors, lenders, agents and employees as additional insureds, and (iv) requiring at least thirty
(30) days  written notice to Seller prior to cancellation or reduction in coverage.      (c) All information supplied
by Seller in the course of Buyer s Due Diligence Investigation shall remain the property of Seller. In the event Closing does not occur or this Agreement is terminated for any reason, Buyer shall promptly return to Seller all documents obtained
from Seller and Seller s agents; provided, however, Buyer may retain a single copy of all such documents (other than architectural drawings and construction specifications, which must be returned to Seller) for archival purposes.      (d) Any investigation or other tests involving sampling or physical invasion of the surface of the Property or physical sampling are to be
made by Buyer only after obtaining the express written consent of Seller, which may be withheld in Seller s sole discretion. Seller s authorized representative and Seller s environmental consultants may attend any test or
investigation at the Property and shall be entitled, without cost, to duplicates of any samples taken by Buyer (or, if duplicates are not reasonably attainable, Buyer may elect to deliver the actual samples after testing) and to copies of all
written reports and data prepared by or on behalf of Buyer with respect to such sampling. Any request for consent must be delivered to Seller and its authorized representative, together with a reasonably detailed investigation plan sufficient for
Seller to determine the scope and logistics of the proposed investigation, at least three (3) business days before the desired test. Any invasive sampling or testing permitted by Seller shall be performed at Buyer s sole cost in compliance
with all environmental laws and other requirements of Governmental Entities. Depending on the nature of the invasive testing or sampling, Seller may require an increase in the amount of insurance specified in Section 3.1.3(b).  
       
   - 5 -   

If in the course of its investigation, Buyer discovers any environmental condition which Buyer or its consultants or contractors believes should be reported
to any Governmental Entity, Buyer shall provide to Seller full information regarding the discovery, and Seller shall assume any and all reporting obligations and shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer, its employees, authorized agents, consultants,
contractors and representatives harmless from any and all claims, Liens, demands, losses, damages, liabilities, fines, penalties, charges, administrative and judicial proceedings and orders, judgments, and all costs and expenses incurred in
connection therewith (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys  fees, reasonable costs of defense, and reasonable costs and expenses of all experts and consultants) (collectively referred to as    Claims   )
arising directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of any failure of Seller to fulfill such reporting obligations, if any. If a Phase I environmental investigation report obtained during the Due Diligence Period suggests that sampling is
recommended, and if Seller consents to such testing in accordance with this Section 3.1.3(d), Buyer may have additional time to review and approve in its sole and unfettered discretion the environmental condition of the Property for such
additional period of time (the    Environmental Diligence Period   ) as is reasonably required to obtain permits for such testing and to obtain the results and analysis thereof; provided that (i) Buyer has approved all other
matters relating to the Property other than the Property s environmental condition prior to expiration of the Due Diligence Period, and (ii) in no event shall the Environmental Diligence Period extend beyond December 30, 2008 without
the prior written consent of Seller.      (e) Promptly after any physical inspection of the Property, if any damage to the
Property has resulted from such physical inspection, Buyer at its sole cost shall restore the Property to the condition that existed immediately prior to such inspection; provided that, if the Closing does not occur for any reason, then Seller may
elect to restore the Property itself and to charge the cost thereof to Buyer (who shall pay the amount due within thirty (30) days after delivery of an invoice from Seller).      (f) Buyer shall not permit any mechanics  or other Liens to be filed against the Property as a result of Buyer exercising its right
of entry, and Buyer at its sole cost shall cause any Liens (as defined in Section 5.8) so filed to be removed within five (5) days after written notice from Seller, by bond or otherwise.      (g) Buyer s obligations under this Section 3.1.3 shall survive the termination of this Agreement prior to Closing.   
   3.1.4   Indemnity.  Buyer shall indemnify, defend and hold Seller, its officers, directors, shareholders, affiliates, subsidiaries,
lenders, employees, contractors, agents, successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all Claims, to the extent arising out of the acts or omissions of Buyer, its agents, employees or contractors in the course of carrying out
Buyer s Due Diligence Investigation and Limited Security Review, including but not limited to:      (a) any investigative
activity, or any other act or omission in connection with the Due Diligence Investigation or Limited Security Review, by or on behalf of Buyer or its employees, invitees, agents or contractors;      (b) any contract, agreement or commitment entered into or made by and between Buyer and a third-party contractor in connection with the
Due Diligence Investigation or Limited Security Review; and         
   - 6 -   

(c) the investigation of the presence of Hazardous Materials (as defined in
Section 5.6.1(b)) or substances on the Property, the exacerbation of any pre-existing environmental condition, in any case, as a result of any act or omission of Buyer or Buyer s employees, agents or contractors; provided, however the
indemnifications in this Section 3.1.4 shall not extend to the Claims arising out of the discovery and/or reporting of existing conditions on the Property. Buyer s obligations under this Section 3.1.4 shall survive the termination of
this Agreement prior to Closing.       3.1.5   Delivery of Documents.  In connection with Buyer s Due Diligence Investigation,
Seller has provided or will provide to Buyer copies of all development agreements, leases, service contracts, engineering drawings/specifications, purchase orders/agreements, operating costs, use permits, third-party reports, studies, operating
statements, environmental reviews, compliance inspection reports and other similar documents relating to the Property in Seller s possession or control (collectively, the    Due Diligence Documents   ). The Due Diligence
Documents shall  exclude  (if any) (a) any item that is subject to any legally recognized privilege (e.g., the attorney-client privilege) and attorney work product, provided, however, Seller shall provide to Buyer a general description of
the categories of Due Diligence Documents claimed to be excluded under this clause (a), (b) any document that contains proprietary or confidential financial information not relating to the operation of the Property, (c) any appraisals of
the Property and (d) any item that Seller is contractually or otherwise bound to keep confidential, provided, however, Seller shall provide to Buyer a general description of the categories of Due Diligence Documents claimed to be excluded under
this clause (d). Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, Seller makes no representation or warranty relating to the validity of the Due Diligence Documents, and Buyer acknowledges and agrees that Buyer is responsible for verifying the
accuracy of the Due Diligence Documents. All information, including but not limited to the Due Diligence Documents, supplied by Seller to Buyer pursuant to this Agreement shall remain the property of Seller, except as provided in
Section 3.1.3(c). In the event the Closing does not occur, or this Agreement is terminated for any reason, Buyer shall promptly return to Seller all documents, including but not limited to the Due Diligence Documents, obtained from Seller and
Seller s agents, employees and contractors except as provided in Section 3.1.3(c).       3.1.6 Contact with Government
Entities.  Buyer shall not contact any Governmental Entity, including but not limited to the City, about the Property or this Agreement without first having given Seller not less than twenty-four (24) hours notice to Roger Wang of
Buyer s intent to contact the City or other Governmental Entity. Buyer shall give Seller (i) copies of all written communications to or from Governmental Entities, and (ii) at least 24 hours prior notice of any meetings or telephone
calls with Governmental Entities, so that Seller may participate if it desires. Buyer shall not enter into any binding agreements with Governmental Entities with respect to the Property that become effective prior to the Closing.       3.1.7   Confidentiality.  This Agreement, the Due Diligence Investigation, and the Limited Security Review shall be subject to the terms and
conditions of the Mutual Nondisclosure Agreement entered into by the parties on August 18, 2008 (the    NDA   ), all of which terms and conditions (other than Section 6 of the NDA) are incorporated herein by this
reference. With regard to this Agreement only, the term   Purpose   in the NDA shall include evaluating the Property and performing the Limited Security Review, and Buyer shall use all such information solely for such Purpose.
Buyer s obligations under this Section 3.1.7 shall survive the termination of this Agreement prior to Closing.         
   - 7 -   

3.1.8   Estoppel Certificates.  Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and
deliver to Buyer prior to the end of the Due Diligence Period fully completed and executed tenant estoppel certificates substantially in the form attached as   Exhibit E-1   and   Exhibit E-2   from the existing tenants of
Building B (   Tenant Estoppel Certificates   ). If Seller is unable to deliver the Tenant Estoppel Certificates prior to the expiration of the Due Diligence Period, Seller may elect, by written notice to Buyer, to close the
transaction in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement by providing to Buyer at Closing a Seller estoppel certificate substantially in the form attached as   Exhibit F-1   and   Exhibit F-2   (the
   Seller Estoppel Certificates   ), in place of any of the Tenant Estoppel Certificates not delivered.       3.2
Approval/Disapproval of Due Diligence Investigation.  Buyer shall approve or disapprove of the results of its Due Diligence Investigation in the exercise of Buyer s sole discretion by written notice (  Approval Notice  )
delivered to Seller no later than 5:00 p.m. on the last day of the Due Diligence Period. Buyer s disapproval shall terminate this Agreement, in which case the Initial Deposit, together with all accrued interest, shall be returned to Buyer and,
except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement shall be of no further force and effect. Buyer s failure to deliver the Approval Notice to Seller shall be deemed disapproval. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
contrary, Buyer may elect to terminate this Agreement at any time during the Due Diligence Period for any reason whatsoever in Buyer s sole and unfettered discretion, in which case the Initial Deposit, together with all accrued interest, shall
be returned to Buyer.       3.3 Preliminary Report.  Buyer shall obtain a preliminary report or commitment for title insurance (the
   Preliminary Report   ) covering the Property and issued by First American Title located at 1700 South El Camino Real, Suite 108, San Mateo, CA 94402, Attention: Karen Matsunaga (the    Title Company   ),
together with a legible copy of each document, map and survey referred to in the Preliminary Report.       3.4 Approval/Disapproval of
Preliminary Report.  Buyer shall approve or disapprove of the Preliminary Report and any exceptions to title shown thereon (the    Exceptions   ) in the exercise of Buyer s sole discretion on or before December 1,
2008, subject to Buyer s right to review and approve or disapprove within five (5) days after receipt thereof any supplement to the Preliminary Report resulting from any new title exception or the title company s review of an ALTA
survey obtained by Buyer (   Title Supplement   ). If Buyer disapproves title, whether with respect to the Preliminary Report or a Title Supplement, Buyer may elect to either (a) terminate this Agreement by giving Seller
written notice of termination within the applicable time period for review, or (b) give Seller a written notice (   Disapproval Notice   ) identifying the disapproved title matters which Buyer will require to be removed or
cured at or prior to Closing (   Disapproved Title Matters   ). Failure by Buyer to timely give either notice approving the Preliminary Report and the Exceptions or the Disapproval Notice shall be deemed approval. With respect to
any Disapproved Title Matters, Seller shall notify Buyer in writing within five (5) business days after Seller s receipt of the Disapproval Notice whether Seller will cause the Disapproved Title Matters to be removed or cured at or prior
to Closing. If Seller elects not to remove or cure all Disapproved Title Matters, Buyer may, at its option, by notice to Seller given prior to expiration of the Due Diligence Period, elect to: (i) close the purchase of the Property and take
title subject to any Disapproved Title Matters which Seller elects not to remove or cure (subject to satisfaction of the other conditions to Closing), or (ii) terminate this Agreement.         
   - 8 -   

Section 4. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT        4.1 Buyer s Conditions.  Buyer s obligations under this Agreement are subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions at or prior to the Closing Date, which conditions are for the benefit of
Buyer only and the satisfaction or fulfillment of which may be waived only in writing by Buyer:       4.1.1 Representations and Warranties
True at Closing.  Seller s representations and warranties contained in this Agreement that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct and any such representations and warranties that are not qualified by materiality shall be true
and correct in all material respects, in each case, as of the Effective Date and as of the Closing Date, as though such representations and warranties were made on and as of the Closing Date.       4.1.2 Performance.  Seller shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all covenants, agreements, terms and conditions required
by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by it prior to or at the Closing.       4.1.3   Title Policy.  The Title Company
shall on the Closing Date be irrevocably and unconditionally committed to deliver to Buyer an ALTA extended coverage owner s policy of title insurance with such endorsements as Buyer shall reasonably request (the    Title
Policy   ), with liability not less than the Purchase Price showing fee title to the Property vested in Buyer, subject only to the Exceptions approved by Buyer pursuant to Section 3.4. At Buyer s option, Buyer may obtain a Title
Policy in an amount equal to the estimated value of improvements to be construction on the Land.       4.1.4 REA.  At Closing, Buyer and
Seller shall have reached agreement on the terms of, and entered into an agreement providing for reciprocal easements for access, utilities, drainage and parking (the    REA   ), and any required approvals from the City
pertaining to the REA shall have been obtained.       4.1.5 EFI Lease.  At Closing, Buyer and Seller shall have reached agreement on the
terms of, and entered into a lease (the    EFI Lease   ) pursuant to which Buyer shall lease to Seller portions of Building B currently used by Seller for lab and warehouse, for a period of time beginning on the Close of Escrow
and expiring on April 15, 2009.       4.1.6   Child Care Agreement.  At Closing, Buyer and Seller shall reached agreement on the
terms of, and have entered into an agreement (the    Child Care Center Agreement   ) regarding the use of the Child Care Center by employees of Seller after Closing provided that the Child Care Center Agreement will not obligate
Buyer to provide Seller s employees use of the Child Care Center beyond July 15, 2009. For the avoidance of doubt, Buyer will have sole discretion on all matters related to the Child Care Center after July 15, 2009. Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, in no event shall Buyer terminate the use of the Child Care Center by Seller s employees without giving at least ninety (90) days prior written notice to Seller and the relevant employees.       4.1.7   Assignment of Development Agreement.  At Closing, Seller shall assign to Buyer all of its right, title and interest in and to the
Development Agreement and shall obtain all consents to such assignment as may be required to validly assign the Development Agreement. Such assignment (the    Assignment of Development Agreement   ) shall be substantially in the
form attached as   Exhibit G  .       4.1.8   Material Change in Entitlements for Property.  There shall have been no
material change in Applicable Laws or the right to develop the Property in accordance with the Development Agreement that would adversely affect Buyer s ability (with respect to cost or time to completion) under the Development Agreement to
construct on the Property no less than 542,000 gross square feet of building area and a parking structure.         
   - 9 -   

4.1.9 Consent of Ground Lessee to Right of First Offer.  Seller shall have obtained the consent of
the Ground Lessee to the granting of the Right of First Offer as set forth in Section 10.6 below.       4.2   Seller s
Conditions.  Seller s obligations under this Agreement are subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions at or prior to the Closing Date, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller only and the satisfaction or fulfillment of
which may be waived only in writing by Seller:       4.2.1 Representations and Warranties True at Closing.  Buyer s representations
and warranties contained in this Agreement (i) that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct and (ii) any such representations and warranties that are not qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all material
respects, in each case, as of the Effective Date and as of the Closing Date, as though such representations and warranties were made on and as of the Closing Date.       4.2.2 Performance.  Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all covenants, agreements, terms and conditions required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by it prior
to or at the Closing.       4.2.3 REA.  Buyer and Seller shall have reached agreement on the terms of, and entered into the REA, and any
required approvals from the City pertaining to the REA shall have been obtained.       4.2.4   EFI Lease.  Buyer and Seller shall
have reached agreement on the terms of, and entered into the EFI Lease.       4.2.5   Child Care Center Agreement.  Buyer and Seller
shall have reached agreement on the terms of, and entered into the Child Care Center Agreement.       4.2.6 Consent to Right of First Offer.
 Seller shall have obtained the written consent of its Ground Lessee as described in Section 10.6.       4.3 Failure of Conditions.
       4.3.1 Failure of a Condition for the Benefit of Buyer.  If any of the conditions to Closing set forth in Section 4.1 are
not satisfied at the Closing Date, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller and the Title Company. In the event of such termination of this Agreement, the Escrow shall be terminated, the Deposit shall be returned to Buyer and
all other funds and all documents deposited with the Title Company shall be returned to the party having deposited the same. The foregoing shall not affect Buyer s remedies for a default by Seller, which shall be governed by Section 11.
      4.3.2 Failure of a Condition for the Benefit of Seller.  If any of the conditions to Closing set forth in Section 4.2 are not
satisfied at the Closing Date for a reason other than the default of Buyer, Seller may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Buyer and the Title Company. In the event of such termination of this Agreement, the Escrow shall be terminated, the
Deposit shall be returned to Buyer and all other funds and documents deposited with the Title Company shall be returned to the part having deposited the same. The foregoing shall not affect Seller s remedies for a default by Buyer, which shall
be governed by Section 11.         
   - 10 -   

Section 5. SELLER S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES        5.1 Authority.  Seller is a duly formed, validly existing corporation in good standing in the State of Delaware, and is qualified to do business in
the State of California. Seller has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement. This Agreement and the other documents executed by Seller in accordance herewith constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of
Seller, enforceable against Seller in accordance with their respective terms. All actions and approvals required under Seller s organizational documents and, except as set forth on  Schedule 5.1 , any agreements of Seller with third
parties to sell, transfer, convey and deliver the Property and consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement have been duly taken and obtained. All persons acting for and on behalf of Seller have the necessary authority to execute
documents and to otherwise consummate this transaction.       5.2 No Conflict.  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.2 , the execution
and delivery of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions provided for herein and the fulfillment of the terms hereof will not result in a material breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a material default under any
provision of Seller s organizational documents or any agreement by which Seller is bound, or any order or regulation of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over Seller.       5.3 Contracts.  Except as disclosed on the Preliminary Report or as listed in   Exhibit C   and   Exhibit D   hereto, or
provided in the Due Diligence Documents after the Effective Date (collectively, the   Contracts  ), there are no agreements relating to the Property to which Seller is party and by which Buyer or the Property will be bound after the
Closing, other than those that can be terminated without cause on no more than thirty (30) days  notice and that are listed in   Exhibit C   and   Exhibit D  . Except as noted on   Exhibit C   or   Exhibit
D  , the Contracts are in full force and effect and to Seller s knowledge, binding on the parties thereto. Seller has provided, or prior to the expiration of the Due Diligence Period will provide, correct and complete copies of the
Contracts to Buyer.       5.4 Litigation.  No litigation or other legal proceeding is pending, or to Seller s knowledge, proposed,
threatened or anticipated with respect to the Property or any matter affecting Seller s ability to transfer the Property.       5.5
Legal Compliance.  To Seller s knowledge, except as otherwise disclosed in  Schedule 5.5 , the Property and Seller s operations concerning the Property are not in violation of any applicable federal, state or local statute, law or
regulation (   Applicable Laws   ), and no notice from any Governmental Entity has been served upon Seller claiming any violation of Applicable Laws, or requiring or calling attention to the need for any work, repairs,
construction, alterations or installation on or in connection with the Property in order to comply Applicable Laws, with which Seller has not complied. If there are any such notices with which Seller has complied, Seller shall provide Buyer with
copies thereof.         
   - 11 -   

5.6 Hazardous Materials; Asbestos.        5.6.1 Definitions.  For purposes of this Agreement:      (a)    Environmental Law(s)    means all present and future laws that relate to the protection of human health, public or worker safety, occupation health, wildlife or the environment, including
without limitation, (i) federal, state, regional and local laws, regulations, rules, and other written requirements; (ii) permits, orders, plans, guidelines and similar directives of all federal, state, regional and local governmental
authorities; and (iii) administrative and judicial decrees, judgments, orders and directives.      (b)
   Hazardous Material    means any substance which is designated, defined, classified or regulated as a hazardous substance, hazardous material, toxic substance, hazardous waste, pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental
Law, as currently in effect, including, without limitation, petroleum hydrocarbons (including crude oil or any fraction thereof and all petroleum products and additives thereto), PCBs, asbestos, explosives, corrosives, toxic materials, flammable
materials, infectious materials, radioactive materials, carcinogenic materials, reproductive toxicants and mold.      (c)
   Release    means any accidental or intentional spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into the environment of any Hazardous Material (including the
abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers, and other receptacles containing any Hazardous Material).       5.6.2 Representations.
 Except as otherwise disclosed in the Due Diligence Documents, or disclosed to Buyer through any physical testing or inspection of the Land or Improvements or otherwise:      (a) To Seller s knowledge, Seller has not received any written notice of violation issued pursuant to any Environmental Law with
respect to the Land or Improvements.      (b) To Seller s knowledge, during Seller s period of ownership of the
Property, there has been no Release by Seller on the Property of any Hazardous Materials in violation of any applicable Environmental Laws.      (c) To Seller s knowledge, during Seller s period of ownership of the Property, Seller has not installed any asbestos or asbestos-containing material in the Property through construction, renovation or
otherwise.       5.7 Government Action.  There are no presently pending or to Seller s knowledge, contemplated or threatened
(i) proceedings by any Governmental Entity to condemn or demolish the Land or Improvements or any part of them, or (ii) proceedings to declare the Land or Improvements or any part of them a nuisance. To Seller s knowledge there are no
presently pending zoning changes, or other proceedings or actions (including legislative action) by any Governmental Entity that will in any way affect the size of, use of, improvements on, construction on, or access to the Property, except as
disclosed in  Schedule 5.7 .       5.8 Liens.  Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.8 , there are no liens, pledges, charges,
security interests, encumbrances or other claims of any kind (collectively   Liens  ) with respect to the Personal Property that will not be paid at Closing.       5.9 Seller s Knowledge.  For purposes of this Agreement, the phrase  to Seller s knowledge  or other similar phrases shall mean
to the current actual knowledge of John Ritchie, Roger Wang and Seller s general counsel without any duty of inquiry or investigation. The individuals named in this Section 5.9 shall have no personal liability for any of Seller s
representations or warranties by reason of being named herein.         
   - 12 -   

5.10 Survival of Seller s Representations and Warranties.  The representations and warranties
set forth in this Section 5 are made as of the Effective Date and are remade as of the Closing Date and shall not be deemed to be merged into or waived by the instruments of Closing, but shall survive the Closing until 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time
on the first anniversary of the date of Closing (  Survival Expiration Date  ). Buyer shall have the right to bring an action thereon only if Buyer has given Seller written notice of the circumstances giving rise to the alleged breach
on or before the Survival Expiration Date.       5.11 Notice of Changed Circumstances.  If Seller becomes aware of any fact or
circumstance that would render false or misleading a representation or warranty made by Seller, Seller shall immediately give written notice of such fact or circumstance to Buyer.       5.12   Inaccuracies Known to Buyer.  Any fact, condition or circumstance actually known by or disclosed to Buyer prior to the expiration of
the Due Diligence Period that contradicts or renders untrue any warranty or representation made by Seller under this Agreement, shall render such warranty or representation superseded and of no effect to the extent of such contradiction or untruth.
If such fact, condition or circumstance known by or disclosed to Buyer prior to the expiration of the Due Diligence Period renders any warranty or representation of Seller untrue in a material respect, Buyer shall have the right to elect, as
Buyer s sole and exclusive remedy, either: (i) to terminate this Agreement and receive the return of the Deposit, or (ii) to waive such contradiction or untruth and proceed to Closing in accordance with this Agreement.       Section 6. BUYER S REPRESENTATIONS        6.1 
 Buyer s Authority.  Buyer hereby represents and warrants to Seller that Buyer has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement. This Agreement and the other documents executed by Buyer in accordance
herewith constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of Buyer, enforceable against Buyer in accordance with their respective terms. All persons acting for and on behalf of Buyer have the necessary authority to execute documents and to otherwise
consummate this transaction.       6.2 Financing.  Buyer has or will on the Closing Date have all funds necessary to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement.       6.3 Litigation.  To Buyer s actual knowledge (without inquiry or investigation)
there is no pending litigation, administrative proceeding, or other legal action or act by a Governmental Entity which would prevent the Closing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.       6.4 Survival of Buyer s Representations and Warranties.  The representations and warranties set forth in this Section 6 are made as of
the Effective Date and are remade as of the Closing Date and shall not be deemed to be merged into or waived by the instruments of Closing, but shall survive the Closing until the Survival Expiration Date. Seller shall have the right to bring an
action thereon only if Seller has given Buyer written notice of the circumstances giving rise to the alleged breach before the Survival Expiration Date.         
   - 13 -   

6.5 Notice of Changed Circumstances.  If Buyer becomes aware of any fact or circumstance that would
render false or misleading a representation or warranty made by Buyer, Buyer shall immediately give written notice of such fact or circumstance to Seller.       Section 7. AS-IS; INDEMNITY; RELEASE        7.1  AS IS  SALE.        7.1.1   NO RELIANCE ON DISCLOSURES . ACKNOWLEDGING (A) BUYER HAS ACQUIRED AND OWNS REAL PROPERTY IN FOSTER CITY IN THE VICINITY OF THE
PROPERTY; (B) BUYER HAS HAD OR WILL HAVE AN ADQUATE TIME TO MAKE AN EVALUATION OF THE PROPERTY; (C) BUYER HAS ENTERED INTO THIS AGREEMENT WITH THE INTENTION OF MAKING AND RELYING UPON ITS OWN INVESTIGATION OR THAT OF THIRD PARTIES WITH
RESPECT TO THE PHYSICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, ECONOMIC AND LEGAL CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY, (D) BUYER HAS CONTRACTED OR MAY CONTRACT WITH CERTAIN ADVISORS AND CONSULTANTS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANTS, ENGINEERS AND
GEOLOGISTS, SOILS AND SEISMIC EXPERTS, TO CONDUCT SUCH ENVIRONMENTAL, GEOLOGICAL, SOIL, HYDROLOGY, SEISMIC, PHYSICAL, STRUCTURAL, MECHANICAL AND OTHER INSPECTIONS OF THE PROPERTY AS BUYER DEEMS TO BE NECESSARY AND THAT BUYER HAS REVIEWED OR WILL
REVIEW ALL SUCH REPORTS AS WELL AS ALL MATERIALS AND OTHER INFORMATION GIVEN OR MADE AVAILABLE TO BUYER BY SELLER, BUYER AGREES, SUBJECT TO THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SET FORTH HEREIN, TO TAKE THE PROPERTY  AS-IS, 
 WHERE-IS,  AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND CONDITIONS THEREON. ANY INFORMATION, REPORTS, STATEMENTS, DOCUMENTS OR RECORDS PREPARED BY THIRD PARTIES (COLLECTIVELY, THE  DISCLOSURES ) PROVIDED OR MADE TO BUYER OR ITS CONSTITUENTS BY
SELLER OR ANY OF SELLER S AFFILIATES SHALL NOT BE REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF SELLER. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH HEREIN, BUYER SHALL NOT RELY ON SUCH DISCLOSURES, BUT RATHER, BUYER SHALL RELY ONLY ON ITS OWN INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY.
      7.1.2 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES.  BUYER FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT, SUBJECT TO THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES EXPRESSLY
SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, SELLER HAS NOT MADE, DOES NOT MAKE AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY SELLER OR ON BEHALF OF SELLER OR OTHERWISE, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, PAST, PRESENT OR FUTURE, OF, AS
TO, CONCERNING OR WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTY OR MATTERS AFFECTING THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION (A) THE NATURE, QUALITY OR CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE WATER, SOIL AND GEOLOGY; (B) THE INCOME
TO BE DERIVED FROM THE PROPERTY, (C) THE SUITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY FOR ANY AND ALL ACTIVITIES AND USES WHICH BUYER MAY CONDUCT THEREON, (D) THE COMPLIANCE OF OR BY THE PROPERTY WITH ANY LAWS, RULES, ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS OF ANY
APPLICABLE GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY, INCLUDING BUILDING, HEALTH, SAFETY, LAND USE AND ZONING LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ORDERS; (E) THE HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OF THE PROPERTY; (F) STRUCTURAL AND OTHER
ENGINEERING CHARATERISTICS (INCLUDING SEISMIC DAMAGE); (G) THE PRESENCE, EXISTENCE OR ABSENCE OF TERMITES, PESTS, HAZARDOUS WASTES, TOXIC SUBSTANCES OR OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS OR (H) ANY OTHER INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE PROPERTY OR
THE MARKET AND PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENTS IN WHICH IT IS LOCATED.         
   - 14 -   

7.1.3 RELEASE OF CLAIMS.  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, BUYER, ITS
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND ABSOLUTELY WAIVE, RELEASE AND AGREE NOT TO MAKE ANY CLAIM OR BRING ANY COST RECOVERY ACTION OR CLAIM FOR CONTRIBUTION OR OTHER ACTION OR CLAIM AGAINST SELLER OR SELLER S AFFILIATES, DIRECTORS,
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, LENDERS, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS FOR ANY  CLAIMS  (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3.1.3) OR COMPENSATION WHATSOEVER, DIRECT OR INDIRECT, KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, FORESEEN OR UNFORESEEN, ACCRUED OR UNACCRUED, LIQUIDATED OR UNLIQUIDATED,
FIXED OR CONTINGENT, WHICH BUYER EVER HAD, NOW HAS OR MAY HAVE, OR WHICH MAY ARISE IN THE FUTURE ON ACCOUNT OF OR IN ANY WAY GROWING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH (A) ANY FEDERAL, STATE, OR LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL OR HEALTH AND SAFETY LAW OR
REGULATION, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE COMPREHENSEIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION AND LIABILITY ACT OF 1980, 42 U.S.C. SECTION 9601, AS AMENDED OR ANY STATE EQUIVALENT, OR ANY SIMILAR LAW NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ENACTED OR
(B) ANY ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS WHATSOEVER ON ABOUT OR UNDER THE PROPERTY OR (C) SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 7.1.5 BELOW, ANY OTHER MATTER RELATING TO OR CONNECTED WITH THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS
SECTION 7 SHALL SURVIVE THE CLOSING. BUYER REPRESENTS TO SELLER THAT BUYER HAS CONDUCTED, OR WILL CONDUCT PRIOR TO CLOSING, SUCH INVESTIGATIONS OF PROPERTY AS BUYER DEEMS NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE TO SATISFY ITSELF AS TO THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY
AND THE EXISTENCE OR NONEXISTENCE OR CURATIVE ACTION TO BE TAKEN WITH RESPECT TO ANY HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES ON OR DISCHARGED FROM THE PROPERTY, AND WILL RELY UPON SAME.       7.1.4 RELEASE OF CERTAIN CLAIMS.  WITH RESPECT TO THE FOREGOING RELEASE OF CLAIMS, IN GIVING SUCH RELEASE, BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THE PROVISIONS OF
CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE SECTION 1542, AS AMENDED OR MODIFIED, WHICH PROVIDES THAT:       A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH
THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.       BUYER HEREBY SPECIFICALLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT BUYER HAS CAREFULLY REVIEWED THIS SECTION 7 AND DISCUSSED ITS IMPORT WITH LEGAL COUNSEL, IS FULLY AWARE OF ITS CONSEQUENCES,
AND THAT THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 7 ARE A MATERIAL PART OF THIS AGREEMENT; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, SUCH RELEASE, WAIVER OR DISCHARGE PURSUANT TO THIS SECTION 7 SHALL NOT APPLY AND SHALL BE OF NO FORCE OR EFFECT AS TO ANY CLAIMS RELATING TO
(I) SELLER S BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE BREACH OF ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, (II) SELLER S FRAUD (III) SELLER S INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION (IV)
CLAIMS DESCRIBED IN SECTION 7.1.5, OR (V) THAT SELLER S ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE, IF ANY, WAS IN ANY MANNER MATERIALLY FALSE.      Seller
(JR)            Buyer (JM)         
   - 15 -   

7.1.5   Third Party Claims.  In the event there are third party actions, suits or legal
proceedings (the   Proceeding  ) for injury or death to persons or damage to property arising out of or relating to events occurring on the Property during Seller s ownership of the Property, then Buyer shall have the right to
tender defense of any such Proceeding to Seller, and Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer harmless from and against any losses, damages, liabilities, fines, penalties, charges and all costs and expenses incurred or suffered by Buyer in
connection with or relating to the Proceeding; provided, however, that Seller shall have no such obligation unless: (a) Buyer notifies Seller in writing within forty-five (45) days of the date Buyer becomes first aware of the commencement
of a Proceeding against Buyer (provided that no failure or delay in giving notice will relieve Seller from its indemnity obligation, except to the extent that Seller is prejudiced by such failure or delay); (b) Buyer provides Seller with copies
of all documents received by Buyer relating to the Proceeding; (c) Buyer gives Seller, with reputable counsel of Seller s choosing, the sole power to direct and control the settlement and defense of the Proceeding, provided that Seller
will not settle a Proceeding without Buyer s consent unless (i) all claims in the Proceeding against Buyer will be dismissed with prejudice as part of the settlement and (ii) the sole relief provided is to be paid in full or performed
by Seller; and (d) Buyer uses commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate and assist Seller in its defense or settlement of the Proceeding. This Section 7.1.5 shall in no way apply to or alter Buyer s release of claims set forth in
Section 7.1.3(A) and 7.1.3(B).       7.2 Survival.  Buyer s agreements and covenants under this Section 7 shall survive the
Closing.       Section 8. OPERATION OF THE PROPERTY PENDING THE CLOSING        8.1 Normal Course of Business.  Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to continue to operate, manage and maintain the Property in such condition so that the Property shall be in substantially the same
condition as of the Closing Date as it was on the Effective Date, ordinary wear and tear excepted. Ordinary wear and tear shall not include any failure by Seller to utilize good maintenance practices. Seller shall maintain all existing insurance
policies in connection with the Property. Except as may be required with respect to Seller or Seller s Property by the REA or the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for Vintage Park dated December 27, 1985, and recorded
December 27, 1985 in the Official Records of the County as Document No. 85138387 Seller s existing liability and property insurance pertaining to the Property may be canceled by Seller as of the Closing Date. Seller shall not make any
material alterations to the Property without the prior written approval of Buyer, which may be withheld in Buyer s sole discretion.       8.2 No New Leases .   Seller shall not enter into any new leases for any portion of the Property, or modify, extend or terminate any of the existing Leases, without the prior written consent of Buyer.       8.3 Maintenance of Condition of Title.  During the term of this Agreement, Seller shall not allow any Lien or any other matter to cause the
condition of title to the Property to be changed from that as existed as of the Effective Date, without Buyer s prior written consent.         
   - 16 -   

8.4 Leases.  Between the date of this Agreement and the Closing Date, Seller shall not, without
Buyer s prior written consent, in Buyer s sole and absolute discretion, (i) renew any Leases, (ii) amend any Leases, (iii) terminate any Leases or (iv) enter into any leases affecting the Property.       8.5 Contracts.  Seller will not enter into any purchase contract obligation which will not be paid in full prior to the Closing Date or any
service, maintenance, or management, design or improvement contract that cannot be canceled upon thirty (30) days  notice at no cost to Buyer unless Seller first obtains the written approval of Buyer, in Buyer s sole discretion.
      8.6   Mutual Cooperation.  Seller and Buyer shall each cooperate with the other in pursuing the matters required to be
performed by the other as set forth in this Agreement and otherwise shall use commercially reasonable efforts to fulfill the conditions to Closing.       8.7 Further Encumbrances.  Seller shall not execute any documents or otherwise take any action that will have the result of further encumbering the Property in any fashion.       Section 9. CLOSING        9.1 Time.  Provided that
all conditions set forth in Section 4 have been either satisfied or waived by the appropriate party, the parties shall close the transaction contemplated by this Agreement (the    Closing   ), on a date designated by Buyer
after January 1, 2009 and before January 29, 2009, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties (the    Closing Date   ). Buyer shall give Seller at least thirty-five (35) days prior written notice of the
Closing Date.       9.2 Escrow.  The terms of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, the terms contained in this Section 9),
together with such additional instructions as the Title Company shall reasonably request and to which the parties shall agree, shall constitute the escrow instructions to the Title Company. If there is any inconsistency between this Agreement and
any additional escrow instructions given to the Title Company, this Agreement shall control unless the intent to amend this Agreement is clearly and expressly stated in the additional escrow instructions. Buyer and Seller shall cause the Title
Company to execute and deliver a counterpart of this Agreement to each of them.       9.3 Seller s Deposits Into Escrow.  Seller
shall deposit into escrow on or before Closing the following documents:       9.3.1 Grant Deed.  A duly executed and acknowledged grant
deed in the form of   Exhibit H  , conveying good and marketable fee simple title to the Property to Buyer, subject only to the Exceptions (if any) approved or deemed approved by Buyer pursuant to Section 3.4 (the    Grant
Deed          9.3.2 Bill of Sale.  A duly executed bill of sale in the form of   Exhibit I  , conveying the
Personal Property to Buyer without representation or warranty (the    Bill of Sale          9.3.3 Lease Assignment. 
A duly executed and acknowledged assignment in the form of   Exhibit J  , assigning to Buyer all of Seller s interest as landlord under each of the Leases (the    Lease Assignment          9.3.4 EFI Lease.  A duly executed EFI Lease.         
   - 17 -   

9.3.5 REA.  A duly executed and acknowledged REA.       9.3.6 Assignment of Contracts and General Assignment.  A duly executed assignment in the form of   Exhibit K  , assigning to Buyer all of
Seller s interest in the Contracts and Other Assets (the    General Assignment          9.3.7 Assignment of
Development Agreement.  A duly executed and acknowledged Assignment of Development Agreement;       9.3.8 Child Care Center Agreement. 
A duly executed Child Care Center Agreement;       9.3.9 Non-Foreign Certificate.  A duly executed certificate of Seller stating that
Seller is not a  foreign person  within the meaning of Section 1445(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the    Non-Foreign Certificate          9.3.10 Withholding Affidavit.  Seller s affidavit of nonforeign status as contemplated by California Revenue and Taxation Code
Sections 18662 and 18668 (the    Withholding Affidavit          9.3.11 Natural Hazard Disclosure Statement.  A
completed and executed natural hazard disclosure statement, which shall disclose whether the Property is located within one (1) or more of the six (6) natural hazard zones specified in California Civil Code Section 1103.2 (the
   Natural Hazard Disclosure Statement    and       9.3.12 Seller Estoppels.  Any Seller Estoppels required pursuant
to Section 3.1.8.       9.3.13 Tenant Notices.  Letters addressed to each tenant of the Property, identifying Buyer as the new owner
of the Property and stating the address to which future rent payments and correspondence should be sent (the    Tenant Notices   ) in the form attached hereto as   Exhibit L  ; and       9.3.14   Other.  Such additional documents, including written escrow instructions consistent with this Agreement, as may be reasonably
necessary for conveyance of the Property in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.       9.4 Buyer s Deposits into Escrow. 
Buyer shall deposit into escrow on or before Closing:       9.4.1 Purchase Price.  The balance of the Purchase Price in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2, plus or minus prorations and closing costs as provided in Section 9.6, by electronic transfer of immediately available funds;       9.4.2 Lease Assignment.  A counterpart of the Lease Assignment duly executed by Buyer;       9.4.3 EFI
Lease.  A counterpart of the EFI Lease duly executed by Buyer;       9.4.4 Reciprocal Easement Agreement.  A counterpart of the REA
duly executed and acknowledged by Buyer.         
   - 18 -   

9.4.5 General Assignment.  A counterpart of the General Assignment duly executed by Buyer;
      9.4.6 Assignment of Development Agreement.  A counterpart of the Assignment of Development Agreement duly executed and acknowledged
by Buyer;       9.4.7 Child Care Center Agreement.  A counterpart of the Child Care Center Agreement duly executed by Buyer; and
      9.4.8 Other.  Such additional documents, including written escrow instructions consistent with this Agreement, as may be reasonably
necessary for conveyance of the Property in accordance with this Agreement.       9.5 Closing.  When the Title Company has received all
documents and funds identified in Sections 9.3 and 9.4 has received written notification from Buyer and Seller that all conditions to Closing have been satisfied or waived; and the Title Company is irrevocably committed to issue the Title
Policy as described in Section 4.1.3, then, and only then, the Title Company shall take the following actions in the following chronological order:       9.5.1  Record the REA, the Grant Deed, the Assignment of Development Agreement and the Lease Assignment (the    Recordable Documents   ), in that order;       9.5.2  Issue the Title Policy to Buyer;       9.5.3  Deliver to Buyer: (i) a conformed copy (showing all recording information thereon) of the Recordable Documents, (ii) the original Bill of Sale, (iii) fully executed originals of the General Assignment, EFI Lease,
and Child Care Center Agreement, (iv) the Non-Foreign Certification, (v) the Withholding Affidavit, (vi) the Natural Hazard Disclosure Statement, (vii) the Seller Estoppels, if any, (viii) the Tenant Notices; and   
   9.5.4  Deliver to Seller: (i) a conformed copy (showing all recording information thereon) of the Recordable Documents, (ii) fully
executed originals of the General Assignment, EFI Lease and Child Care Center Agreement and (iii) the Purchase Price (as adjusted pursuant to Section 9.6).      The Title Company shall prepare and sign closing statements showing all receipts and disbursements and deliver copies to Buyer and Seller.       9.6   Prorations and Closing Costs.  Subject to the other provisions of this Section 9.6, all receipts and disbursements of the Property will be prorated as of 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time on the day
immediately preceding the Closing Date. Not less than five (5) business days prior to the Closing, the Title Company shall submit to Buyer and Seller for their approval a tentative prorations schedule showing the categories and amounts of all
prorations proposed. The parties shall agree on a final prorations schedule prior to the Closing. If following the Closing either party discovers an error in the prorations statement, it shall notify the other party and the parties shall promptly
make any adjustment required. The provisions of this Section 9.6 shall survive the Closing.       9.6.1   Property Rents.  Buyer
shall be credited and Seller charged with rent and other payments, including percentage rent and operating costs, due by tenants under the Leases for periods subsequent to the Closing Date. Rent under the Leases shall be apportioned as of the

- 19 -   

Closing Date (with the Closing Date belonging to Buyer) on the basis of a 365-day year. All rents and other sums received by Buyer after the Closing Date
shall be applied first to rent and other obligations accrued or due on or after the Closing Date and then to unpaid rent accruing prior to the Closing Date. Buyer hereby agrees to promptly pay to Seller any amounts due to Seller after Closing.
Seller shall be permitted to pursue its remedy for collection of any rent arrearages applicable to the period prior to the Closing Date.       9.6.2 Security Deposits.  Buyer shall be entitled to credit against its obligation to pay the Purchase Price for the total sum of all rental deposits, security deposits, and other deposits paid to Seller by tenants under any Leases,
except to the extent such deposits have been applied in accordance with the terms of any Lease.       9.6.3 Property Taxes.  All real and
personal property taxes, assessments, improvement bonds and other similar expenses, if any, whether payable in installments or not, including, without limitation, all supplemental taxes attributable to the period prior to the Closing Date for the
calendar year in which the Closing occurs, shall be prorated to the Closing Date, based on the latest available tax rate and assessed valuation. If the amount of any installment of real property taxes is not known as of the Closing Date, then a
proration shall be made by the parties based on a reasonable estimate of the real property taxes applicable to the Property and the parties shall adjust the proration when the actual amount becomes known upon the written request of either party made
to the other. In the event any error in proration is discovered post-closing, each party agrees to pay to the other any amount required to adjust and correct the error in proration within thirty (30) days of written demand.       9.6.4 Utility Charges.  All utility charges attributable to the period before the Closing Date shall be paid by Seller. Seller shall cause all
meters to be read on the day before the Closing Date. All utility security deposits, if any, shall be retained by Seller or, if Buyer elects, shall be assigned to Buyer and credited to Seller at Closing.       9.6.5 Closing Costs.  Seller shall pay all county transfer taxes. Buyer shall pay the cost of (i) the Title Policy, and any additional
coverage or endorsements desired by Buyer, (iii) the survey costs, if any, in connection with obtaining an ALTA survey or extended coverage, and (iv) all escrow fees. Seller and Buyer shall each pay all other closing costs in accordance
with County custom.       9.7   Possession.  Seller shall deliver exclusive right of possession to the Property to Buyer on the
Closing Date, subject only to the Exceptions (if any) approved by the Buyer pursuant to Section 3.4 and the rights of any tenants under the Leases.       Section 10. ADDITIONAL COVENANTS        10.1 Fitness Center.  Building B currently contains a fitness center (the
   Fitness Center   ), which is currently used by Seller s employees. From and after the Closing until the earlier of (i) the date Seller has constructed its own gym facilities in Building A or (ii) July 15,
2009, Buyer shall permit individuals who are employees of the Seller as of the Effective Date, and continue to be employed by Seller thereafter, to continue to use the Fitness Center during its hours of operation, at no charge or cost to Seller or
Seller s employees. Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer its employees, authorized agents, consultants, contractors and representatives harmless from any Claims arising directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of any use of the
Fitness Center by Seller s employees, and the foregoing indemnification shall extend to Claims arising out of or alleged to arise out of Buyer s active or passive negligence.         
   - 20 -   

10.2   Parking.  Parking for Building A is currently provided on portions of the Property.
During the Due Diligence Period, Buyer and Seller will negotiate in good faith to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan regarding the initial allocation and location of parking for Buyer s and Seller s employees upon Closing as well as
provisions for making modifications to this initial allocation and location as a function of Gilead s development of the Property. If Buyer and Seller have not arrived at an agreement by December 8, 2008, Buyer and Seller will agree in the
REA that Seller shall have perpetual parking rights sufficient to meet the requirements of Seller s current use permit for the Retained Property and such that neither Buyer s nor Seller s employees will have any priority on specific
parking spots or locations; provided that Buyer will have the sole and absolute discretion regarding the development and location of all parking lots, garages or other facilities so long as parking for Building A is in compliance with the applicable
use permits. In no event shall Seller be required to pay for any costs of construction of any parking structure on the Property, but Seller shall pay a pro rata share of ordinary and reasonable maintenance and repair costs of such parking facilities
(whether on-grade or structured) based on relative number of parking spaces utilized by Buyer and Seller.       10.3 Skywalk.  Building A
and Building B are currently connected by a skywalk. At the end of the Due Diligence Period, Buyer shall inform Seller whether Buyer wishes to acquire the skywalk as part of Building B. If Buyer so elects, the REA shall include an easement for the
benefit of Buyer for access, maintenance and repair of the skywalk. From and after April 16, 2009, Seller and Buyer shall each have the right, at their respective discretion, to close off access to the skywalk at any time, on written notice to
the other party. In addition, if Buyer acquires the skywalk, Buyer shall have the right to remove the skywalk at any time, in compliance with all applicable laws; provided that: (i) Seller shall have the right to review and approve any plans
for demolition of the skywalk, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; (ii) Buyer shall cooperate with Seller to minimize disruption to Seller s operations at the Retained Property; (iii) Buyer shall
bear all costs and expenses in connection with such demolition work, including without limitation the costs of repair of any damage to Building A and/or the Retained Property, and (iv) Buyer and Seller shall have entered into an agreement
reasonably satisfactory to Seller providing for Buyer s access to the Retained Property for demolition purposes and an indemnity with respect to Claims arising from the demolition work.       10.4   Forms of Agreements.  During the Due Diligence Period, Buyer and Seller shall endeavor in good faith to agree upon the forms of the
REA, the EFI Lease, and any other document or instrument reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement.       10.5 Press
Release/Public Disclosure.  Subject to applicable law or any listing agreement with a securities exchange or NASDAQ, (i) Buyer and Seller shall consult with each other before issuing or making, and to the extent reasonably practicable, shall
provide each other with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment upon, any press release or other public statement or filing relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby and (ii) each party shall obtain the
other party s prior approval of any press release disclosing the sale of the Property pursuant to this Agreement.       10.6 First Offer
Right.  Subject to the approval by Seller s ground lessee of the Retained Property (the    Ground Lessee   ) and in consideration of the Purchase Price, Buyer shall have a right of first offer (the   Right of First
Offer  ) to purchase or lease the Retained Property on the terms set forth in this Section 10.6. Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the Ground Lessee s consent to the Right of First Offer prior to expiration
of the Due Diligence Period.         
   - 21 -   

10.6.1  If Seller elects to sell or lease any portion of the Retained Property to any unaffiliated
third party, prior to conducting any marketing activity, Seller will deliver to Buyer a written offer (the   Offer  ) setting forth all the material terms upon which Seller proposes to sell or lease the Retained Property and offering
to sell or lease the Retained Property to Buyer on the same terms. Buyer shall have ten (10) business days after receipt of an Offer in which to notify Seller (the   Notice  ) that it would like to purchase the Property on the
terms set forth in the Offer. If Buyer provides the Notice, within a reasonable time thereafter Seller and Buyer shall enter into a mutually satisfactory purchase and sale agreement (on substantially similar terms as this Agreement to the extent
such terms are relevant) with respect to the sale of the Retained Property, or a mutually satisfactory lease of the Retained Property, and the sale or lease of the Retained Property will be completed pursuant to such agreement or lease. If Buyer
does not timely deliver the Notice or rejects the Offer or if despite reasonable good faith efforts, Buyer and Seller fail to enter into a purchase agreement or lease within forty-five (45) days after delivery of Buyer s Notice, Seller may
sell or lease the Retained Property pursuant to Section 10.6.2.       10.6.2  If Buyer does not timely deliver the Notice, Seller may
sell or lease the Retained Property to any unaffiliated third party on any terms desired by Seller so long as the terms are not  materially more favorable  to the third party buyer than those of the Offer. In the event that the proposed
terms of a sale or lease are  materially more favorable  than the terms of the Offer, then Seller shall re-offer the Retained Property to Buyer on such terms and Buyer shall have five (5) business days after receipt of the written
re-offer in which to deliver a Notice with respect to the re-offer. If Buyer provides the Notice, then within a reasonable time thereafter, Seller and Buyer shall enter into a mutually satisfactory purchase and sale agreement on substantially
similar terms as this Agreement to the extent such terms are relevant) with respect to the sale of the Retained Property, or a mutually satisfactory lease, as the case may be, and the sale or lease will be completed pursuant to such agreement or
lease. If Buyer does not timely deliver the Notice or rejects the re-offer, or if despite reasonable good faith efforts, Buyer and Seller fail to enter into a purchase agreement or lease within forty-five (45) days after delivery of
Buyer s Notice, Seller may sell or lease the Retained Property to any unaffiliated third party on terms that are not  materially more favorable  to the third party buyer than the terms of the re-offer. For the purpose of this
Paragraph,  materially more favorable  means that the aggregate value of the purchase price (or rent) and the other economic terms of the third-party purchase (or lease) is lower than ninety-five percent (95%) of the purchase price
(or rent) and the other economic terms of the Offer or re-offer, as applicable.       10.6.3  Notwithstanding that Buyer may have rejected
or not timely delivered a Notice with respect to an Offer or re-offer, Seller shall keep Buyer informed about Seller s efforts to market the Retained Property, and Buyer s Right of First Offer shall continue until the Retained Property is
sold to Buyer or a third party in accordance with Section 10.6. If, and only if, Seller sells the Retained Property to a third party in compliance with the terms of this Section 10.6, the Retained Property shall no longer be subject to
Buyer s Right of First Offer. The provisions of this Section 10.6 shall not apply to any sale or lease of any portion of the Retained Property to any wholly-owned subsidiary of Seller, or to any transfer in connection with a merger,
acquisition or consolidation of Seller.         
   - 22 -   

10.6.4  Buyer s Right of First Offer shall be subject and subordinate at all times to the lien
of any mortgage, deed of trust, ground lease, synthetic lease or other financing instruments which may now exist or hereafter be executed, for which the Retained Property or any ground leases or underlying leases, or Seller s interest or estate
in any of said items, is specified as security. Buyer agrees to execute and deliver, upon demand by Seller and in the form reasonably requested by Seller, any additional documents evidencing the subordination of Buyer s Right of First Offer.
      10.6.5  The covenants set forth in Section 10.6 shall survive the Closing indefinitely until the property is sold or leased to
Buyer or a third party in accordance with Section 10.6.       Section 11. DEFAULT        11.1 Default Defined.  As used in this Agreement the term  default  shall mean a breach of this Agreement that has not been cured within
the time period provided in Section 11.2.       11.2   Notice and Opportunity to Cure.  If either party breaches its obligations
under this Agreement, the non-breaching party shall give the breaching party written notice of such breach , and the opportunity to cure such breach for a period of five (5) business days after delivery of the notice of breach with respect to a
monetary breach, or fifteen (15) business days after delivery of the notice of breach with respect to a non-monetary breach.       11.3
Buyer s Remedies Prior to Closing.       (a) If Seller is in default or breach of the Agreement (and Buyer is not then
in breach of the Agreement), such default or breach becomes actually known to Buyer prior to expiration of the Due Diligence Period and Buyer does not timely provide the Approval Notice, this Agreement shall terminate and Buyer shall be entitled to
reimbursement from Seller of the documented costs of its Due Diligence Investigation, up to a maximum amount of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000). If Buyer timely delivers the Approval Notice, Buyer shall be deemed to have waived all
defaults or breaches by Seller actually known to Buyer prior to expiration of the Due Diligence Period.      (b) If, after
expiration of the Due Diligence Period and prior to the Closing, Seller is in breach or default of the Agreement (and Buyer is not then in breach of the Agreement) and such breach or default was not actually known by Buyer during the Due Diligence
Period, Buyer shall be entitled to all remedies for Seller s breaches, whether at law or in equity (including, without limitation, terminating the Agreement, closing Escrow and recovering damages and/or seeking specific performance), subject to
the limitations set forth in Section 11.6.       11.4 Seller s Remedies Prior to Closing.  In the event of Buyer s material
default, provided Seller is not then in breach of this Agreement, Seller shall have the option to terminate this Agreement and retain the Deposit as liquidated damages, pursuant to Section 2.2.5.       11.5 Release from Escrow.  Upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Sections 11.3 and 11.4, the Title Company shall promptly return to
Buyer and Seller, respectively, all documents and monies deposited by them into escrow, subject to Seller s right to retain the Deposit pursuant to Sections 2.2.5. and 11.4.         
   - 23 -   

11.6 Seller s Default after Closing; Limitation of Liability.  If Seller is in breach of its
obligations under this Agreement, including without limitation an uncured breach of any of Seller s representations and warranties under this Agreement and such breach becomes known to Buyer after expiration of the Due Diligence Period, or if
any other Seller breach occurs or is discovered after the Closing of Escrow, then notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein: (i) Seller s maximum aggregate liability, and the maximum aggregate amount which may be awarded to and
collected by Buyer (whether the claim is brought in contract, tort, equity or otherwise) and including any amounts for attorney s and experts  fees and costs shall under no circumstances whatsoever exceed Six Million Eight Hundred
Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($6,875,000) and (ii) no claim by Buyer alleging a default by Seller may be made, and Seller shall have no liability for the same, unless and until such claims, either alone or together with any other claims made
by Buyer under this Agreement, is for an aggregate amount in excess of Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) (   Threshold Amount   ), in which event Seller s liability respecting any final judgment concerning such claim(s)
shall be for the full amount thereof. If any such final judgment is for an amount less than the Threshold Amount, then Seller shall have no liability with respect to such claim(s). In no event shall Buyer have any claims for lost opportunity, lost
profits or other damages of a consequential, special or indirect nature.       Section 12. DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION AND CONDEMNATION       If, prior to Closing, the Property, or any part thereof shall be condemned or destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty, Seller shall promptly so
notify Buyer. In the event of a Material Loss (hereinafter defined), Buyer shall have the option to terminate this Agreement by giving notice to Seller within fifteen (15) days of Seller s request that the option be exercised (but no later
than Closing). If the condemnation, destruction or damage does not result in a Material Loss, then Seller and Buyer shall consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement notwithstanding such condemnation, destruction or damage. If the
transaction contemplated by this Agreement is consummated, Buyer shall receive all condemnation proceeds and/or proceeds of insurance under all policies of insurance applicable to the destruction or damage of the Property together with any
deductible amounts which shall be paid by Seller to Buyer, and Seller shall, at Closing, execute and deliver to Buyer all customary proofs of loss and other similar items. If Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement in accordance with this
Section 12, the Deposit shall be returned to Buyer, this Agreement shall terminate and neither party shall have any further rights or obligations under this Agreement, except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement. For purposes of this
Section 12, a   Material Loss   means condemnation, damage or destruction that is reasonably estimated to cost or be valued at (as the case may be) more than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00).       Section 13. GENERAL        13.1 Notices.  All
notices, consents, requests, demands, approvals, and other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be effective for all purposes (a) upon receipt when personally delivered to the recipient at the
recipient s address set forth below, (b) when received by United States mail, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the recipient as set forth below, or when such receipt is rejected,
(c) one (1) business day after deposit with a recognized overnight courier or delivery service, or (d) when received by facsimile if delivery is confirmed by receipt of a successful transmission report generated by the sender s
facsimile machine addressed to the recipient as set forth below. If the date on which any notice to be given hereunder falls on a Saturday, Sunday or federal or state legal holiday, then such date shall automatically be extended to the next business
day immediately following such Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.         
   - 24 -   

The addresses for notice are:       
    Either party may change its address by written notice to the other given in the manner set forth above.
      13.2   Entire Agreement.  This Agreement and the NDA contain the entire agreement and understanding between Buyer and Seller
concerning the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, terms, understandings, conditions, representations and warranties, whether written or oral, made by Buyer or Seller concerning the Property or the other matters
which are the subject of this Agreement. This Agreement has been drafted through a joint effort of the parties and, therefore, shall not be construed in favor of or against either of the parties, and shall be construed as a whole in accordance with
its fair meaning, and without regard to California Civil Code Section 1654 or similar statutes.       13.3 Amendments and Waivers. 
No addition to or modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless set forth in writing and signed by the party against whom the addition or modification is sought to be enforced. The party benefited by any condition or obligation may waive
the same, but such waiver shall not be enforceable by another party unless made in writing and signed by the waiving party. No delay or failure to require performance of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of that provision.
Any waiver granted shall apply solely to the specific instance expressly stated.         
   - 25 -   

13.4 Severability.  The provisions of this Agreement are intended to be severable and enforced to
the maximum extent permitted by law. If for any reason any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, then that provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of the
invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and in that jurisdiction only, without in any manner affecting the validity, legality or enforceability of the unaffected portion and the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or any provision of the
Agreement in any other jurisdiction. The unaffected portion and provisions of the Agreement will be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law.       13.5 References.  Unless otherwise indicated, (a) all section and exhibit references are to the sections and exhibits of this Agreement, and (b) all references to days are to calendar days. All the
exhibits attached hereto are incorporated herein by this reference. The headings used in this Agreement are provided for convenience only and this Agreement shall be interpreted without reference to any headings. The masculine, feminine or neuter
gender and the singular or plural number shall be deemed to include the others whenever the context so indicates or requires.       13.6
Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California applicable to contracts made and to be performed in California.       13.7 Time.  Time is of the essence in the performance of each party s respective obligations under this Agreement, and no notice of a
party s intent to require strict compliance with the deadlines set forth in this Agreement is required.       13.8 Attorneys  Fees.
 If any legal action or other proceeding is commenced to enforce or interpret any provision of, or otherwise relating to, this Agreement, the losing party shall pay the prevailing party s actual expenses incurred in the investigation of any
claim leading to the proceeding, preparation for and participation in the proceeding, any appeal or other post judgment motion, and any action to enforce or collect the judgment including contempt, garnishment, levy, discovery and bankruptcy. For
this purpose  expenses  include, without limitation, court or other proceeding costs and experts  and attorneys  fees and their expenses. The phrase  prevailing party  shall mean the party who is determined in the
proceeding to have prevailed or who prevails by dismissal, default or otherwise.       13.9 Assignment.  Neither Buyer nor Seller shall
have the right to assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement without the consent of the other, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, Buyer may assign its rights to, and direct Seller to deliver the Grant
Deed to, an entity that is wholly-owned by Buyer. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.       13.10 Further Assurances.  Each party, at any time before or after Closing, at its own expense shall execute such documents and take such other
actions consistent with the terms of this Agreement reasonably required to carry out the terms of this Agreement.         
   - 26 -   

13.11 No Third Party Beneficiaries.  Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to
confer any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement on any person other than the express parties to this Agreement.       13.12 Commissions, Indemnity.  Buyer s broker in this transaction is Woodstock Development, Inc. Seller s broker is Jones Lang LaSalle. Each party shall be responsible for the payment of all commissions due to its respective
brokers. Each party represents to the other party that the representing party has incurred no liability for any brokerage commission or finder s fee arising from or relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, other than as set
forth in this Section 13.12. Each party hereby indemnifies and agrees to protect, defend and hold harmless the other party from and against all liability, cost, damage or expense (including, without limitation, attorneys  fees and costs
incurred in connection therewith) on account of any brokerage commission or finder s fee which the indemnifying party has agreed to pay or which is claimed to be due as a result of the actions of the indemnifying party. This Section 13.12
is intended to be solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and is not intended to benefit, nor may it be relied upon by, any person or entity not a party to this Agreement.       13.13 Recording.  Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, (i) Seller shall execute, in recordable form, and deliver to Title
Company a Short Form or Memorandum of this Agreement (the    Memorandum   ) in the form attached hereto as   Exhibit N   which shall be recorded in the Official Records upon receipt by the Title Company of the Initial
Deposit and (ii) Buyer shall execute, in recordable form, and deliver to Title Company a Quitclaim in the form attached hereto as   Exhibit N-1  , which shall be recorded by Escrow Holder upon written instructions to Escrow Holder by
both Seller and Buyer upon termination of this Agreement (i) because Buyer fails to timely delivery the Approval Notice or (ii) Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement pursuant to any provision of this Agreement giving Buyer the right to
do so or (iii) Seller elects to terminate this Agreement pursuant to any provisions of this Agreement giving Seller the right to do so. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13.13, Buyer shall not be obligated to
instruct Escrow Holder to record the Quitclaim if Buyer asserts that there is a breach or default by Seller under this Agreement with respect to which Buyer has the remedy of specific performance of Seller s obligation to convey title to the
Property to Buyer.       13.14 Transaction Expenses.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each party shall pay its own fees
and expenses incident to the negotiation, preparation, execution, authorization (including any necessary meetings or actions) or delivery of this Agreement and in consummating the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including, without
limitation, the fees and expenses of its attorneys, accountants and other advisors.       13.15 Counterparts.  This Agreement may be
executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Signature pages may be detached from the counterparts and attached to a single copy of this
Agreement to physically form one document. Any copies bearing faxed or photocopied signatures shall be valid, binding and admissible as though original.       13.16 Survival.  The provisions of this Agreement shall not merge with the delivery of the Deed, but shall survive the Closing indefinitely, except that the Representations and Warranties of Seller in
Section 5 above shall terminate at 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time on the Survival Expiration Date.         
   - 27 -   

Section 14. LIST OF EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES        

Exhibit   
      
     Description     

Exhibit A-1  
      
  Description of Seller s Property   

Exhibit A-2  
      
  Assessor s Parcel Map   

Exhibit A-3  
      
  Description of Property Being Sold   

Exhibit B  
      
  Excluded Personal Property   

Exhibit C  
      
  Leases   

Exhibit D  
      
  Contracts and Agreements   

Exhibits E1 and E2  
      
  Form of Tenant Estoppel Certificates   

Exhibits F1 and F2  
      
  Form of Seller Estoppel Certificates   

Exhibit G  
      
  Assignment of Development Agreement   

Exhibit H  
      
  Grant Deed   

Exhibit I  
      
  Bill of Sale   

Exhibit J  
      
  Lease Assignment   

Exhibit K  
      
  Assignment of Contracts and General Assignment   

Exhibit L  
      
  Form of Tenant Notice Letter   

Exhibit M  
      
  Intentionally omitted   

Exhibit N  
      
  Memorandum of Agreement   

Exhibit N-1  
      
  Quitclaim Deed   

Schedule 5.1  
      
  Authority   

Schedule 5.2  
      
  No Conflict   

Schedule 5.5  
      
  Legal Compliance   

Schedule 5.7  
      
  Government Action   

Schedule 5.8  
      
  Liens   
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date.   

BUYER:   

SELLER:    

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.,      A Delaware
Corporation   

ELECTRONICS FOR IMAGING, INC.,      A
Delaware Corporation    

By:  
     
  /s/ John F. Milligan  

By:  
     
  /s/ John Ritchie   
 
  Name:  
     
  John F. Milligan  

Name:  
     
  John Ritchie   
 
  Its:  
     
  President   Chief Operating Officer  

Its:  
     
  Chief Financial Officer   
       
   - 28 -   

Acceptance by Title Company        The Title Company acknowledges receipt of the foregoing Agreement and accepts the instructions contained herein.       

Dated: October 23, 2008   

First American Title Insurance Company   

By:  
     
  /s/ Karen Matsunaga   

Name:  
     
  Karen Matsunaga   

Title:  
     
  Senior Commercial Escrow Officer   
       
   - 29 -   

</EX-10.57>

<EX-21.1>
 6
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Country of Incorporation     
 
    Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited   
      
    Ireland    
 
    Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC   
      
    United States    
 
    Gilead Alberta ULC   
      
    Canada    
 
    Gilead Alberta, LLC   
      
    United States    
 
    Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation   
      
    Ireland    
 
    Gilead Colorado, Inc.   
      
    United States    
 
    Gilead Holdings, LLC   
      
    United States    
 
    Gilead Sciences (NZ)   
      
    New Zealand    
 
    Gilead Sciences Belgium   
      
    Belgium    
 
    Gilead Sciences Canada, Inc.   
      
    Canada    
 
    Gilead Sciences Cork Limited   
      
    Ireland    
 
    Gilead Sciences Denmark ApS   
      
    Denmark    
 
    Gilead Sciences Europe Ltd.   
      
    United Kingdom    
 
    Gilead Sciences Finland Oy   
      
    Finland    
 
    Gilead Sciences GesmbH.   
      
    Austria    
 
    Gilead Sciences GmbH   
      
    Germany    
 
    Gilead Sciences Hellas EPE   
      
    Greece    
 
    Gilead Sciences Holding, LLC   
      
    United States    
 
    Gilead Sciences Hong Kong Limited   
      
    Hong Kong    
 
    Gilead Sciences International Ltd.   
      
    United Kingdom    
 
    Gilead Sciences Lda.   
      
    Portugal    
 
    Gilead Sciences Limited   
      
    Ireland    
 
    Gilead Sciences llac Ticaret Limited Sireketi   
      
    Turkey    
 
    Gilead Sciences Ltd.   
      
    United Kingdom    
 
    Gilead Sciences Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
    Luxembourg    
 
    Gilead Sciences Netherlands BV   
      
    Netherlands    
 
    Gilead Sciences Norway AS   
      
    Norway    
 
    Gilead Sciences Pty Limited   
      
    Australia    
 
    Gilead Sciences S.L.   
      
    Spain    
 
    Gilead Sciences S.r.l.   
      
    Italy    
 
    Gilead Sciences SARL   
      
    France    
 
    Gilead Sciences Sweden AB   
      
    Sweden    
 
    Gilead Sciences Switzerland Sarl   
      
    Switzerland    
 
    Leaf   Shield Insurance Limited   
      
    Bermuda    
 
    Tri-Supply Limited   
      
    Ireland    

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-08085, 333-08083, 333-47520, 333-58893, 333-64628, 333-84713, 333-84719, 333-102911, 333-102912, 333-117480, 333-126012, 333-135412, 333-136814, 333-138985, 333-143920 and 333-151624)
pertaining to the 1991 Stock Option Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 1995 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan of Gilead Sciences, Inc., the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1993 Incentive Stock
Plan, the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, the Vestar, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, the Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, Option Agreement, dated August 5, 2002, between Triangle
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Daniel G. Welch, the Corus Pharma, Inc. 2001 Stock Plan, the Myogen, Inc. 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-103871, 333-111451, 333-138979, 333-54350 and 333-87167) of
Gilead Sciences, Inc. and in the related Prospectuses of our reports dated February 25, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Gilead Sciences, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Gilead Sciences, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2008.      /s/ E RNST    Y OUNG  L LP       Palo Alto, California      February 25, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

Certification of CEO, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, John C. Martin, Ph.D., certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 27, 2009   
     
    /s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN             

John C. Martin, Ph.D.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

Certification of CFO, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Robin L. Washington, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 27, 2009   
     
    /s/    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON             

Robin L. Washington       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(B) OR RULE 15D-14(B)

Certifications of CEO and CFO, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (the Company ) on Form 10-K for
the annual period ended December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Annual Report) and pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted), John
C. Martin, Ph.D., the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Robin L. Washington, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
      1.  The Company s Annual Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and       2.  The information contained in the Annual Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company at the end of the periods covered by the Annual Report and results of operations of the Company for the periods covered by the Annual Report.      Dated: February 27, 2009       

/s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

/s/    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON             
 
     John C. Martin, Ph.D.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

Robin L. Washington       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
    This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the SEC
and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any
general incorporation language contained in such filing.   

</EX-32.1>

