<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100301_10-K_edgar_data_882095_0001193125-10-044753_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5247134</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>714111</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>347661</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1208698</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1332984</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1403442</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>83</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-044753.hdr.sgml : 20100301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100301162809
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-044753
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100301

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GILEAD SCIENCES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000882095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				943047598
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19731
		FILM NUMBER:		10644894

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505743000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LnU7if3SYfZixNnpLVaW7LmGtTi5K3sbdi7CIbIpjFuOx/oQ7w3mNulNP8BmpPQF
 IN5qisKJiXNnCudfJ/78vA==

 0001193125-10-044753.txt : 20100301

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K  
                (Mark One)        
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009        or        
     For the transition period from              to
                   Commission File No. 0-19731    
             GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        (Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   94-3047598    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    
 
   333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California   
     
   94404    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)         Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 650-574-3000                  SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share  
     
  The Nasdaq Global Select Market        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE                 Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-Accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant based upon the closing price
of its Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 30, 2009 was $39,885,530,020.*      The number of shares
outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock on February 19, 2010 was 903,378,986.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE       Specified portions of the registrant s proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant s 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held on May 11, 2010, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.   

*  
  Based on a closing price of $46.84 per share on June 30, 2009. Excludes 53,682,316 shares of the registrant s Common Stock held by executive officers,
directors and any stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of registrant s common stock outstanding at June 30, 2009. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to indicate that any such person possesses the power, direct or indirect,
to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant.                 

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        2009 Form 10-K Annual Report          Table of Contents        

PART I   

Item 1  
      
     Business    
      
  2   
 
  Item 1A  
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  23   
 
  Item 1B  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  37   
 
  Item 2  
      
     Properties    
      
  37   
 
  Item 3  
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  38   
 
  Item 4  
      
     Reserved    
      
  38   

PART II   

Item 5  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

39   
 
  Item 6  
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  42   
 
  Item 7  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    
      
  44   
 
  Item 7A  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    
      
  63   
 
  Item 8  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  66   
 
  Item 9  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    
      
  66   
 
  Item 9A  
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  66   
 
  Item 9B  
      
     Other Information    
      
  68   

PART III   

Item 10  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  68   
 
  Item 11  
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  68   
 
  Item 12  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    
      
  68   
 
  Item 13  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  68   
 
  Item 14  
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  68   

PART IV   

Item 15  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  69   

SIGNATURES     
      
  129       We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD     , GILEAD SCIENCES     ,
TRUVADA     , VIREAD     , HEPSERA     , AMBISOME     , EMTRIVA     , VISTIDE     , LETAIRIS     , VOLIBRIS , RANEXA      and CAYSTON     . ATRIPLA      is a registered trademark belonging to Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. LEXISCAN      is a registered trademark belonging to Astellas U.S. LLC. MACUGEN      is a registered trademark belonging to Eyetech Inc. SUSTIVA      is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company. TAMIFLU      is a registered trademark belonging to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies.

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as  expect,   anticipate,   target,   goal,   project,   hope, 
 intend,   plan,   believe,   seek,   estimate,   continue,   may,   could,   should,   might,  variations of such words and similar expressions are
intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends, operating cost and revenue trends, liquidity
and capital needs and other statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various
reasons, including those identified below under  Risk Factors,  beginning at page 18. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included
in this report are made only as of the date hereof. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to
update any of these statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
         
   1   

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in
North America, Europe and Australia. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life threatening diseases to market. We continue to seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal
discovery and clinical development programs and through an active product acquisition and in-licensing strategy.      In 2009, we
acquired CV Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics), a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Palo Alto, California, primarily focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule drugs for the treatment of
cardiovascular diseases. CV Therapeutics had two marketed products, Ranexa (ranolazine) and Lexiscan (regadenoson), as well as several product candidates in clinical development for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases.
      Our Products        

Truvada   (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) is an oral formulation dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. It is a fixed-dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine).          

Atripla   (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the
treatment of HIV infection in adults. Atripla is the first once daily single tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. It is a fixed-dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread
and Emtriva, and Bristol Myers-Squibb Company s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, Sustiva (efavirenz).          

Viread   is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy
to treat HIV infection in adults. In 2008, we received marketing approval of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. We have licensed to GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) the rights to commercialize Viread for the treatment of chronic
hepatitis B in China.          

Emtriva   is an oral formulation of a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy
to treat HIV infection in adults. In the United States and Europe, Emtriva is also approved as part of combination therapy to treat HIV infection in children.          

Hepsera   (adefovir dipivoxil) is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue polymerase inhibitor, dosed once a day to treat chronic
hepatitis B. We have licensed to GSK the rights to commercialize Hepsera for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories.          

AmBisome   (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent to treat
serious invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species. Our corporate partner, Astellas Pharma US, Inc., promotes and sells AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we promote and sell AmBisome in Europe, Australia and New Zealand.

Letairis   (ambrisentan) is an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
(WHO Group 1) in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening. We sublicensed to GSK the rights to ambrisentan, marketed by GSK as Volibris (ambrisentan), for PAH in territories outside of the
United States.            
   2   

Table of Contents  

Ranexa   is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. We have licensed to Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA the rights
to Ranexa in territories outside of the United States.          

Vistide   (cidofovir injection) is an antiviral medication for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with AIDS.

Cayston   (aztreonam for inhalation solution) is an inhaled antibiotic as a treatment to improve respiratory systems in cystic fibrosis
(CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) . In September 2009, we received conditional marketing approval of Cayston in Europe and Canada. In February 2010, we received marketing approval of Cayston in the United States.
        The following table lists aggregate product sales for our major products (in thousands):       
    See Item 8, Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for our total revenues by geographic area.       Royalties from Other Products  

Tamiflu   (oseltamivir phosphate) is an oral antiviral available in capsule form for the treatment and prevention of influenza A and B.
Tamiflu is approved for the treatment of influenza in children and adults in more than 60 countries, including the United States, Japan and the European Union. Tamiflu is also approved for the prevention of influenza in children and adults in the
United States, Japan and the European Union. We developed Tamiflu with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche). Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay
us royalties based on a percentage of the net sales of Tamiflu.          

Macugen   (pegaptanib sodium injection) is an intravitreal injection of an anti-angiogenic oligonucleotide for the treatment of neovascular
age-related macular degeneration. Macugen was developed by Eyetech Inc. (Eyetech) using technology licensed from us and is now promoted in the United States by Eyetech. Eyetech holds the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Macugen in the United
States, and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Macugen in the rest of the world. We receive royalties from Eyetech based on sales of Macugen worldwide.          

Lexiscan   injection is indicated for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), a test that
detects and characterizes coronary artery disease, in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. Astellas US LLC has exclusive rights to manufacture and
           
   3   

Table of Contents  

sell Lexiscan in the United States, subject to its obligations to pay us royalties based on sales of Lexiscan in the United States. In May 2009, our marketing authorization application for
regadenoson for MPI in the European Union was validated by the European Medicines Agency.          Commercialization and
Distribution       We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.      Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third party distributors and corporate partners. Our
commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory for a
specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory.      In the United States, our commercial team promotes Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Ranexa. We promote Atripla in the United
States with our joint venture partner, Bristol Myers-Squibb Company (BMS). We distribute Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Vistide and Ranexa in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Our product sales to three large
wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted
for approximately 85% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 43% of our total revenues. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome and Lexiscan for us in the United States. Cayston and Letairis are
distributed exclusively by specialty pharmacies. These specialty pharmacies specialize in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling.      We sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome in Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and New
Zealand either through our commercial teams, third party distributors or corporate partners. We promote Atripla jointly with BMS in the majority of countries in Europe and are responsible for selling and distributing the product in these countries.
In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either Gilead, BMS or a third party distributor is the sole promoting, selling and distributing company. Under an agreement with Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck), we promote and
distribute Atripla in 12 countries in Latin America and Asia-Pacific either through Merck or our existing third party distributors. GSK promotes, sells and distributes Hepsera in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories and plans to
promote, sell and distribute Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in China. We rely on our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco Inc., to promote and sell Truvada, Viread and Emtriva in Japan. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells
and distributes AmBisome in Canada. Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd is responsible for promotion and distribution of AmBisome in Japan.       Access in the Developing World       Through the Gilead Access Program, established in 2003, certain of our HIV
products are available at substantially reduced prices in 130 countries in the developing world. We have developed a system of tiered pricing that reflects economic status (using gross national income GNI per capita) and HIV prevalence.
This approach allows us to price our therapies based on a country s ability to pay. For example, if a higher HIV prevalence exists in a certain country, but the country also has a relatively high GNI, the country would be moved to a lower price
tier to accommodate higher burden of disease.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   We also support many clinical studies through the donation of our products to help define
the best treatment strategies in developing world countries. For example, in November 2002, we entered into a collaborative agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) of the United Kingdom, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and GSK in connection with
a clinical study conducted by the MRC on antiretroviral HIV therapy in Africa. The trial is called the DART (Development of AntiRetroviral Therapy) study and is aimed at studying clinical versus laboratory monitoring practices and structured
treatment interruptions on continuous antiretroviral therapy in adults with HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. We provide Viread at no cost for the DART study.      We also work closely with the World Health Organization and with non-governmental organizations to provide AmBisome for the treatment of leishmaniasis, a parasitic disease, at a preferential price in
resource limited settings. We support numerous clinical studies investigating the role of AmBisome to treat visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis in developing countries through collaborations with organizations such as the Drugs for Neglected
Diseases initiative and M decins Sans Fronti res.      We have also entered into a number of collaborations related
to access of our products in the developing world, which include:       

PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd (PharmaChem).  In 2005, PharmaChem, one of our manufacturing partners, established a facility in The
Bahamas to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla, for resource limited countries through a cooperative effort with PharmaChem
and the Grand Bahama Port Authority.          

Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd (Aspen).  In October 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing and distribution agreement with Aspen,
providing for the manufacture and distribution of Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program. In November 2007, we amended our agreement with Aspen. Under the
amended agreement, Aspen retained the right to manufacture and distribute Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection in these developing world countries. Aspen has the right to purchase Viread and Truvada in unlabeled bottles from us for
distribution in such countries, and also has the right to manufacture Viread and Truvada using active pharmaceutical ingredient that has been purchased by Aspen from suppliers approved by us. Aspen was also granted the right to manufacture and
distribute generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with emtricitabine for the treatment of HIV infection. Aspen is required to pay us royalties on net
sales of Viread and Truvada, as well as royalties on net sales of generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with generic versions of emtricitabine that are manufactured and
distributed by Aspen.          

Generic Licenses.  We have entered into non-exclusive license agreements with thirteen Indian generic manufacturers, granting them the rights to
produce and distribute generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for the treatment of HIV infection to 95 low income countries around the world, which includes India and many of the low income countries in our Gilead Access Program. The
agreements require that the generic manufacturers meet certain national and international regulatory standards and include technology transfers to enable expeditious production of large volumes of high quality generic versions of tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate. In addition, these agreements allow for the manufacture of commercial quantities of both active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product.          

Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck).  In August 2006, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Merck pursuant to which Gilead and Merck
provide Atripla at substantially reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America and Southeast Asia. Under the agreement, we manufacture Atripla using efavirenz supplied by Merck, and Merck
handles distribution of the product in the countries covered by the agreement.            
   5   

Table of Contents  

International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) and CONRAD.  In December 2006, we entered into an agreement under which we granted rights to IPM
and CONRAD, a cooperating agency of the U.S. Agency for International Development committed to improving reproductive health by expanding the contraceptive choices of women and men, to develop, manufacture and, if proven efficacious, arrange for the
distribution in resource limited countries certain formulations of tenofovir for use as a topical microbicide to prevent HIV infection.          Competition       Our products and development programs target a number of
areas, including viral, fungal, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. There are many commercially available products for the treatment of these diseases. Many companies and institutions are making substantial investments in developing additional
products to treat these diseases. Our products compete with other available products based primarily on:       

efficacy;          

safety;          

tolerability;          

acceptance by doctors;          

ease of patient compliance;          

patent protection;          

ease of use;          

price;          

insurance and other reimbursement coverage;          

distribution; and          

marketing.           Our HIV Products.   The HIV landscape is becoming more competitive and complex as treatment trends continue to evolve. A growing number of anti-HIV drugs are currently sold or are in advanced stages of clinical development. Of
the approximately 32 branded HIV drugs available in the United States, our products primarily compete with the fixed-dose combination products in the nucleotide/nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) class, including Combivir
(lamivudine/zidovudine), Epzicom/Kivexa (abacavir/lamivudine) and Trizivir (abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine), each sold by a joint venture established in November 2009 by GSK and Pfizer focused on HIV therapies. Other HIV products compete directly
with products in the same NRTI class sold by BMS, although our HIV products also compete broadly with HIV products from Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck, Pfizer, Roche and Tibotec Therapeutics.      BMS s Videx EC (didanosine, ddI) became the first generic HIV product in the United States in 2004. GSK s Retrovir (zidovudine)
also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic zidovudine in 2005. BMS s Zerit (stavudine) also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic stavudine in 2008. To
date, there has been little impact from generic didanosine, zidovudine or stavudine on the price of our HIV products; however, price decreases for all HIV products may result in the longer term.      In May 2010, the compound patent covering Epivir (lamivudine) itself will expire. Lamivudine is marketed by the joint venture established by
GSK and Pfizer and is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Emtriva and a component of both Truvada and Atripla. Certain third party payors or plans may use the entry of generic lamivudine as a reason to exert
pricing pressure on our HIV products.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

     AmBisome.   AmBisome faces strong competition from several current and expected
competitors. Competition from these current and expected competitors may erode the revenues we receive from sales of AmBisome. AmBisome faces competition from Vfend (voriconazole) developed by Pfizer and caspofungin, a product developed by Merck
that is marketed as Cancidas in the United States and as Caspofungin elsewhere. AmBisome also competes with other lipid-based amphotericin B products, including Abelcet (amphotericin B lipid complex injection), sold by Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in
the United States, Canada and Japan and by Zeneus Pharma Ltd. in Europe; Amphotec (amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate complex for injection), sold by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC worldwide; and Anfogen (amphotericin B liposomal), sold
by Genpharma, S.A. in Argentina. BMS and numerous generic manufacturers sell conventional amphotericin B, which also competes with AmBisome.      We are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These
formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. The manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association.
       Our HBV Products.   Our hepatitis B virus (HBV) products, Hepsera and Viread, face significant competition from
existing and expected therapies for treating patients with chronic hepatitis B. Our HBV products face competition from Baraclude (entecavir), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by BMS and launched in the United States in 2005, and Tyzeka/Sebivo
(telbivudine), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) for sale in the United States, the European Union and China.      Our HBV products also compete with Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (lamivudine), developed by GSK in collaboration with Shire Pharmaceuticals Group PLC and sold in the major countries throughout North and South
America, Europe and Asia.      Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B also compete with established
immunomodulatory therapies, including Intron-A (interferon alfa-2b), which is sold by Schering Plough Corporation in major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia, and Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a), an injectable drug
similar to Intron-A sold by Roche for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.        Letairis.   Letairis competes
directly with Tracleer (bosentan) sold by Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with PAH products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer.        Ranexa.   Ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the United States, including generic and/or branded
beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates. In addition, surgical treatments and interventions such as coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous coronary intervention can be another option for angina patients, and may be
perceived by healthcare practitioners as preferred methods to treat the cardiovascular disease that underlies and causes angina.        Vistide.   Vistide competes with a number of drugs that also treat cytomegalovirus retinitis, including Cytovene IV and Cytovene (ganciclovir), sold in intravenous and oral formulations by Roche and as an ocular implant by
Bausch   Lomb Incorporated; Valcyte (valganciclovir), also marketed by Roche; Foscavir (foscarnet), an intravenous drug sold by AstraZeneca PLC; and Vitravene (fomivirsen), a drug injected directly into the eye, sold by CibaVision.
       Cayston.   Cayston competes primarily with Tobi (tobramycin inhalation solution, USP), an inhaled medication sold
by Novartis for the treatment of CF patients whose lungs contain  P. aeruginosa .        Tamiflu.   Tamiflu
competes with Relenza (zanamivir), an anti-influenza drug that is sold by GSK. Relenza is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is delivered as an orally-inhaled dry powder. Generic competitors include
        
   7   

Table of Contents  

amantadine and rimantadine, both oral tablets that only inhibit the replication of the influenza A virus. BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing injectable formulations of peramivir, an
influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza, which are currently in Phase 3 clinical trials.        Macugen.   Macugen competes primarily with Visudyne (verteporfin for injection), which is sold by Novartis and used in connection with photodynamic therapy, and Lucentis (ranibizumab), which is sold by Genentech, Inc.
       Lexiscan.   In the United States, there are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents
that compete with Lexiscan. Clinical Data, Inc. is developing apadenoson as a pharmacologic stress agent for MPI which is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials. King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing binodenoson, a pharmacologic stress agent
currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. These product candidates could also compete with Lexiscan.      A number of companies are
pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other
pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and
programs.       Collaborative Relationships       As part of our business strategy, we establish collaborations with other companies, universities and medical research institutions to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain
of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies,
universities and medical research institutions. More information regarding certain of these relationships, including their ongoing financial and accounting impact on our business can be found in Item 8, Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.        Commercial Collaborations        Although we currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern the manufacture, sale, distribution and/or
marketing of our products in various territories worldwide, the following commercial collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS).  In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS to develop and commercialize the single tablet
regimen of our Truvada and BMS s Sustiva in the United States. This combination was approved for use in the United States in July 2006 and is sold under the brand name Atripla. We and BMS structured this collaboration as a joint venture by
forming a limited liability company called Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. Under the terms of the collaboration, we and BMS granted royalty free sublicenses to the joint venture for the use of our respective company owned
technologies and, in return, were granted a license by the joint venture to use any intellectual property that results from the collaboration. The economic interests of the joint venture held by us and BMS (including share of revenues and
out-of-pocket expenses) are based on the portion of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to Truvada and Sustiva, respectively. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of Sustiva, both
our and BMS s respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually. We and BMS share marketing and sales efforts, with both parties providing equivalent sales force efforts at levels agreed to annually by BMS and us. The daily
operations of the joint venture are governed by four primary joint committees formed by both BMS and us. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax
           
   8   

Table of Contents  

reporting and product distribution for the joint venture. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into
Canada. The agreement will continue until terminated by the mutual agreement of the parties. In addition, either party may terminate the other party s participation in the collaboration          within 30 days after the launch of at least one generic
version of such other party s single agent products (or the double agent products). The non-terminated party then has the right to continue to sell Atripla and a short-term obligation to pay royalties to the terminated party.
         In December 2007, we entered into a collaboration with BMS which sets forth the terms and conditions
under which we and BMS commercialize Atripla in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Either we, BMS or a third party distributor act as the selling party in these countries and are responsible for, among other things,
receiving and processing customer orders, warehousing product, collecting receivables and handling returns. Manufacturing of Atripla is coordinated by us, and we are primarily responsible for distribution logistics. In general, the parties share
revenues and out-of-pocket expenses in proportion to the net selling prices of Truvada, with respect to us, and efavirenz, with respect to BMS. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of the last-to-expire patent which affords market
exclusivity to Atripla or one of its components in the European countries covered by the agreement. Prior to such time, either party may terminate the agreement for any reason, with such termination to be effective in December 2013. The
non-terminating party has the right to continue to sell Atripla, but will be obligated to pay the terminating party certain royalties for a three year period following the effective date of the termination. In the event the non-terminating party
decides not to sell Atripla, the effective date of the termination will be the date Atripla is withdrawn in each country or the date on which a third party assumes distribution of Atripla, whichever is earlier.       

F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche).  In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement
with Roche to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the original agreement, Roche had
the exclusive right and obligation to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of the net sales that Roche generated from Tamiflu sales. Under the agreement, we received an up-front payment in the
amount of $5.0 million and were entitled to receive additional milestone payments of up to $40.0 million upon the achievement of certain development and regulatory objectives. We have received all such milestone payments. In October 1996, Roche also
made a cash payment to us in the amount of $5.3 million related to reimbursement for certain research and preclinical development expenses and our obligation to prosecute and maintain certain patents under the agreement. In November 2005, we entered
into a first amendment and supplement to the original agreement with Roche. The amendment eliminated cost of goods adjustments from the royalty calculation, retroactive to calendar year 2004 and for all future calculations. The amendment also
provided for the formation of a joint manufacturing committee to review Roche s manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu
in the United States and a joint supervisory committee to evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis. Each of the committees consists of representatives from both Roche and us. Under the amendment, we have the
option to provide a specialized sales force to supplement Roche s U.S. marketing efforts for Tamiflu, which we have not exercised to date. The agreement and Roche s obligation to pay royalties to us will terminate on a country-by-country
basis as patents providing exclusivity for Tamiflu in such countries expire. Roche may terminate the agreement for any reason in which case all rights to Tamiflu would revert to us. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material
breach by the other party.          

GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK).  In March 2006, we sublicensed to GSK exclusive rights to market ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in
Letairis, which is marketed under the name
           
   9   

Table of Contents  

Volibris in territories outside the United States) for PAH in territories outside of the United States. Under the license agreement, we received an up-front payment of $20.0 million and, subject
to the achievement of specific milestones, we are eligible to receive total additional milestone payments of $80.0 million. Through December 31, 2009, we have received $42.5 million of such potential milestone payments. In addition, we will
receive royalties based on net sales of Volibris in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for Volibris in the GSK territories during the term of the license agreement.
Under the agreement, we will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Letairis and Volibris in the United States, Canada and the
European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional development activities in its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the licensed field, and each party will pay its
share of external costs associated with such joint development. The agreement and GSK s obligation to pay royalties to us will terminate on a country-by-country basis on the earlier of the date on which generic equivalents sold in a country
achieve a certain percentage of total prescriptions for the product plus its generic equivalents or the fifteenth anniversary of commercial launch in such country. GSK may terminate the agreement for any reason. Upon such termination, all rights to
the product would revert to us. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.           Research Collaborations        We currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that
govern our research and development (R D) of certain compounds and drug candidates. The following research collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing
collaboration activity exists.       

Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco).  In March 2005, we entered into a licensing agreement with Japan Tobacco, under which Japan Tobacco granted
us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco would retain such rights. Under the agreement, we are responsible for seeking
regulatory approval in our territories and are required to use diligent efforts to commercialize a product for the treatment of HIV infection. We will bear all costs and expenses associated with such commercialization efforts. Under the terms of the
agreement, we paid an up-front license fee of $15.0 million and are obligated to make total potential milestone payments of up to $90.0 million upon the achievement of certain clinical, regulatory and commercial objectives. Additionally, we are
obligated to pay royalties based on any net sales in the territories where we market the product. Through December 31, 2009, we have made total milestone payments of $12.0 million. The agreement and our obligation to pay royalties to Japan
Tobacco will terminate on a product-by-product basis as patents providing exclusivity for the product expire or, if later, on the tenth anniversary of commercial launch for such product. We may terminate the agreement for any reason in which case
the license granted by Japan Tobacco to us would terminate. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.          

Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec).  In July 2009, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Tibotec, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Johnson   Johnson, under which we will develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada and Tibotec s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, TMC278 (25 mg rilpivirine hydrochloride), which is currently in
Phase 3 clinical trials. Under the agreement, Tibotec granted us an exclusive license to the combination product for administration to adults in a once daily, oral dosage form, worldwide excluding developing world countries and Japan. Neither party
is restricted from combining its drugs with any other drugs. We will pay Tibotec up to  71.5 million of Tibotec s development costs for TMC278 and are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and formulate the
combination product, including
           
   10   

Table of Contents  

completion of bioequivalence studies. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $52.4 million in reimbursable R D expenses incurred by Tibotec in the development of TMC278.
Tibotec is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop TMC278 and obtain its approval in the United States and Europe. We will manufacture the combination product and assume the lead role in registration, distribution and, subject to
regulatory approval, commercialization of the combination product in the licensed countries. Tibotec will have the right to detail the combination product in the licensed countries, and, at its option, can request that it be the distributor of the
combination product in a limited number of such countries. The price of the combination product is expected to be the sum of the price of Truvada and the price of TMC278 purchased separately. The cost of TMC278 purchased by us from Tibotec for the
combination product will approximate the market price of TMC278, less a specified percentage of up to thirty percent.         Either party may terminate the agreement if the combination product is withdrawn from the market, if the other party materially breaches the agreement or if certain clinical or regulatory conditions are not met. We may terminate the
agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last-to-expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the United States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the
last-to-expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in a country of the European Union. Tibotec may terminate the agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last to-expire patent for TMC278 in the United
States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the last-to-expire patent for TMC278 in a country of the European Union.       Research and Development       In addition to entering into collaborations with
other companies, universities and medical research institutions, we seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs and through an active in-licensing and product acquisition
strategy, such as with our acquisitions of Myogen, Inc. and Corus Pharma, Inc. in 2006. In 2008, we acquired all of Navitas Assets, LLC s assets related to its cicletanine business, which we are evaluating as a potential treatment of PAH. In
2009, we acquired CV Therapeutics to further expand into the cardiovascular therapeutic area.      We have research scientists in
Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; and Seattle, Washington, engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to new medicines and novel formulations of existing
drugs.      Our product development efforts cover a wide range of medical conditions, including HIV/AIDS, liver disease,
cardiovascular disease and respiratory disease. Below is a summary of our key product candidates and their corresponding current stages of development. For additional information on our development pipeline, visit our website at www.gilead.com.

Product Candidate    
      
     Description     

Marketing Application Pending   

Regadenoson  
      
  In May 2009, our marketing authorization application for regadenoson for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide MPI in the European Union was validated by the
European Medicines Agency.   

Phase 3   

Ambrisentan  
      
  Ambrisentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist also being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and pulmonary hypertension secondary to IPF.

11   

Table of Contents  

Product Candidate    
      
     Description     

Elvitegravir  
      
  Elvitegravir is an oral integrase inhibitor that is being evaluated as part of combination therapy for HIV in treatment experienced patients.   

Combination of Truvada and TMC278  
      
  The combination of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, emtricitabine and TMC278 is under evaluation for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in treatment-naive patients, and formulation work is
underway to develop a once-daily, fixed-dose regimen of these three compounds.   

Phase 2   

Aztreonam for inhalation solution   
      
  Aztreonam for inhalation solution is also being evaluated for the treatment of bronchiectasis.   

Cicletanine  
      
  Cicletanine is an oral agent under evaluation for the treatment of PAH.   

Cobicistat (formerly GS 9350)  
      
  Cobicistat is a pharmacoenhancer that is under evaluation as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines and other antiretrovirals.   

Fixed-dose combination of elvitegravir, cobicistat and Truvada  
      
  The once-daily, fixed-dose  Quad  regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine is under evaluation for the treatment of HIV/AIDS
in treatment-na ve patients.   

GS 9190  
      
  GS 9190 is an oral non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.   

GS 9310/11  
      
  GS 9310/11 is an inhaled co-formulation of fosfomycin and tobramycin under evaluation for the treatment of bacterial infections associated with CF.   

GS 9450  
      
  GS 9450 is an oral caspase inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of hepatitis C and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.   

Preparing for Phase 2   

Ranolazine  
      
  Ranolazine is a late sodium current inhibitor and is also going to be evaluated for the treatment of diastolic heart failure in patients with preserved ejection
fraction.   

Phase 1   

GS 6201  
      
  GS 6201 is an A         2B    adenosine
antagonist under evaluation for the treatment of pulmonary diseases.   

GS 9256  
      
  GS 9256 is a novel protease inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.   

GS 9411  
      
  GS 9411 is an oral epithelial sodium channel blocker designed to increase airway hydration in patients with pulmonary disease.   

GS 9667  
      
  GS 9667 is a partial A   1    adenosine antagonist under evaluation for the treatment of diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia.       In total, our R D expenses for 2009 were $939.9 million compared with $721.8 million for 2008 and $591.0 million for 2007.       Patents and Proprietary Rights       Patents and other proprietary rights are
very important to our business. If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive
        
   12   

Table of Contents  

products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in
the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. We also rely on trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovations and
agreements with third parties to develop, maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy.      We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable
or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents.      The following table shows
the actual or estimated expiration dates in the United States and Europe for the primary patents and for patents that may issue under pending applications that cover the compounds in our marketed products:       

(1)  
  Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confers an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity until 2016.

(2)  
  SPC protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confers an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity until 2023.         

(3)  
  Patent term extension applied for.         

(4)  
  An SPC can be applied for upon marketing approval in the European Union.         

(5)  
  Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Truvada         

(6)  
  Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Atripla.         

(7)  
  Application pending.        Patents
covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis, Vistide and Lexiscan are held by third parties. We acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties.
Patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of Ranexa. Instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the
characteristic plasma levels they achieve. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. Instead, we hold patents to the liposomal formulations of this compound and also protect formulations through trade secrets. In addition, we do not
have patent filings in China and certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. We do have applications pending in various countries in Asia, including China, that relate to specific forms
and
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

formulations of Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed.      We may obtain patents for certain products many years before we obtain marketing approval for those products. Because patents have a
limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. For example, extensions for the patents on many
of our products have been granted in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term extensions may be available for other products that we are developing,
but we cannot be certain we will obtain them.      It is also very important that we do not infringe patents or proprietary rights
of others and that we do not violate the agreements that grant proprietary rights to us. If we do infringe patents or violate these agreements, we could be prevented from developing or selling products or from using the processes covered by those
patents or agreements, or we could be required to obtain a license from third parties to allow us to use their technology. We cannot be certain that, if required, we could obtain a license to any third party technology or that we could obtain one at
a reasonable cost. If we were not able to obtain a required license or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products, and our business could be adversely affected. For example, we are aware of a
body of patents that may relate to our operation of Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. In addition, Actelion, which markets Tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a
method of use for ERAs for the treatment of IPF. If issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own ERA, ambrisentan, for IPF.      Because patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending
applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or
compete with our patents. If competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are
expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such participation in such events.      Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will
likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or re-examination proceedings regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate our patents or
substantially reduce their protection. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil and
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active pharmaceutical ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the
re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.      Although we were successful in
responding to the PTO office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the U.S. patent re-examination proceedings
as grounds for rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority
issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the
rejection. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to
        
   14   

Table of Contents  

further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. If we are unable to
successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil. In 2009, the
Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. For 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our HIV products by the Brazilian government will be at a similar level.      As another example, the Patent Office of India initially allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
However, under Indian civil procedure, prior to the official grant of allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant the patents. In August 2009, the Indian Patent Office announced that it had decided
these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. We have filed an appeal within the Indian Patent Office on both of these applications. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. If we are unable to
successfully appeal these decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the Indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in India. In
addition, if we are unable to successfully appeal any further negative decisions by the Indian Patent Office in the Indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the
amount of royalties we receive from our Indian generic licenses.      Our pending patent applications and the patent applications
filed by our collaborative partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third parties from developing compounds or products that
are closely related to those which we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries in Africa and Asia, including China, do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of
our products in those countries.      As part of the approval process of some of our products, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products
that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our
products. It is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), which is the application form typically used by
manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully.      For example, in November 2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to
manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by Emory University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed
by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that
Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the notice, Teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva in U.S. District
Court in New York for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to
manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir patents protecting Viread. In January 2010, we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Truvada and Atripla. In the notice
related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. In the notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir, two additional patents related to
        
   15   

Table of Contents  

emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. We expect to file a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. BMS and Merck
have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of
our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Truvada, Atripla and Viread in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are
invalidated, the FDA could approve Teva s request to manufacture a generic version of such products.      We also rely on
unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. In particular, a great deal of our liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by
patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements provide that all confidential information
developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be used or disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide
that all inventions made by an individual while employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade
secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our R D agreements, inventions become jointly owned by us and our corporate partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one
party. In certain circumstances, it can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could arise regarding those inventions.       Manufacturing and Raw Materials       Our manufacturing strategy is to contract with third parties to manufacture
the majority of our solid dose products. We also rely on our corporate partners to manufacture certain of our products. Additionally, we own manufacturing facilities in San Dimas, California; Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; and Cork, Ireland, where we
manufacture certain products and active pharmaceutical ingredients for clinical and commercial uses.      We contract with third
parties to manufacture certain products for clinical and commercial purposes, including Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Ranexa, Vistide and Cayston. We use multiple third party contract manufacturers to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla; and emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in
Truvada and Atripla. We rely on a single third party manufacturer to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Vistide, Ranexa and Cayston. The diluent for Cayston is also manufactured by a single manufacturer at a single site.
     We also rely on third party contract manufacturers to tablet or capsulate products. For example, we use multiple third party
contract manufacturers to tablet Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera and Ranexa. Emtriva capsulation is also completed by third party contract manufacturers. We rely on a single third party supplier to tablet Emtriva and Letairis.      We also have manufacturing agreements with many of our corporate partners. Roche, by itself and through third parties, is responsible for
the manufacturing of Tamiflu. Under our agreement with Roche, through a joint manufacturing committee composed of representatives from Roche and us, we have the opportunity to review Roche s existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and
global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu. Astellas, our corporate partner for Lexiscan in America, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in United States and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical
ingredient of Lexiscan. PARI Pharma GmbH is responsible for the manufacturing of the device required to administer Cayston to the lungs of patients. This device is made by a single supplier at a single site.      At our San Dimas facility, we manufacture, fill and package products. We manufacture AmBisome and Cayston exclusively at this facility. We
depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in
        
   16   

Table of Contents  

the manufacture of AmBisome. We fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas under our manufacturing agreements with Eyetech and Pfizer. Eyetech currently provides us with
pegaptanib sodium, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Macugen. We also fill and package drug product for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva Hepsera and Ranexa in their finished forms at our facilities in San Dimas.      At our Edmonton, Alberta facility, we carry out process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, manufacture active
pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and conduct chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes. In addition, we utilize this site for the manufacture of emtricitabine.
We also manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Letairis and Hepsera exclusively at our Edmonton site, although another supplier is qualified to make the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis.      We fill and package drug product for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Cayston and Hepsera in their finished forms at our facilities in
Cork, Ireland. We also perform quality control testing, final labeling and packaging of AmBisome and distribution of many of our products for the European Union and elsewhere at this facility. We utilize our Cork, Ireland facility primarily for
solid dose tablet manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities.      The
manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to
the FDA s current Good Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our manufacturing
operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. Additionally, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are
out of our control. If we or any of our third party manufacturers or our corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical
trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.      We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third party contract
manufacturers, we have disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third party manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or
revealing this technology, but we cannot be certain that these third party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. In addition, these third party manufacturers could develop their own technology related to the work they perform for us
that we may need to manufacture our products. We could be required to enter into additional agreements with these third party manufacturers if we want to use that technology ourselves or allow another manufacturer to use that technology. The third
party manufacturer could refuse to allow us to use their technology or could demand terms to use their technology that are not acceptable to us.      We need access to certain supplies and products to manufacture our products. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason or if we are unable to purchase sufficient
quantities of raw materials used to manufacture our products, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our product candidates in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the
materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. For example, because we manufacture AmBisome and Cayston and fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas, California, in the event of a disaster,
including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture AmBisome, Cayston and Macugen to meet market needs. Problems with any of the
single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   For our future products, we will continue to consider developing additional manufacturing
capabilities and establishing additional third party suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to undertake clinical trials and to manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale.
If we are unable to develop manufacturing capabilities internally or contract for large scale manufacturing with third parties on acceptable terms for our future products, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer demand
for commercial products will be adversely affected.       Seasonal Operations and Backlog       Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality. However, our royalty revenues, which represented about 7%
of our total revenues in 2009 and consisted primarily of Tamiflu royalties, are affected by seasonality. Royalty revenue that we recognize from Roche s sales of Tamiflu can be impacted by the severity of flu seasons and product delivery in
response to the H1N1 influenza pandemic.      For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the
absence of significant backlogs. We do not believe that backlog information is material to our business as a whole.       Government Regulation
      Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States
and other countries. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling,
storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming.      The FDA must approve a drug before it can be sold in the United States. The general process for this approval is as follows:        Preclinical Testing        Before we can test a drug candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments and in animals to generate data to support the drug candidate s potential benefits and safety. We submit this data to the FDA in an
investigational new drug (IND) application seeking their approval to test the compound in humans.        Clinical Trials     
  If the FDA accepts the IND application, the drug candidate can then be studied in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate
is safe and effective. These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:       

Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for
safety, dose tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.          

Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best
dose of the drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 2 clinical trials.

Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those
results. Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted over a longer term,
           
   18   

Table of Contents  

involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety
and benefits of a drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 3 clinical trials.           FDA Approval Process        When we believe that the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials show an adequate level of safety and efficacy, we submit the appropriate filing, usually in the form of an NDA or supplemental NDA, with the FDA seeking approval to sell the
drug candidate for a particular use. The FDA may hold a public hearing where an independent advisory committee of expert advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This committee makes a recommendation
to the FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by the FDA. If the FDA agrees that the compound has met the required level of safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in the United States for
that use. It is not unusual, however, for the FDA to reject an application because it believes that the drug candidate is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable or conclusive.
     At any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate can be stopped for a number of reasons including safety
concerns and lack of treatment benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently conducting or any that we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within any specified time period. We may choose, or the FDA
may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that the patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.      The FDA may also require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further characterize safety and efficacy
during commercial use of our drug. The FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our
product candidates if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits of the drug. In addition, even if the FDA approves a drug, it could limit the uses of the drug. The FDA can withdraw approvals if it
does not believe that we are complying with regulatory standards or if problems are uncovered or occur after approval.      In
addition to obtaining FDA approval for each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the manufacturing facilities for any drug we sell, including those of companies who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections
by the FDA. The FDA must also approve foreign establishments that manufacture products to be sold in the United States and these facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California, including
our San Dimas facilities, also must be licensed by the State of California in compliance with local regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing facilities located in Canada, including our Edmonton, Alberta facility, and our facilities located near
Dublin and in Cork, Ireland, also must obtain local licenses and permits in compliance with local regulatory requirements.      Drugs that treat serious or life threatening diseases and conditions that are not adequately addressed by existing drugs and for which the development program is designed to address the unmet medical need may be designated as fast track
candidates by the FDA and may be eligible for accelerated and priority review. Drugs for the treatment of HIV infection that are designated for use under the U.S. President s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief may also qualify for an expedited or
priority review. Viread, Truvada and Atripla received accelerated approval and priority reviews. Drugs receiving accelerated approval must be monitored in post-marketing clinical trials in order to confirm the safety and benefits of the drug.
     Drugs are also subject to extensive regulation outside of the United States. In the European Union, there is a centralized
approval procedure that authorizes marketing of a product in all countries of the European Union (which includes most major countries in Europe). If this centralized approval procedure is not used, approval in
        
   19   

Table of Contents  

one country of the European Union can be used to obtain approval in another country of the European Union under one of two simplified application processes: the mutual recognition procedure or
the decentralized procedure, both of which rely on the principle of mutual recognition. After receiving regulatory approval through any of the European registration procedures, separate pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required in most
countries.        Pricing and Reimbursement        Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payer reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. Government
health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product
candidates, government authorities and third party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average
selling prices. For example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United
States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. These pressures
can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.   
  Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in
the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There have been significant changes to the federal Medicare system in recent years in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D. The prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we have benefited from patients transitioning from
Medicaid to Medicare Part D since 2006, the longer term impact of Medicare Part D on our business is not clear, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which
our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. Third party payers providing Medicare Part D coverage have attempted to negotiate price
concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical
manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare pricing. The increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients have to pay co-insurance, which may influence
which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. In addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. To the extent that private insurers or managed care
programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules.      Both President Obama s Administration and the United States Congress have made healthcare reform a top priority and have proposed reforms to extend coverage to millions of uninsured Americans and to
reduce the rate of growth in the costs of government-sponsored healthcare programs. Impending reform legislation in Congress may include reducing the coverage and reimbursement of our products and additional healthcare reform costs being borne by
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, which could have an adverse impact on our business.      In Europe, the
success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs
that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more.
        
   20   

Table of Contents  

Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals,
including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Recently,
many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of the global economic downturn. As new
drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the European countries. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. As a
result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth.      Government agencies also issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, from time to time, professional societies, practice management groups, private
health/science foundations and organizations publish guidelines or recommendations directed to certain health care and patient communities. Such recommendations and guidelines may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of
administration, and use of related or competing therapies and can consequently result in increased or decreased usage of our products.        Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws        We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health
care  fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the
referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities, it is possible that certain of our
practices may be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for
reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our sales and marketing activities may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If
the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.      On August 12, 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services requesting documents regarding the development, marketing and
sales of Ranexa. We have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry.        Compulsory Licenses
       In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that
pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own
versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing
compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active
pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority.
If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil.
        
   21   

Table of Contents  

   In 2009, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products.
For 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our HIV products by the Brazilian government will be at a similar level.      In
addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu and H1N1 influenza pandemic have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian
government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under Canada s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche
has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and
certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu,
those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries.
Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have
existing commercial sales.       Employees       As of January 31, 2010, we had approximately 3,852 full-time employees. We believe we have good relations with our employees.       Environment, Health and Safety       We seek to comply with all applicable
statutory and administrative requirements concerning environmental quality and worker health and safety. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection. Such expenditures have not had, and are not
expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.      We are
voluntarily assessing our greenhouse gas emissions, and have begun to take action to reduce such emissions, for example through establishing employee commuter programs and evaluating the energy efficiency of our buildings. Various laws and
regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the California Air Resources Board is in the process of drafting regulations to meet state
emissions targets. Based on current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. However, because we are not an energy
intensive business, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would likely to be material to our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.      We are also subject to other federal, state and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. We use
hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds in our R D activities and cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Certain misuse or accidents involving these materials could
lead to significant litigation, fines and penalties.       Other Information       We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other
information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an
electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

   The mailing address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California
94404, and our telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the  Investors  section of our website (under  SEC Filings  in the  Financial Information  section), we
make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge upon request.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS          In
evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business,
results of operations and financial condition. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not
consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face.        A substantial
portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our HIV products, particularly Truvada and Atripla. If we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of these products, our results of operations may be adversely affected.       We are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of HIV infection, particularly Truvada and Atripla, to support our
existing operations. Our HIV products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. Were the treatment paradigm for HIV to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to
fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our HIV product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (R D)
efforts. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Truvada and Atripla product sales together were $4.87 billion, or 69% of our total revenues. We may not be able to sustain the growth rate of sales of our HIV products, especially Truvada and
Atripla, for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following:       

As our HIV products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are
conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product,
each of which could reduce our revenues.          

As our HIV products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which
increases pressure on us to reduce prices.          

A large part of the market for our HIV products consists of patients who are already taking other HIV drugs. If we are not successful in encouraging
physicians to change patients  regimens to include our HIV products, the sales of our HIV products will be limited.          

As generic HIV products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected.
         A portion of our pre-tax income is derived from royalty revenue recognized from sales of Tamiflu by Roche. If sales of
Tamiflu were to decrease, our pre-tax income will be disproportionately and adversely affected.       F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
(together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu worldwide for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. We recognized $392.7 million in royalty revenue for the year ended
December 31, 2009 related to royalties received from sales
        
   23   

Table of Contents  

of Tamiflu by Roche. Although such royalty revenue represented approximately 6% of our total revenues in 2009, it represented 11% of our pre-tax income during the period. Roche s Tamiflu
sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. Sales of Tamiflu increased sharply in 2009 primarily as a result of pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. If sales of Tamiflu were to
decrease, our royalty revenues will decrease and our pre-tax income will decrease disproportionately. Any such decrease could be material and could adversely impact our operating results.       Our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers,
pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price.       In 2009, approximately 85% of our product sales in the United States were to three wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and
AmerisourceBergen Corp. The U.S. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand.
As a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. In addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and
other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. Adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their inventories of our products,
which would reduce their orders from wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers  orders from us, even if end user demand has not changed. For example, during the second quarter of 2009, the wholesalers increased their inventory levels for
Atripla and Truvada, while inventory levels for Viread decreased. In the third quarter of 2009, the wholesalers drew down on their inventory such that inventory levels for Atripla and Truvada at the end of the third quarter were more consistent with
the levels held during the first quarter of 2009. As inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see fluctuations in our earnings and a mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our
revenues.      In addition, the non-retail sector in the United States, which includes government institutions, including state
AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAP), correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror
the purchasing patterns that can be seen within the retail sector. For example, in the first quarter of 2008, we observed large non-retail purchases by a small number of state ADAPs that purchase centrally and have significant warehousing capacity.
We believe such purchases were driven by the grant cycle for federal ADAP funds rather than current patient demand, which tempered orders and our associated product sales, revenues and earnings in the second quarter of 2008 as these organizations
depleted their increased inventory levels established during the first quarter of 2008. We expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our product sales,
revenues and earnings in the future.      We estimate the future demand for our products, consider the shelf life of our inventory
and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. If actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our stock price.
      If we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues may be
adversely affected.       If we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing products, we will not
be able to increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our R D efforts. For example, in December 2009, we announced our Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension did not achieve
its co-primary efficacy endpoints and as a result of this outcome, we decided to discontinue the development of darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension.       
  
   24   

Table of Contents  

    Approximately 45% of our product sales occur outside the United States, and currency fluctuations and
hedging expenses may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.       Because a significant
percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative
value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increases. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore,
benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.      We use foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those
denominated in the Euro. We also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that
cash is collected or paid. We cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar appreciates significantly against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset
the effects of such appreciation, our results of operations will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.      Additionally, the expenses that we recognize in relation to our hedging activities can also cause our earnings to fluctuate. The level of hedging expenses that we recognize in a particular period is impacted by the changes in interest rate
spreads between the foreign currencies that we hedge and the U.S. dollar.       We face significant competition.       We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than
we do. In addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. Our HIV products compete primarily with products from the joint venture established by GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) and
Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with Truvada and Atripla. In May 2010, the compound patent covering Epivir (lamivudine) itself will expire. Lamivudine, marketed by the joint venture established by GSK
and Pfizer, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Emtriva and a component of both Truvada and Atripla. Certain third party payors or plans may use the entry of generic lamivudine as a reason to exert pricing
pressure on our HIV products.      For Hepsera and Viread for treatment of chronic hepatitis B, we compete primarily with products
produced by GSK, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) and Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) in the United States, the European Union and China. For AmBisome, we compete primarily with products produced by Merck   Co., Inc.
(Merck) and Pfizer. In addition, we are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These
formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. Furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by
association. Letairis competes directly with Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with PAH products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer. Ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct
classes of drugs, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates for the treatment of chronic angina in the United States. Cayston competes with a product marketed by Novartis. Tamiflu competes with products sold by GSK and generic
competitors.      In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our
existing products or research programs. These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical
        
   25   

Table of Contents  

companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative
arrangements for competitive products or programs.       If significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates,
our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations.       The data supporting the marketing
approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. As our products are used over longer periods
of time by many patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or
contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products.      Our product Letairis, which was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) which pose specific
risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. Because of these risks, Letairis is available only through the Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients
learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. As the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with Letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program
and additional restrictions on the use of Letairis which may decrease demand for the product. For example, since the launch of Letairis, cases of edema in certain patients taking Letairis have been reported. This information has recently been added
to the product label, which may negatively impact demand for the product.      If serious safety, resistance or drug interaction
issues arise with our marketed products, including Letairis, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected.       Our operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to
maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products.       The products we develop must be approved for
marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. We are continuing clinical trials for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva,
AmBisome, Letairis, Ranexa and Cayston for currently approved and additional uses. We anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. These products
may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a timely basis, or at all.      Further, our marketed products and how we
manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our
products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products
and criminal prosecution.      On September 27, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Food and Drug Administration
Amendments Act of 2007, which significantly expanded the FDA s authority, including, among other things, to:       

require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify
an unexpected serious risk;            
   26   

Table of Contents  

mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product s lifecycle, based on new safety information; and          

require sponsors to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a
communication plan to healthcare providers or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product.         Failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the FDA, could result in significant civil monetary penalties
and our operating results may be adversely affected.       The results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may
not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth.       We are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. The results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always
accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. Even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical
trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. For example, in
December 2009, we announced our Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension did not achieve its co-primary efficacy endpoints and as a result of this outcome, we decided to discontinue the development of
darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension. In addition, we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. If the clinical trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for
future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. For example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel HIV integrase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV infection; the fixed-dose
regimen of Truvada and TMC278 for the treatment of HIV infection; and ambrisentan for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), each currently in Phase 3 clinical trials that could prevent completion of development of these product
candidates. These risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing
to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we
believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If these programs and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely
impacted. In addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business.       Due to our reliance on third party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct,
expense and quality of our clinical trials.       We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform
only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on independent third party contract research organizations (CROs), to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and
preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. Many important aspects of the services performed for us by the CROs are out of our direct control. If there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with
our CROs, our clinical trials may be delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third party CROs. If any of our CROs  processes, methodologies or results were
determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and potential future health care
reforms.       Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur
relatively frequently in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There have been significant changes to the federal Medicare system in recent years in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the Medicare
Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D. The prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we have benefited
from patients transitioning from Medicaid to Medicare Part D since 2006, the longer term impact of Medicare Part D on our business is not clear, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for
the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. Third party payers providing Medicare Part D coverage have
attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price
concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare pricing. The increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients have to pay
co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. In addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. To the extent that
private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules.      Both President Obama s Administration and the United States Congress have made healthcare reform a top priority and have proposed
reforms to extend coverage to millions of uninsured Americans and to reduce the rate of growth in the costs of government-sponsored healthcare programs. Impending reform legislation in Congress may include reducing the coverage and reimbursement of
our products and additional healthcare reform costs being borne by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, which could have an adverse impact on our business.       We depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. Failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these
companies could negatively impact our business.       We rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major
pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. These include collaborations with BMS for Atripla in the United States, Europe and Canada; Roche for Tamiflu; and GSK for ambrisentan in territories outside of
the United States. In some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva and AmBisome. Some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. Reliance on
collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the risk that:       

we are unable to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products;          

disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners;          

disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product
candidates or result in litigation or arbitration;          

contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails
to perform;          

our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative
technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors;            
   28   

Table of Contents  

our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products
than they do to products of their own development; and          

our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions.
        Given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future
collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline.      Under our April 2002 licensing agreement with GSK, we gave GSK the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of Hepsera in territories in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
These include major markets for Hepsera, such as China, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. In November 2009, we entered into an agreement with GSK that provided GSK with exclusive commercialization rights and registration responsibilities for Viread for
the treatment of chronic HBV in China. The success of Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic HBV in these territories depends almost entirely on the efforts of GSK. In this regard, GSK promotes Epivir-HBV/Zeffix, a product that competes
with Hepsera. Consequently, GSK s marketing strategy for Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic HBV may be influenced by its promotion of Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. We receive royalties from GSK equal to a percentage of GSK s net sales of
Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic HBV as well as net sales of GSK s Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. If GSK fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing Hepsera or Viread for the treatment of
chronic HBV in its territories, our potential revenues in these territories may be substantially reduced.      In addition,
Cayston and Letairis are distributed through third party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and
ongoing counseling. The use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that
these specialty pharmacies will:       

not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints;          

not effectively sell or support Cayston or Letairis;          

not devote the resources necessary to sell Cayston or Letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;      

not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or          

cease operations.         We also rely on a third party to administer LEAP, the restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. This third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of
Letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for Letairis by the FDA and coordinates and controls dispensing to
patients through the third party specialty pharmacies. Failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute Letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the FDA or decreased Letairis sales, either
of which would harm our business.      Further, Cayston may only be taken by patients using a specific inhalation device that
delivers the drug to the lungs of patients. Our commercial launch of Cayston and ongoing distribution of Cayston are entirely reliant upon the manufacturer of that device. For example, the manufacturer could encounter other issues with
regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device at the time of commercial launch or following a commercial launch. In addition, the manufacturer may not be able to provide
        
   29   

Table of Contents  

adequate warranty support for the device after it has been distributed to patients. With respect to distribution of the drug and device to patients, we are reliant on the capabilities of
specialty pharmacies. For example, the distribution channel for drug and device is complicated and requires coordination. The reimbursement approval processes associated with both drug and device are similarly complex. If the device
manufacturer is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales of Cayston may be adversely affected. Any of the previously described issues may limit or further delay the commercial launch of
Cayston, which would adversely affect our financial results.       Our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies
and other third parties. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability.       Successful
commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payer reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers
and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third party payers are
increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. For example, a significant portion of our sales
of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement
controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care
groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.      In Europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and
maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay
commercialization by 12 months or more. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including
through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Recently, many
countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of the global economic downturn. As new
drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the European countries. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. As a
result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth.       Expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.       The clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. It is difficult to accurately predict or
control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter, and the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies may require more clinical testing than we originally anticipated. Uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our
operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

    Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other
intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. We may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use
of required technology.       Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. Our success will depend
to a significant degree on our ability to:       

obtain patents and licenses to patent rights;          

preserve trade secrets; and          

operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others.         If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create
competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and
file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology.      We
have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending
patent applications will result in issued patents. Patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued. As a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending
applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or
compete with our patents. In addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings
are expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events.      From time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of
our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to
initiate the re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.      Although we were
successful in responding to the PTO office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the U.S. patent
re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the
Brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the
questions raised in the rejection. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian
federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the
patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil. As another example, the Patent Office of India initially
allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. However, under Indian civil procedure, prior to the official grant of the allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant
the patents. In August 2009, the Indian Patent Office announced that it had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. We have filed an
        
   31   

Table of Contents  

appeal within the Indian Patent Office on both of these applications. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. If we are unable to successfully appeal these decisions, any further
appeals will have to be pursued in the Indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in India. In addition, if we are unable to successfully appeal
any further negative decisions by the Indian Patent Office in the Indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the amount of royalties we receive from our Indian generic
licenses.      In 2009, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. For 2010, we anticipate
that purchases of our HIV products by the Brazilian government will be at a similar level.      Patents do not cover ranolazine,
the active ingredient of Ranexa. Instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they
achieve. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China or certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. Asia is a major market
for therapies for hepatitis B, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed.      We may obtain patents for certain
products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited.
However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions.      As part of the approval process of some of our products, the FDA
granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been
granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. It
is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), which is the application form typically used by manufacturers
seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. For example, in November 2008, we received
notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not
be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA
to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the notice, Teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine
patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the
notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir patents protecting Viread. In January 2010, we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Truvada and Atripla. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to
tenofovir and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. In the notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. We expect to
file a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. BMS and Merck have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these
actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Truvada, Atripla and
Viread in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve Teva s request to manufacture a generic version of such products.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

    Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other
proprietary rights of third parties.       In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two
emtricitabine patents.      If we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be
required to obtain licenses from these third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to
develop or commercialize some or all of our products. For example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of LEAP, our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. In addition, Actelion, which markets
Tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a method of use for ERAs for the treatment of IPF. If issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own ERA, ambrisentan, for the treatment of IPF.      Furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain
aspects of our production and other technologies. Our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors.       Manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations.       We depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. In addition, Roche, either by itself or through third parties,
is responsible for manufacturing Tamiflu. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third party
manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to the FDA s current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar
regulations are in effect in other countries. Our manufacturing operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. Additionally, these third party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject
to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of these third party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely
basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.
      Our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize Cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility.
      Aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Cayston, is a mono-bactam Gram-negative antibiotic that we manufacture,
by ourselves or through third parties, in multi-product manufacturing facilities. Historically, the FDA has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the FDA will
continue to allow this practice. We do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of Cayston nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for Cayston. If the FDA prohibits the
manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial
supplies of Cayston and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product.       We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies
necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues.       We need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to manufacture our products. In light of the economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used
        
   33   

Table of Contents  

in our manufacturing process. If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these materials or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our
product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues.      Suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an NDA filed with the FDA for any product candidate for which we are seeking FDA approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification
of a new supplier is required. Even after a manufacturer is qualified by the FDA, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with GMP. Manufacturers are
subject to regular, periodic inspections by the FDA following initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and
conditions of product approval, the FDA may suspend the manufacturing operations. If the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or
clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. In addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our
products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. For example, we manufacture AmBisome
and Cayston and fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas, California. In the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a
timely manner and may be unable to manufacture AmBisome, Cayston and Macugen to meet market needs.      Cayston is dependent on
three different third party single-source suppliers. First, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. Second, it is administered to the lungs of
patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. Third, the diluent for Cayston is manufactured by a single manufacturer at a single site. Disruptions or delays with any of these single suppliers could adversely affect
our ability to produce Cayston in adequate quantities to support our commercial launch of Cayston, and we cannot be sure that alternative suppliers can be identified in a timely manner, or at all.      In addition, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We also depend on
single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Vistide, Ranexa and Cayston and for the tableting of Emtiva and Letairis. Astellas US LLC, which markets Lexiscan in the United States, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and
supply of product in United States and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Lexiscan. Problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization
efforts.       We face credit risks from our European customers that may adversely affect our results of operations.       Our European product sales to government-owned or supported customers in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain are subject to significant payment
delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. This has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. Our accounts
receivable in these countries totaled approximately $753.6 million as of December 31, 2009, of which $289.4 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual payment terms. Historically, receivables balances with certain government
owned hospitals accumulated over a period of time and were then subsequently settled as large lump sum payments. If significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these European governments or if government funding becomes
unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, at December 31, 2009, we had $100.8 million due from publicly-owned hospitals in
Greece. In the event that the Greek government defaulted on its debt, we may be unable to collect some or all of these amounts due.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

    Our product revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are
available at lower prices.       Prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes
differ from country to country. Our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. There have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were
sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to European countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. If this happens with our products, particularly Truvada and Viread, which we have agreed to make
available at substantially reduced prices to 130 countries participating in our Gilead Access Program, or Atripla, which Merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries under our August 2006
agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. In addition, we have established partnerships with thirteen Indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing
world countries, including India. If generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the United States, Europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected.      In addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling
prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For example, in the European Union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in
another country. Purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and can cause the relative
sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and not reflect the actual consumer demand in any given quarter. These quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price and harm
our business.       In some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our
products.       In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that
pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own
versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing
compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active
pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority.
If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil.
In 2009, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. For 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our HIV products by the Brazilian government will be at a similar level.      In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic and H1N1 influenza have generated
international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible
developing and least developed countries under Canada s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai
Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu
patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of
        
   35   

Table of Contents  

our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could
significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales.       We may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our
earnings.       The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in
development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. In recent years, coverage and availability of cost-effective product
liability insurance has decreased. In addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition
and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and to market our products will be adversely impacted. In addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products
and impair our financial condition.       Our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially impact our
business.       We continually evaluate our levels of self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors,
severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. However, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other
expenses.       Expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings.       In November 2008, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version
of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed
a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the notice, Teva
challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we
received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir patents protecting Viread. In January 2010, we also received
notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Truvada and Atripla. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. In the notice related to Atripla, Teva
challenged four patents related to tenofovir, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. We expect to file a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine
patents. BMS and Merck have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these
lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Truvada, Atripla and Viread in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those
products are invalidated, the FDA could approve Teva s request to manufacture a generic version of such products.      In
addition, we, along with certain of our officers and a former officer, were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws. Further, in August 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services requesting documents regarding the development, marketing and sales of Ranexa. We have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry.
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

   The outcome of the lawsuits above, any other lawsuits that may be brought against us, the
investigation or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could
significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business.       Changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our
earnings.       Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. These factors include, but are
not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R D spending, changes in accounting standards,
changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from
the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income.      Our income tax returns are
audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of
tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. Resolution of one or more of
these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.       Changes in accounting
rules or policies may affect our financial position and results of operations.       U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to
changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations.       If we fail to attract and retain
highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates.       Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical
testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for qualified personnel
in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and
retention efforts, our business may be harmed.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not applicable.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our corporate
headquarters, including our principal offices and some of our commercial, administrative, research and development (R D) facilities, are located in Foster City, California, where we own 18 buildings.      We lease facilities in Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California, to house some of our manufacturing, warehousing and R D
activities. In addition, we also lease facilities in Durham, North Carolina; Boulder and Westminster, Colorado; and Seattle, Washington to house some of our administrative and R D activities.      Our international headquarters, which include some of our commercial, medical and administrative facilities, are located and leased in the
London area in the United Kingdom.      We utilize our manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, primarily for solid dose tablet
manufacturing of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities. We also lease and own facilities in the Dublin area of Ireland to house distribution activities.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   We also own a manufacturing facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, that we primarily use to
conduct process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, the manufacturing of our active pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and our chemical development activities to improve existing
commercial manufacturing processes.      We have leased additional facilities to house our commercial, medical and administrative
activities in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom.      We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased sites, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our
business. We believe our capital resources are sufficient to purchase, lease or construct any additional facilities required to meet our expected long-term growth needs.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         In
November 2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with
emtricitabine, owned by Emory University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in New York against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the
notice, Teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit
filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir patents protecting
Viread. In January 2010, we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Truvada and Atripla. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir and two additional patents related to emtricitabine.
In the notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. We expect to file a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread
patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. BMS and Merck have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these
patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Truvada, Atripla and Viread in the United States could be substantially shortened.
Further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve Teva s request to manufacture a generic version of such products.      Information pertaining to certain of our other legal proceedings can be found under the heading  Legal Proceedings  in Item 8, Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference herein.       

ITEM 4.   
   RESERVED            
   38   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol  GILD . The following table sets forth the high and
low intra-day sale prices per share of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market for the periods indicated. These prices represent quotations among dealers without adjustments for retail mark-ups, markdowns or commissions and may not
represent prices of actual transactions.       
    As of
February 19, 2010, we had 903,378,986 shares of common stock outstanding held by approximately 479 stockholders of record.      We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We currently expect to retain earnings primarily for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in
the near future. In an effort to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, our Board of Directors (Board) authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $3.00 billion
through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means. As of December 31, 2009, we completed share repurchases under this program. In January 2010, our Board authorized a
new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock
repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This repurchase plan expires in January 2011. See Item 8, Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding our stock
repurchase program.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Graph  (1)           The following graph compares our total stockholder returns for the past five years to two indices: the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, labeled S P500 Index; and the Nasdaq
Biotechnology Index, labeled NBI Index. The total return for each index assumes the reinvestment of all dividends, if any, paid by companies included in these indices and are calculated as of December 31 of each year.      We are a composite member of each of the S P500 Index and the NBI Index, and we intend to use these indices as
comparators for our stock performance for the purposes of the following graph going forward. As a composite member of the S P500 Index, we are required under applicable regulations to use this index as a
comparator, and we believe the NBI Index is a relevant comparator since it is composed of peer companies in lines-of-business similar to ours.      The stockholder return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns.       Comparison of Cumulative Total Return on Investment for the Past Five Years  (2)        

(1)  
  This section is not  soliciting material,  is not deemed  filed  with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under
the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.         
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       In October 2007, our Board authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount up to $3.00 billion through
open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated share repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, we completed share
repurchases under this program. In January 2010, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or
privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This repurchase plan expires in January 2011.      The table below summarizes our stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2009 (in thousands, except per share amounts):       

(1)  
  The difference between the total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs is due to shares of common
stock withheld by us from employee restricted stock awards in order to satisfy our applicable tax withholding obligations.           
   41   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA        (in thousands, except per share data)        
        (1)       

During 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the assets of Navitas Assets, LLC related to its cicletanine business for an aggregate purchase
price of $10.9 million which was allocated to purchased in-process research and development (IPR D).          

During 2006, we completed the acquisition of Myogen, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $2.42 billion, of which $2.06 billion was allocated
to purchased IPR D, $180.8 million was allocated to deferred tax assets primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations, $70.9 million was allocated to goodwill and $110.0 million was
allocated to net tangible assets. In 2006, we also acquired the net assets of Corus Pharma, Inc. for $415.5 million, of which $335.6 million was allocated to purchased IPR D, $71.2 million was allocated to net
           
   42   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (Continued)          

deferred tax assets primarily related to federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain state amortizations, $7.2 million was allocated to net tangible assets and $1.6
million was allocated to assembled workforce.         (2)       

During 2005, we recognized $80.7 million in royalty revenue relating to the resolution of our dispute with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.). We also recorded a tax provision benefit of $25.1 million related to our repatriation of qualified foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA).         (3)       

We adopted guidance for measuring and recognizing share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options beginning on
January 1, 2006. See Notes 1 and 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.          

On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for our convertible senior notes on a retrospective basis. The guidance required us to bifurcate the
conversion option from the debt instrument by classifying the conversion option in equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. See Item 8, Note 1 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.          

On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for our joint ventures with BMS on a retrospective basis. As a result of adopting this guidance, we
presented the noncontrolling interest on our Consolidated Statements of Income as net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, a component of consolidated net income, on a retrospective basis. See Item 8, Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         (4)       

During 2009, we completed the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, Inc. We recognized consideration transferred of $1.39 billion which was primarily
recorded in intangible assets. See Item 8, Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         (5)       

During 2006, we issued $1.30 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes in a private placement.          

During 2005, we entered into an uncollateralized $300.0 million term loan agreement to facilitate a cash dividend distribution as part of the
repatriation of our qualified foreign earnings under the provisions of the AJCA.            
   43   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) is intended to help the
reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. MD A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and other disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors ). Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles and are presented in U.S. dollars.       Management Overview       We are a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet
medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America, Europe and Australia. We market products in the HIV/AIDS,
liver diseases, respiratory and cardiovascular/metabolic therapeutic areas. Our products comprise Truvada     
(emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), Atripla      (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Viread      (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva      (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; Hepsera      (adefovir dipivoxil) and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B; AmBisome      (amphotericin B liposome for injection) for the treatment of severe fungal infections; Letairis      (ambrisentan) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); Ranexa      (ranolazine) for the treatment of chronic angina; Vistide      (cidofovir injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection and Cayston      (aztreonam for inhalation solution) as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  ( P.
aeruginosa ). F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu     
(oseltamivir phosphate) for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. Eyetech Inc. markets Macugen      (pegaptanib sodium injection) in the United States and Europe for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration under a royalty-paying collaborative
agreement with us. GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) markets Volibris  (ambrisentan) outside of the United States for the treatment of PAH under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA markets
Ranexa outside of the United States under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. Astellas US LLC markets Lexiscan      (regadenoson) injection in the United States for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) under a royalty-paying
collaborative agreement with us.       Business Highlights       During 2009, we grew our business significantly and achieved record total revenues of $7.01 billion while strengthening our product portfolio and pipeline programs.      Our commercial achievements for 2009 comprised the continued rollout of Atripla in the European Union including the launch of Atripla in
France, the growth of Atripla and Truvada product sales in the United States and Canada, making gains in the PAH market with Letairis, as well as continuing the expansion of our sales and marketing infrastructure.      We grew our product sales significantly and continued to strengthen our worldwide organization and infrastructure to support our expanded
international footprint and business activities. In addition, we added Ranexa to our product portfolio through the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics) in April 2009. In February 2010, we received marketing approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Cayston as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in CF patients with  P. aeruginosa . Cayston was conditionally approved in Europe and Canada in September 2009. Cayston is delivered via a specific
inhalation device developed by PARI Pharma GmbH.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

   We also made significant advances on the compounds and product candidates in our research
and development (R D) pipeline, including:       

In the HIV area, in January 2010, we announced that both of the Phase 2 clinical studies of cobicistat (formerly GS 9350), our pharmacoenhancer that is
in development as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines, and a complete single-tablet fixed-dose regimen containing elvitegravir, cobicistat and Truvada in treatment-na ve patients met their primary objectives of non-inferiority. Pending
discussion with the FDA, we expect to initiate three Phase 3 studies before the middle of 2010: two studies for the single-tablet fixed-dose regimen mentioned above and one study for cobicistat. In December 2009, we completed enrollment in the Phase
3 study evaluating elvitegravir in treatment-experienced patients. In addition, in collaboration with Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec), we are developing a new once-daily fixed-dose combination containing our Truvada and Tibotec s
investigational non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, TMC278 (25 mg rilpivirine hydrochloride), which is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. Subject to positive outcome of this study, we intend to submit marketing applications for the
fixed-dose combination of Truvada and TMC278 in the United States and Europe during the second half of 2010.          

In the liver disease area, we completed the Phase 2a studies of GS 9450, the caspase inhibitor we licensed from LG Life Sciences, Ltd. in 2007,
that is in development for the treatment of hepatitis C and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and expect to present the results in the second quarter of 2010. We are continuing the Phase 2b study of GS 9450 for the treatment of hepatitis C. We are also
continuing our Phase 2 study of GS 9190, a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C infection, and expect to complete the study in the second half of 2010.          

In the cardiovascular and metabolic areas, we expanded our product candidate portfolio through the acquisition of CV Therapeutics. We anticipate
commencing patient enrollment in a Phase 2 study of ranolazine for the treatment of diastolic heart failure in patients with preserved ejection fraction in the second quarter of 2010. We are continuing our Phase 3 study of ambrisentan in patients
with pulmonary hypertension secondary to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). We are also collaborating with GSK to develop a clinical trial to study combination therapy versus monotherapy in a first-line treatment setting for PAH. The study,
AMBITION, will evaluate first-line combination use with ambrisentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA), and tadalafil, a PDE5 inhibitor, in patients with PAH. We are continuing our Phase 2 study of cicletanine hydrochloride, an oral agent in
development for the treatment of PAH. We announced plans to terminate development of darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension after our second Phase 3 study of the compound failed to meet its co-primary efficacy endpoints. In May 2009,
we announced that our marketing authorization application for regadenoson, an investigational pharmacologic stress agent for radionuclide MPI, was validated by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA). Following validation of the marketing authorization
application, the dossier is distributed to members of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) for formal review to determine whether regadenoson is a safe and efficacious pharmacologic stress agent in humans.

In the respiratory area, we are continuing the Phase 3 study of ambrisentan for the treatment of IPF and anticipate completing enrollment of patients
in this study by the end of 2010. We are continuing the Phase 2 study of GS 9310/11, an inhaled co-formulation of fosfomycin and tobramycin, for the treatment of bacterial infections associated with CF, the Phase 2 study of aztreonam for inhalation
solution for the treatment of bronchiectasis and the Phase 1 study of GS 9411, an oral epithelial sodium channel blocker designed to increase airway hydration for the treatment of pulmonary disease.          Acquisition of CV Therapeutics and Restructuring       In April 2009, we completed the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Palo Alto, California, primarily focused on the discovery, development and
commercialization of small molecule drugs for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases. CV Therapeutics
        
   45   

Table of Contents  

had two marketed products as well as several product candidates in clinical development for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases. We believe the acquisition will
provide us with an opportunity to further expand into the cardiovascular therapeutic area.      We adopted the new business
combinations guidance for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree and applied it to the CV Therapeutics acquisition. As a result, we recognized consideration transferred of
$1.39 billion and recorded $951.2 million and $138.9 million in intangible assets relating to marketed products and in-process research and development (IPR D) projects, respectively, which constituted a significant portion of the assets
acquired from CV Therapeutics. The results of operations of CV Therapeutics beginning on April 15, 2009, the acquisition date, were included in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2009.      During the second quarter of 2009, we approved a plan to realize certain synergies between CV Therapeutics and us, re-align our
cardiovascular operations and eliminate certain redundancies. The restructuring plan included consolidation and re-alignment of the cardiovascular R D organization, our exit from certain facilities and the termination of certain contractual
obligations. As a result of this restructuring plan, we recorded $26.2 million and $25.7 million in selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses and R D expenses, respectively, in 2009, primarily related to employee severance,
relocation and termination benefits, lease termination costs and other facilities-related expenses. We expect to incur an additional $20.2 million in 2010 bringing the total amount to be incurred in connection with the significant activities of our
restructuring plan to be approximately $38.8 million for employee severance, relocation and termination benefits and $33.3 million for facilities-related expenses.       Financial Highlights       Our operating results for the year were led by total
product sales of $6.47 billion. Antiviral product sales (Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera and Emtriva) increased 25% to $5.84 billion in 2009 from $4.67 billion in 2008, and were the key drivers for total product sales growth of 27% for 2009 as
compared to 2008. With the continued uptake of Atripla in the United States and Europe, Atripla contributed $2.38 billion, or 41%, to our total 2009 antiviral product sales. The growth of Atripla product sales and its increased proportion to overall
product sales caused total product gross margin to decrease to 75% in 2009 from 78% in 2008, due primarily to the efavirenz component of Atripla sales at zero gross margin. Truvada product sales for 2009 comprised $2.49 billion, or 43% of our total
2009 antiviral product sales. Truvada product sales for 2009 increased 18% from 2008 primarily due to continued sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. Foreign currency fluctuations in 2009 had an unfavorable impact of approximately
$98.5 million on total revenues and $33.6 million on pre-tax income when compared to 2008.      Royalty revenues that we
recognized from our collaborations with corporate partners were $491.8 million in 2009, an increase of 125% from royalty revenues of $218.2 million in 2008. The increase in royalty revenues was due primarily to increased Tamiflu sales by Roche
related to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide.      Operating expenses increased $825.0 million in 2009, or 31%, compared to
2008, reflecting the increased research and clinical study activity in our development pipeline, our expanded commercial activities worldwide, as well as the higher headcount, infrastructure and technology-related costs required to support the
continued growth of our business.      Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased by $665.2 million during the
year, driven primarily by our operating cash flows of $3.08 billion partially offset by cash used to acquire CV Therapeutics of $1.13 billion, net of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities acquired from CV Therapeutics of $245.4 million,
and $998.5 million used to repurchase approximately 21.8 million shares of our common stock through open market purchases under the now completed $3.00 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors (Board) in October
2007.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

    2010 Outlook       Our operating objectives for 2010 include increasing the market share of our commercial products, continuing to strengthen our pipeline with internally developed and/or externally in-licensed or purchased
opportunities and strengthening our key alliances.      From a commercial standpoint, we have a number of internal and external
initiatives intended to promote the continued growth of our franchises. In the HIV area, we expect a favorable impact from our updated Atripla label that includes data from Study 073 supporting switching patients from other HIV regimens to Atripla,
revised U.S. Department of Health and Human Services treatment guidelines that recommend earlier treatment for patients with HIV and the extension of the Ryan White Treatment Act which should provide stable funding for AIDS Drug Assistance Programs
in the United States through 2013. In the hepatitis B virus (HBV) area, we will continue to support educational and promotional activities focused on Asian communities, highlighting the need to screen, diagnose and link patients to care. As part of
those efforts, we will have a larger hepatitis B field team in 2010 in the United States. In the cardiovascular area, we will continue in our efforts to raise awareness of Gilead in the PAH and cardiology communities and believe this will help grow
revenues of Letairis and Ranexa in 2010.      We are mindful that conditions in our current macroeconomic environment could affect
our ability to achieve our goals. Some of the factors that could affect our business include: the potential healthcare reform in the United States, continued government pricing pressures internationally and the potential volatility in foreign
currency exchange rates. We will continue to monitor these factors and will adjust our business processes to mitigate these risks to our business.      The successes we experienced in 2009 have helped us maintain and build a financially sound business model that we believe will allow us to continue to further expand our commercial, collaborative and
R D activities and to maintain quality and compliance. As we continue to grow our business and achieve greater operational leverage, we remain focused on profitable revenue growth and prudent expense management that we believe will enable solid
execution of our operating objectives for 2010.       Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments       The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which
have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts, prepaid royalties, clinical trial accruals, our tax provision and
stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.      We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
Consolidated Financial Statements.       Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenues from product sales when there is
persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. We record estimated reductions to revenues for government rebates such as Medicaid
reimbursements, customer
        
   47   

Table of Contents  

incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and expected returns of expired products. These estimates are deducted from gross product sales at the time such revenues
are recognized. Of these reductions from gross product sales, government rebates significantly impact our reported net product sales and are based upon certain estimates that require complex and significant judgment by management.       Government Rebates       We estimate reductions to our revenues for government-managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs for the reimbursement of portions of the retail price of prescriptions
filled that are covered by these programs. These reductions are settled either by the company being invoiced directly or through charge-backs from our wholesalers. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us are recorded in other accrued
liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers at a lower contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and
the lower contractual government price, which we record as allowances against accounts receivable. Although we may pay rebates in countries outside of the United States, to date, payments made to foreign governments have not represented a
significant portion of our total government rebates. For government programs in the United States, we estimate these sales allowances based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates, new information regarding changes in these programs 
regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and channel inventory data obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our
inventory management agreements. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, U.S government rebates of $885.5 million, $625.0 million and $423.3 million, respectively, representing 12%, 10% and 10% of total gross product sales, respectively, were deducted from
gross product sales. We believe that the methodology that we use to estimate our sales allowances for government price reductions is reasonable and appropriate given the current facts and circumstances. However, actual results may differ. Based on
the current information available to us, actual government rebates claimed for these periods have varied by less than 3% from our estimates recorded in those periods. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had accrued U.S. government rebates of
$242.9 million and $173.4 million, respectively, in other accrued liabilities and an allowance of $41.8 million and $32.8 million, respectively, recorded against accounts receivable.      The following table summarizes the aggregate activity in our U.S. government rebates allowance and accrued liabilities accounts:   
   
     Intangible Assets       In conjunction with business combinations that we have completed, we have recorded intangible assets primarily related to marketed products,
IPR D projects and goodwill as part of our recognition and measurement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets, such as those
        
   48   

Table of Contents  

related to marketed products or IPR D projects, are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. We believe the fair values assigned to our acquired intangible assets
are based on reasonable estimates and assumptions given the available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition dates. Discounted cash flow models are used in valuing these intangible assets, and these models require the use of significant
estimates and assumptions including but not limited to:       

estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the products or product candidates;          

the probability of success for unapproved product candidates considering their stages of development;          

the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of product candidates;          

the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a product
candidate such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and          

risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.         Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in
a business combination. Goodwill and intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for
impairment on an annual basis and in between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying amounts. As of December 31,
2009, we had $601.5 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets consisting of $462.6 million of goodwill resulting from various business combinations and $138.9 million of intangible assets related to the IPR D projects that we acquired from
CV Therapeutics.      Of the $138.9 million of IPR D intangible assets that we acquired from CV Therapeutics, $93.4 million
related to GS 9667 (formerly CVT-3619), a product candidate in Phase 1 clinical studies for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia. The remaining balance of the intangible assets related to the IPR D projects represented various other in-process
projects with no single project comprising a significant portion of the total value. The estimated fair value of the IPR D intangible assets acquired from CV Therapeutics was determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future
cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value of these intangible assets using a present value discount rate of 9%, which is based on the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with profiles substantially similar to that
of CV Therapeutics. This is comparable to the estimated internal rate of return for CV Therapeutics  operations and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the intangible assets. We compensated for the differing phases
of development of each project by probability-adjusting our estimation of the expected future cash flows associated with each project. We then determined the present value of the expected future cash flows using the discount rate of 9%. The
projected cash flows from the IPR D projects were based on various estimates and assumptions including those noted above.      Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We are amortizing
the intangible asset related to the Ranexa product, which we acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life using an amortization rate derived from our forecasted future product sales for Ranexa. Our product sales forecasts are
prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon considering such factors as historical and expected future patient usage or uptake of our products, the introduction of complimentary or combination therapies or
products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, we will prospectively update the rate used to amortize our intangible asset related to Ranexa which may increase future
cost of goods sold, as that is where we record the amortization expense. We are amortizing the intangible asset related to the Lexiscan product, which we also acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life to cost of goods sold on a
        
   49   

Table of Contents  

straight-line basis. Given that current Lexiscan revenues consist of royalties received from a collaboration partner and we will have limited ongoing access and visibility into that
partner s future sales forecasts, we cannot make a reasonable estimate of the amortization rate utilizing a forecasted product sales approach. As of December 31, 2009, we had $923.3 million of net unamortized finite-lived intangible assets
consisting primarily of intangible assets related to the marketed products that we acquired from CV Therapeutics.      Our
judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on our historical and projected future operating results, our extent or manner of use of the acquired assets, legal and regulatory factors and events, our overall business strategy
and market and economic trends. If events occur in the future that cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that certain intangible assets are impaired, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
      Allowance for Doubtful Accounts       We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on our analysis of several factors
including, but not limited to, contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by customer and geographic region and a review of the local economic
environment and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. If the financial condition of our customers or the economic environment in which they operate were to deteriorate, resulting in an inability to make payments,
additional allowances may be required. Our allowance for doubtful accounts balance as a percentage of total accounts receivable did not materially change from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. We believe that the allowance for
doubtful accounts is adequate to cover anticipated losses under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the above factors, especially with respect to the government funding and reimbursement practices in the European market
could materially change these expectations and may result in an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.       Prepaid Royalties  
     We capitalize royalties that we have prepaid at cost, specifically those related to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to
Emory University (Emory) for the HIV indication, based on the present value of the future royalty obligation that we would expect to pay to Emory assuming certain expected future levels of our product sales incorporating emtricitabine. The present
value of our future royalty obligation was derived using our weighted-average cost of capital. We review periodically the expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down in the net recoverable value of
our asset or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. Some potential indicators of impairment include the launch of a significant product by a competitor, significant deviations in recognized product sales compared to forecast and
product safety issues and recalls.      We amortize our prepaid royalties based on an effective royalty rate that we derive from
forecasted future HIV product sales incorporating emtricitabine. Our product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon considering such factors as historical and expected future patient
usage or uptake of our products, the introduction of complimentary or combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, including the introduction
of a competing product by us or one of our competitors in the same HIV market as emtricitabine, we will prospectively update the royalty rate used to amortize our prepaid royalties which may increase future cost of goods sold, as that is where we
record the amortization expense. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had a prepaid royalty asset relating to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory of $245.0 million and $275.0 million, respectively. Amortization expense relating to this
prepaid royalty asset was $29.9 million, $31.8 million and $14.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Clinical Trial Accruals       We record accruals for estimated clinical study costs. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third party contract research organizations (CROs). These costs are a significant component of R D
expenses. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we incurred CRO costs of $109.9 million, $111.8 million and $65.6 million, respectively. We accrue costs for clinical studies performed by CROs over the service periods specified in the contracts and adjust our
estimates, if required, based upon our ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the CROs. We validate our accruals quarterly with our vendors and perform detailed reviews of the activities related to our significant
contracts. Based upon the results of these validation processes, we assess the appropriateness of our accruals and make any adjustments we deem necessary to ensure that our expenses reflect the actual effort incurred by the CROs.      Generally, a significant portion of the total clinical trial costs is associated with start up activities for the trial and patient
enrollment. We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. As a result, CROs typically perform most of the total start-up activities for our trials, including
document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training and program management. Start-up costs usually occur within a few months after the contract has been executed and are milestone or event driven in
nature.      The remaining clinical activities and related costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur
ratably throughout the life of the individual contract or study. Most contracts are negotiated as fixed per unit prices and can vary in length between three months for a single dose Phase 1 clinical study and up to two years or more for a more
complex Phase 3 clinical study. The average length of contracts in 2009, 2008 and 2007 has been at the upper end of this range in order to provide long-term safety and efficacy data to support the commercial launches of Truvada, Atripla, Viread,
Hepsera, Emtriva, Letairis and Ranexa. All of our material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point of
termination. Amounts paid in advance relating to uncompleted services will be refunded to us if a contract is terminated. Some contracts may include additional termination payments that become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such
additional termination payments are only recorded if it becomes probable that a contract will be terminated. Through December 31, 2009, differences between actual and estimated activity levels for any particular study have not been material.
However, if management does not receive complete and accurate information from our vendors or underestimates activity levels associated with a study at a given point in time, we may have to record additional and potentially significant R D
expenses in future periods.       Tax Provision       We estimate our income tax provision, including deferred tax assets and liabilities, based on significant management judgment. We evaluate the realization of all or a portion of our deferred tax assets on
a quarterly basis. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. We consider future taxable income, ongoing tax planning strategies and our historical financial
performance in assessing the need for a valuation allowance.      If we expect to realize deferred tax assets for which we have
previously recorded a valuation allowance, we will reduce the valuation allowance in the period in which such determination is first made. Such an adjustment was made in 2009 and 2008 when we determined that it was more likely than not that certain
of our deferred tax assets would be realized, and therefore, we released the related valuation allowance. This resulted in a credit to goodwill of approximately $8.0 million for 2008 and an income tax benefit of approximately $14.0 million and $15.5
million for 2009 and 2008, respectively.      Our future effective income tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in
tax laws, regulations or rates, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation, changes in our international organization and changes in overall levels of income before tax.   
     
   51   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax
benefits of $93.3 million and $119.3 million, respectively, including interest of $5.4 million and $10.1 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $74.7 million and $111.1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition.      In 2009, we reached agreement
with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on several issues related to the examinations of our federal income tax returns for 2003 through 2007. We also amended our California income tax returns for 2003 through 2007 based on the resolution of certain
tax positions with the IRS. As a result, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by $76.2 million in 2009.      As of
December 31, 2009, we believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $5.0 million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS around certain of our uncertain tax
positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authorities.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For federal income tax
purposes, the statute of limitations is open for 2003 and onward. For certain acquired entities, the statute of limitations is open for all years from inception due to our utilization of their net operating losses and credits carried over from prior
years. For California income tax purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for all years.      Our income tax returns are
audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the IRS for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and
regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically evaluate our exposures
associated with our tax filing positions.      We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with
the guidance that clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and
measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We do not believe any such uncertain tax positions currently pending will have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse
resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.       Stock-based Compensation       We measure all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of
stock options, based on their relative fair values. Fair values of awards granted under our stock option plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The Black-Scholes
option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions,
including expected stock price volatility and expected award life.      Stock-based compensation is recognized as expense over the
requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Income using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for non-vested stock options granted prior to January 1, 2006, and using the straight-line expense attribution approach for
stock options granted after our adoption of new guidance for share-based payments to employees and directors on January 1, 2006. As stock-based compensation expenses related to stock options recognized on adoption of the new guidance is based
on awards ultimately expected to vest, gross expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The guidance requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
        
   52   

Table of Contents  

forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated forfeitures based on our historical experience. Prior to the adoption of this guidance, pro forma information that was required to be
disclosed included forfeitures as they occurred. As a result of the guidance adopted on January 1, 2006, we only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in additional paid-in capital (APIC) if an incremental tax benefit is
realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction
through our Consolidated Statements of Income rather than through APIC.      During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007, we recognized stock-based compensation expenses of $185.8 million, $153.4 million and $184.6 million, respectively, in operating expenses, and we capitalized $11.4 million, $9.9 million and $9.8 million, respectively, to inventory. As of
December 31, 2009, we had unrecognized stock-based compensation expenses of $347.4 million related to non-vested stock options, which we expect to expense over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.7 years.      Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our
Board, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented above relating to these critical accounting policies.       Results of
Operations        Total Revenues       We had total revenues of $7.01 billion in 2009, $5.34 billion in 2008 and $4.23 billion in 2007. Included in total revenues were product sales, royalty revenues and contract and other revenues.
      Product Sales       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our product sales (in thousands):       
    Total product sales increased by 27% in 2009 compared
to 2008 and by 36% in 2008 compared to 2007, due primarily to an overall increase in our antiviral product sales including the strong growth of Atripla sales as well as the continued growth of Truvada sales. Foreign currency denominated product
sales experienced a net loss from the appreciation of the U.S. dollar of approximately $98.5 million for 2009 compared to 2008, and a net benefit from the depreciation of the U.S. dollar of approximately $148.2 million for 2008 compared to 2007. A
significant percentage of our product sales continued to be denominated in foreign currencies. We used foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in
Euro. This reduced, but did not eliminate, fluctuations in sales due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    Antiviral Products       Antiviral product sales increased 25% in 2009 compared to 2008 and by 36% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by sales volume growth
of Atripla and Truvada. The increase in 2008 compared to 2007 was also due to a favorable foreign currency exchange impact.       

Truvada           Truvada sales increased by 18% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact. Truvada sales increased by 33% in 2008
compared to 2007 driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe and a favorable foreign currency exchange impact. Truvada sales accounted for 43%, 45% and 46% of our total antiviral product sales for 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.       

Atripla           Atripla sales increased by 51% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. The European growth benefited from the launch of Atripla in France in the second quarter of 2009. Atripla
sales increased by 74% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by the continued uptake of Atripla in the United States, as well as launches of the product in most European countries. Atripla sales include the efavirenz portion at zero product
gross margin. The efavirenz portion of our Atripla sales was approximately $880.7 million, $576.0 million and $334.3 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Atripla sales accounted for 41%, 34% and 26% of our total antiviral product sales for
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       

Other Antiviral Products          Other antiviral product sales, which include product sales of Viread, Hepsera and Emtriva decreased by 3% for 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume decreases in Hepsera, partially offset
by sales volume increases in Viread for the treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis B. Other antiviral product sales increased by 5% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by a 13% increase in Hepsera sales which benefited from a favorable
foreign currency exchange impact as well as sales volume growth in certain European countries.       AmBisome       Sales of AmBisome increased 3% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume growth in certain European markets, partially
offset by an unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact. Sales of AmBisome increased 10% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by a favorable foreign currency exchange impact and sales volume growth in certain European markets. AmBisome
product sales in the United States and Canada relate solely to our sales of AmBisome to Astellas Pharma US, Inc. which are recorded at our manufacturing cost.       Letairis       Sales of Letairis for the treatment of PAH increased by 63% for
2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States. Sales of Letairis increased 437% in 2008 compared to 2007, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States as Letairis was launched in June of 2007.
      Ranexa       Sales of Ranexa were $131.1 million for the period from April 15, 2009 (the date of our acquisition of CV Therapeutics) to December 31, 2009.      We expect total product sales to continue to grow in 2010 as we continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    Royalty Revenues       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our royalty revenues (in thousands):       
    Our most
significant source of royalty revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was from sales of Tamiflu by Roche.      Royalty revenues for 2009
were $491.8 million, an increase of 125% compared to 2008, driven primarily by the recognition of Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $392.7 million in 2009 compared to Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $155.5 million in 2008. The higher Tamiflu royalties
for 2009 were due to increased Tamiflu sales by Roche related primarily to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. Royalty revenues for 2008 were $218.2 million, a decrease of 53% compared to 2007, driven primarily by the recognition of Tamiflu
royalties from Roche of $155.5 million in 2008 compared to Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $414.5 million in 2007. The lower Tamiflu royalties for 2008 was due primarily to decreased Roche sales related to pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. We
recognize royalties on Tamiflu sales by Roche in the quarter following the quarter in which Tamiflu is sold.       Cost of Goods Sold and
Product Gross Margin       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our product sales (in thousands),
cost of goods sold (in thousands) and product gross margin:       
    Our product gross
margin for 2009 was 75%, compared to 78% for 2008. The lower product gross margin in 2009 was due primarily to the higher proportion of Atripla sales, which include the efavirenz portion at zero product gross margin, as well as the amortization
associated with the intangible assets acquired in our acquisition of CV Therapeutics. Our product gross margin for 2008 was 78% compared to 79% for 2007. The decrease in product gross margin was due primarily to the higher proportion of Atripla
sales, which include the efavirenz portion at zero product gross margin, and the impact of changes in the product and geographic mix of our product sales. A higher mix of Atripla product sales decreases our overall product gross margin. Although we
record 100% of Atripla product sales, we only benefit from the product gross margin on the Truvada portion of Atripla sales. The efavirenz portion of Atripla sales carries a zero product gross profit and gross margin since we purchase efavirenz from
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) at BMS s net selling price of efavirenz.      We expect our product gross margin in 2010
to be lower compared to 2009, due primarily to a higher proportion of expected Atripla sales.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

    Research and Development Expenses       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in the major components of our R D expenses (in thousands):       
    R D expenses consist primarily of personnel costs,
including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, clinical studies performed by CROs, materials and supplies, licenses and fees and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities-related costs. Our R D activities are
separated into three main categories: research, clinical development and pharmaceutical development. Research costs typically consist of preclinical and toxicology costs. Clinical development costs include costs for clinical trials. Pharmaceutical
development expenses consist of costs for product formulation and chemical analysis.      R D expenses in 2009 increased by
$218.2 million or 30%, compared to 2008, due primarily to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $88.8 million driven by higher headcount related to the growth of our business, the R D expense reimbursement related to our
Tibotec TMC278 collaboration of $52.4 million and increased clinical study expenses of $23.9 million. The increase in compensation and benefits expenses was also driven by severance and termination benefits associated with our restructuring
activities related to our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.      R D expenses in 2008 increased by $130.7 million or 22%,
compared to 2007, due primarily to increased clinical study expenses of $75.2 million primarily in the antiviral and cardiovascular areas, as well as increased compensation and benefits expenses of $50.7 million due primarily to higher
headcount.      In general, significant collaboration payments, like those made to Tibotec, will cause our R D expenses to
fluctuate period over period. In 2010, we expect R D expenses to increase over 2009 levels due to increased spending on our internal and collaborative R D efforts as we anticipate that some of our product candidates will progress into more
advanced clinical studies as well as adding more clinical development programs to our pipeline.       Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our SG A expenses over the last three years
(in thousands):       
    SG A expenses
in 2009 increased by $149.3 million or 19%, compared to 2008, due primarily to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $75.4 million driven by higher headcount related to the growth of our business, increased contract and professional
services expenses of $46.6 million driven primarily by our expanding sales and marketing activities and $5.8 million related to certain contract termination costs. The increase in compensation and benefits expenses was also driven by severance and
termination benefits associated with our restructuring activities related to our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.      SG A
expenses for 2008 increased by $91.6 million or 13%, compared to 2007, due primarily to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $41.6 million due largely to higher headcount, increased marketing and
        
   56   

Table of Contents  

promotional expenses of $19.9 million to support our expanded commercial operations, increased consulting and support services expenses of $13.0 million related to the growth in our business, and
costs of $12.4 million associated with certain employee termination-related disputes in our international operations.      In
2010, we expect SG A expenses to increase over 2009 levels due to increased investment to support the growth in our HIV franchise, the full year impact of sales and marketing activities for Ranexa and the commercialization of Cayston. We believe
we have the appropriate infrastructure to support the growth of our business in 2010.       Purchased In-process Research and Development
Expenses       In connection with our acquisition of the cicletanine assets from Navitas Assets, LLC in 2008, we recorded
IPR D expense of $10.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. As we do not consider the acquisition to be a material purchase, we have not made further disclosures regarding the related purchased IPR D.      In connection with our acquisition of Myogen in 2006, we recorded purchased IPR D expenses of $2.06 billion during the year ended
December 31, 2006 related to the ambrisentan and darusentan IPR D projects that we acquired. The purchased IPR D expense represented the estimated fair value of Myogen s incomplete R D projects that had not yet reached
technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition. With respect to ambrisentan, in June 2007, the FDA approved Letairis for the treatment of PAH in the United
States. Additionally, in April 2008, the European Commission granted our collaboration partner, GSK, marketing authorization for ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH, which is marketed under the name Volibris by GSK. With respect to darusentan, in
December 2009, we announced plans to terminate the development of darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension after our second Phase 3 study of the compound failed to meet its co-primary efficacy endpoints.      In connection with our acquisition of Corus Pharma, Inc. (Corus) in 2006, we recorded purchased IPR D expenses of $335.6 million during
the year ended December 31, 2006 related to the aztreonam for inhalation solution for CF IPR D project that we acquired. The purchased IPR D expense represented the estimated fair value of Corus s incomplete R D project that
had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and, therefore, was expensed upon acquisition. In February 2010, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Cayston as a treatment to
improve respiratory symptoms in CF patients with  P. aeruginosa . Cayston was conditionally approved in Europe and Canada in September 2009.       Interest and Other Income, Net       We recorded interest and other income, net, of $42.4 million, $59.4 million and
$109.8 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 was due primarily to decreased interest income of $40.6 million driven by a reduction in the average yield of our investment portfolio as a result of lower
interest rates, partially offset by an increase in net foreign currency exchange gains of $15.7 million. The decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 was due primarily to increased costs related to our hedging activities of $32.3 million, net foreign
currency exchange losses of $15.7 million and decreased interest income of $7.5 million due primarily to lower interest rates, partially offset by the write-downs of certain securities recorded in 2007.       Interest Expense       On
January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for our convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes) and convertible senior notes due in 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) on a retrospective basis. The guidance requires us to bifurcate the
conversion option from the debt instrument by classifying the conversion option in equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. As a result of the retrospective
adoption of this guidance, we reflected additional interest expense of
        
   57   

Table of Contents  

$53.1 million and $50.1 million, respectively, and a related benefit from income taxes of $20.9 million and $19.7 million, respectively, in 2008 and 2007. We recorded additional interest expense
of $56.2 million and a related benefit from income taxes of $21.9 million in 2009.      Our interest expense was $69.7 million,
$65.2 million and $63.2 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increases in 2009 compared to 2008 and in 2008 compared to 2007 were due primarily to the effect of accreting the debt discount on the Notes as additional interest expense
over the expected life of the debt as discussed above.       Provision for Income Taxes       Our provision for income taxes was $876.4 million, $702.4 million and $635.4 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2009 effective
tax rate of 25.0% differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to tax credits, the resolution of certain tax positions with tax authorities and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered
indefinitely invested outside the United States, partially offset by state taxes and the revaluation of certain state tax assets related to the integration of CV Therapeutics. We do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our
foreign operations that are intended to be permanently reinvested.      The 2008 effective tax rate of 26.3% differs from the U.S.
federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to tax credits, the resolution of certain tax positions with tax authorities and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States,
partially offset by state taxes.      The 2007 effective tax rate of 28.7% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due
primarily to tax credits and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, partially offset by state taxes.      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $93.3 million and $119.3
million, respectively, including interest of $5.4 million and $10.1 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $74.7 million and $111.1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, if recognized, would reduce our
effective tax rate in the period of recognition. We have continued to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Income.      In 2009, we reached agreement with the IRS on several issues related to the examinations of our federal income tax returns for 2003 through
2007. We also amended our California income tax returns for 2003 through 2007 based on the resolution of certain tax positions with the IRS. As a result, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by $76.2 million in 2009.      As of December 31, 2009, we believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $5.0
million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS and other tax authorities around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a
reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authorities.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our working capital and our cash flow activities as of
the end of, and for each of, the last three years (in thousands):       
     Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable
Securities       Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $3.90 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase
of $665.2 million or 21% from December 31, 2008. This increase was primarily attributable to net cash provided by operations of $3.08 billion and proceeds from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans of $222.7 million,
partially offset by the following:       

cash used to acquire CV Therapeutics of $1.13 billion, net of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities acquired from CV Therapeutics of $245.4
million;          

$998.5 million used to repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase program; and          

$305.5 million used to extinguish the convertible senior notes we assumed in our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.         Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $3.24 billion at December 31, 2008, an increase of $517.2 million or 19% from
December 31, 2007. This increase was primarily attributable to:       
     
    This increase from 2007 to 2008 was partially offset by our repurchases of $1.97 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase
program during 2008.       Working Capital       Working capital was $2.94 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $116.5 million or 4% from working capital as of December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily attributable to:   

an increase of $209.3 million in accounts payable due primarily to the purchases of efavirenz at its estimated market value from BMS; and

a decrease of $133.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities since we held a higher proportion of long-term marketable
securities as of December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008.         This decrease from 2008 to 2009
was partially offset by an increase of $366.1 million in our accounts receivable, net, driven primarily by increased product sales.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

   Working capital at December 31, 2008 was $3.06 billion, an increase of $786.1 million
from December 31, 2007. This increase was primarily attributable to:       

an increase of $327.9 million in inventories due primarily to the purchases of efavirenz at its estimated market value from BMS;

an increase of $228.3 million in accounts receivable, net, driven primarily by increased product sales; and          

an increase of $618.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities.         This increase from 2007 to 2008 was partially offset by a $310.9 million increase in accounts payable due primarily to the purchases of
efavirenz at its estimated market value from BMS.       Cash Provided by Operating Activities       Cash provided by operating activities of $3.08 billion in 2009 primarily related to net income of $2.63 billion, adjusted for non-cash items
such as $180.7 million of stock-based compensation expenses and $148.4 million of amortization expenses. As a result of our adoption of the guidance for our joint ventures with BMS on January 1, 2009, we reclassified the change in
noncontrolling interest from cash provided by operating activities to cash used in financing activities.      Cash provided by
operating activities of $2.14 billion in 2008 primarily related to net income of $1.97 billion, adjusted for non-cash items such as $209.5 million of tax benefits from employee stock plans and $153.4 million of stock-based compensation expenses.
This was partially offset by $191.9 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises which we reclassified to cash used in financing activities.      Cash provided by operating activities of $1.67 billion in 2007 primarily related to net income of $1.58 billion, adjusted for non-cash items such as $184.6 million of stock-based compensation expenses,
$113.4 million of deferred income taxes and $110.7 million of tax benefits related to employee stock plans. This was partially offset by a $332.4 million net cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities.       Cash Used in Investing Activities       Cash used in investing activities in 2009 was $2.22 billion, driven by cash used for our acquisition of CV Therapeutics of $1.25 billion (net of cash acquired), a net use of $738.0 million in purchases of marketable securities and $230.1
million of capital expenditures for the year. Capital expenditures made in 2009, 2008 and 2007 related primarily to the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, upgrades to our facilities and spending on computer and laboratory equipment, as
well as enterprise software, to accommodate our continued business growth. Capital expenditures in 2009 also included the purchase of an office building and approximately 30 acres of land located in Foster City, California.      Cash used in investing activities in 2008 was $178.8 million, driven primarily by a net use of $53.0 million in purchases of marketable
securities and $115.0 million of capital expenditures for the year.      Cash used in investing activities in 2007 was $1.30
billion, driven primarily by a net use of $1.17 billion in purchases of marketable securities, cash used in our acquisition of Nycomed Limited of $46.4 million (net of cash acquired) and $78.6 million of capital expenditures for the year. Capital
expenditures in 2007 included the construction of a new building at our Foster City, California headquarters.      As of
December 31, 2009, we had capital expenditure commitments of $24.8 million, which consisted primarily of enterprise software purchase commitments. We expect to fulfill such commitments from funds generated from our operating cash flows.
        
   60   

Table of Contents  

    Cash Used in Financing Activities       Cash used in financing activities in 2009 was $1.05 billion, driven primarily by the $998.5 million used to repurchase our common stock under
our stock repurchase program and the $305.5 million used to extinguish the convertible senior notes assumed from the acquisition of CV Therapeutics. The cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $222.7 million from issuances of common stock
under our employee stock plans.      As a result of our adoption of the guidance for our joint ventures with BMS on
January 1, 2009, we reclassified the change in noncontrolling interest from cash provided by operating activities to cash used in financing activities, as discussed above.      Under our amended and restated credit agreement, we, along with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation,
may borrow up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. The credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit. Loans under the credit agreement bear interest at an interest rate of either
LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.20 percent to 0.32 percent or the base rate, as described in the credit agreement. In April 2009, in connection with the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, we borrowed $400.0 million under the credit agreement to
partially fund the acquisition and had fully repaid the amount as of December 31, 2009. The credit agreement will terminate in December 2012 and all unpaid borrowings thereunder shall be due and payable at that time. We may reduce the
commitments and may prepay loans under the credit agreement in whole or in part without penalty, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $1.25 billion was available to be drawn down under this credit agreement.
     Cash used in financing activities in 2008 was $1.47 billion, driven primarily by the $1.97 billion used to repurchase our
common stock under our stock repurchase program. The cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $246.1 million that we received from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans as well as $191.9 million of excess tax benefits
from stock option exercises. In October 2007, our Board authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $3.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans,
privately negotiated purchases or other means. In 2008, under this stock repurchase program, we repurchased shares in the open market and also entered into two structured accelerated share repurchase transactions with third parties which are
described below.      In February and October 2008, we entered into accelerated share repurchase agreements with a financial
institution to repurchase our common stock on an accelerated basis. For the February 2008 transaction, we paid $500.0 million to settle the initial purchase and received 9,373,548 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.34 per share. In June
2008, upon termination of the agreement we received an additional 239,612 shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per
share. As a result, the total number of shares repurchased and retired under this accelerated share repurchase agreement was 9,613,160 shares at an average purchase price of $52.01 per share. For the October 2008 transaction, we paid $750.0 million
to settle the initial purchase and received 14,874,519 shares of our common stock at a price of $50.42 per share. In March 2009, upon termination of the agreement we received an additional 1,356,337 shares of our common stock based on the average of
the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the total number of shares repurchased and retired under this accelerated share repurchase agreement was
16,230,856 shares at an average purchase price of $46.21 per share.      As of December 31, 2009, we completed share
repurchases under our $3.00 billion stock repurchase program. In January 2010, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions
pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means. This stock repurchase plan will expire in January 2011.      Cash used in financing activities in 2007 was $171.0 million, driven primarily by the $487.5 million used to repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase program and $99.0 million used to pay off all
        
   61   

Table of Contents  

remaining amounts due on our term loan, partially offset by proceeds from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans of $243.4 million, distributions from noncontrolling interest of
$96.3 million as well as $76.3 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises.      We believe that our existing
capital resources, supplemented by cash generated from our operations, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the following:

the commercial performance of our current and future products;          

the progress and scope of our R D efforts, including preclinical studies and clinical trials;          

the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews;          

the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities;          

administrative expenses;          

the possibility of acquiring additional manufacturing capabilities or office facilities;          

the possibility of acquiring other companies or new products;          

the establishment of additional collaborative relationships with other companies; and          

costs associated with the defense, settlement and adverse results of litigation and government investigations.         We may in the future require additional funding, which could be in the form of proceeds from equity or debt financings. If such funding is
required, we cannot assure that it will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.       Off Balance Sheet Arrangements    
  We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements.       Contractual Obligations       Our contractual obligations consist of debt
obligations, operating leases, capital commitments, purchase obligations for active pharmaceutical ingredients and inventory-related items and clinical trials contracts. The following table summarizes our significant enforceable and legally binding
obligations, future commitments and obligations related to all contracts that we are likely to continue regardless of the fact that certain of these obligations may be cancelable as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands):       

(2)  
  At December 31, 2009, we had firm capital project commitments of approximately $24.8 million primarily relating to enterprise software purchase commitments.
          
   62   

Table of Contents  

(3)  
  At December 31, 2009, we had firm purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory-related items. These amounts represent
minimum purchase requirements and actual purchases are expected to significantly exceed these amounts.         

(4)  
  In addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development
arrangements. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably
estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and have not been included in the table above.         

(5)  
  At December 31, 2009, we had several clinical studies in various clinical trial phases. Our most significant clinical trial expenditures are to CROs. Although all
of our material contracts with CROs are cancelable, we historically have not cancelled such contracts. These amounts reflect commitments based on existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or terminations of, existing
contracts or anticipated or potential new contracts.        We had total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of
$116.0 million as of December 31, 2009. We believe that it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $5.0 million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the tax authorities
around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authorities. Such
amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable and non current deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and have not been included in the table above.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amended standards for determining whether to consolidate a variable interest entity under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) section 810-10-25. These amended
standards eliminate a mandatory quantitative approach to determine whether a variable interest gives the entity a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity in favor of a qualitatively focused analysis, and require an ongoing
reassessment of whether the entity is a primarily beneficiary. The amended standards are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2010. We have been consolidating our joint ventures with BMS because we are the primary
beneficiary. We are still evaluating whether the revised standard will have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In October 2009, the FASB issued new standards for revenue recognition for agreements with multiple deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple element
arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new standards modify the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the
residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new standards are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2011, however early adoption is permitted. We have not yet evaluated whether these new standards will have
a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK          Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our operations include manufacturing and
sales activities in the United States, Canada and Ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the United States, including Europe and Australia. As a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as
changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. Our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and various
foreign currencies,
        
   63   

Table of Contents  

the most significant of which is the Euro. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely,
when the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S.
dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.      A significant percentage of
our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency
denominated sales. We also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash
is collected or paid. In general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged.      The following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2009. We had no
foreign currency exchange option contracts outstanding at December 31, 2009. All contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. Weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of U.S. dollars per foreign currency. Fair values
represent estimated settlement amounts at December 31, 2009 (notional amounts and fair values in U.S. dollars and in thousands):        Foreign Currency Exchange Forward Contracts          
    The total notional amount of $3.45 billion and total fair value relating to our net liability of $21.5
million on our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2009 compares with the total notional amount of $2.39 billion and total fair value relating to our net asset of $90.7 million on our open foreign currency exchange
forward and option contracts at December 31, 2008.       Interest Rate Risk       Our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate
risk. With respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued
by the U.S. government. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows:       

safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk;          

liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and          

competitive after-tax rate of return.            
   64   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our
interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands):       
     
     Credit Risk       A portion of our marketable securities consist of auction rate
securities. In 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for auction rate securities whose underlying assets are comprised of student loans. As of December 31, 2009, we held approximately $104.8 million of auction rate securities within our
available-for-sale long-term marketable securities whose underlying assets were comprised of student loans. Our auction rate securities comprised approximately 3% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of
December 31, 2009. All of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated AAA, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy, are supported by the federal government
as part of the Federal Family Education Loan Program, and are over-collateralized. Our auction rate securities reset every seven to 35 days with maturity dates ranging from 2023 through 2041 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.4% to 1.2%.
As of December 31, 2009, our auction rate securities continued to earn interest.      If auctions continue to fail for
securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. However, based on our total cash and marketable
securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we believe that we will be able to hold these securities until there is a recovery in the auction market and the related
securities, which may be at final maturity. As a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital.      In light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continue to review our cash equivalents and
marketable securities carefully and strive to invest prudently. We believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity, has protected us from
many of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other strategic opportunities such as the acquisition of CV Therapeutics in 2009.      Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2009 was $1.39 billion, compared to $1.02 billion at December 31, 2008. The growth
in our accounts receivable balance was due primarily to higher product sales of our antiviral products in the United States and Europe. Our European product sales to government-owned or supported customers in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain are
subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. This has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable
outstanding. This, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. Sales to customers in these countries in Europe that tend to pay relatively slowly have increased, and may continue to further increase. At
December 31,
        
   65   

Table of Contents  

2009, our accounts receivable for Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain totaled $753.6 million, of which $289.4 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual payment terms.
To date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable and believe that our accounts receivable, net of allowances, as reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, are collectible.   

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The financial statements required by this item are set forth beginning at page 78 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         (a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures      An evaluation as of December 31, 2009 was carried out under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our  disclosure controls and procedures,  which are defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under
the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the company s
management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at December 31, 2009.      (b) Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting      Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the internal control
system are met.      Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.      Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has audited our Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have issued a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. Their report on the audit of internal control over financial reporting appears below.
     (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting      Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009, and has concluded that there was no change during such quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Gilead Sciences, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Gilead Sciences, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2009 consolidated financial statements of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and our report dated March 1, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      March 1, 2010         
   67   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not
applicable.       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         The information required by this Item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated by reference to the sections of our Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement) under the headings  Nominees,   Qualification of Nominees,   Board Committees and
Meetings ,  Executive Officers,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.       Our written Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors and employees, including our executive officers, including without limitation our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics is available on our website at http://www.gilead.com in the Investors section under  Corporate Governance.  Changes to or waivers of the Code of Ethics will be
disclosed on the same website. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of the Code of Ethics by disclosing such information on the same website.

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings  Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, 
 Compensation Committee Report,  and  Compensation of Non-Employee Board Members.        

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.        

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings
 Nominees  and  Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.        

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement under the heading  Principal Accountant Fees and Services.          
   68   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:      (1) Index list to Consolidated Financial Statements:       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
      
  77   

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  78   

Consolidated Statements of Income    
      
  79   

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  80   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  81   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  82       (2)
Schedule II is included on page 103 of this report. All other schedules are omitted because they are not required or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.      (3) Exhibits.      The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference:       

Exhibit Footnote    
      
   Exhibit Number   
      
     Description of Document     
 
  (1)  
      
    2.1  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger among Registrant, Apex Merger Sub, Inc. and CV Therapeutics, Inc., dated as of March 12, 2009   

(1)  
      
    2.2  
      
  Stockholder Agreement by and between Registrant and Louis G. Lange, dated as of March 12, 2009   

(2)  
      
    3.1  
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended through May 8, 2008   

(3)  
      
    3.2  
      
  Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(4)  
      
    3.3  
      
  Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Registrant   

(5)  
      
    3.4  
      
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended and restated on October 24, 2008   

4.1  
      
  Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1, Exhibit 3.2, Exhibit 3.3 and Exhibit 3.4   

(6)  
      
    4.2  
      
  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC, dated October 21, 1999   

(7)  
      
    4.3  
      
  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated
October 29, 2003   

(8)  
      
    4.4  
      
  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated
May 11, 2006   

(9)  
      
    4.5  
      
  Indenture related to the Convertible Senior Notes, due 2011, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (including form of 0.50% Convertible Senior
Note due 2011), dated April 25, 2006   

(9)  
      
    4.6  
      
  Indenture related to the Convertible Senior Notes, due 2013, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (including form of 0.625% Convertible Senior
Note due 2013), dated April 25, 2006   
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

70   

Table of Contents  

71   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Footnote    
      
   Exhibit Number   
      
     Description of Document     

(30)  
      
  10.46  
      
  Amendment Agreement between Registrant and IOCB/REGA, dated December 27, 2000 amending the 1991 License Agreement and the December 1992 License Agreement   

(28)  
      
  10.47  
      
  Sixth Amendment Agreement to the License Agreement, between IOCB/REGA and Registrant, dated August 18, 2006 amending the October 1992 License Agreement and the December 1992 License
Agreement   

+(28)  
      
  10.48  
      
  Development and License Agreement among Registrant and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., dated September 27, 1996   

+(31)  
      
  10.49  
      
  First Amendment and Supplement dated November 15, 2005 to the Development and Licensing Agreement between Registrant, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffman-La Roche Inc. dated
September 27, 1996   

+(32)  
      
  10.50  
      
  Exclusive License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Glaxo Group Limited, The Wellcome Foundation Limited, Glaxo Wellcome Inc. and Emory
University, dated May 6, 1999   

+(33)  
      
  10.51  
      
  Royalty Sale Agreement by and among Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust   Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of Royalty Pharma,
dated July 18, 2005   

+(33)  
      
  10.52  
      
  Amended and Restated License Agreement between Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust   Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of
Royalty Pharma, dated July 21, 2005.   

+(34)  
      
  10.53  
      
  License Agreement between Japan Tobacco Inc. and Registrant, dated March 22, 2005   

+(35)  
      
  10.54  
      
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Myogen, Inc.) and Abbott Deutschland Holding GmbH dated October 8, 2001   

+(35)  
      
  10.55  
      
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Myogen, Inc.) and Abbott Laboratories, dated June 30, 2003   

+(36)  
      
  10.56  
      
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Syntex (U.S.A.) Inc., dated March 27, 1996   

+(36)  
      
  10.57  
      
  First Amendment to License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Syntex (U.S.A.) Inc., dated July 3, 1997   

(36)  
      
  10.58  
      
  Amendment No. 2 to License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Syntex (U.S.A.) Inc., dated November 30. 1999   

+(37)  
      
  10.59  
      
  Amendment No. 4 to Collaboration and License Agreement with Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Roche Palo Alto LLC, dated June 20, 2006   

+(38)  
      
  10.60  
      
  License and Collaboration Agreement by and among Registrant, Gilead Sciences Limited and Tibotec Pharmaceuticals, dated July 16, 2009   

+(39)  
      
  10.61  
      
  Master Clinical and Commercial Supply Agreement between Gilead World Markets, Limited, Registrant and Patheon Inc., dated January 1, 2003   

+(33)  
      
  10.62  
      
  Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd., dated July 17, 2003

+(40)  
      
  10.63  
      
  Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., dated May 10, 2007

+(25)  
      
  10.64  
      
  Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., dated December 5,
2008   
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 12, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(2)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(3)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(4)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(5)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(6)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 22, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(7)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(9)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 25, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.           
   73   

Table of Contents  

(10)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(11)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K also filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

(12)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 21, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(14)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-55680), as amended, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(15)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(16)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.         

(17)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on February 22, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(18)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

(19)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

(20)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(21)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

(22)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K first filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

(24)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(25)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

(26)  
  Information is included in Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(27)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

(28)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(29)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.

(30)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.
          
   74   

Table of Contents  

(31)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(32)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A filed on November 3, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

(33)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(34)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(37)  
  Filed as an exhibit to CV Therapeutics, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(38)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

(39)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.

(40)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 7, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.         

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.         

**  
  This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by
reference into any filing of Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language
contained in such filing.         

***  
  XBRL information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.         

+  
  Certain confidential portions of this Exhibit were omitted by means of marking such portions with an asterisk (the Mark). This Exhibit has been filed separately with
the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission without the Mark pursuant to Registrant s Application Requesting Confidential Treatment under Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.          
   75   

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        Years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007        CONTENTS        

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  77   

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  78   

Consolidated Statements of Income    
      
  79   

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  80   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  81   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  82          
   76   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Gilead Sciences, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the consolidated financial position of Gilead Sciences, Inc. at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.      As discussed in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for its convertible senior notes that may be settled in cash upon conversion, its method of accounting for and presentation of noncontrolling interest, and its method of accounting for business combinations effective
January 1, 2009.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 1, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      / S /    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California   
  March 1, 2010         
   77   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Balance Sheets        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   78   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Income        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying
notes.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

1.   
   ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or
our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from
life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America, Europe and Australia. Currently, we market Truvada      (emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), Atripla      (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Viread      (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva      (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infection; Hepsera      (adefovir dipivoxil) and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B; AmBisome      (amphotericin B liposome for injection) for the treatment of severe fungal infections; Letairis      (ambrisentan) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); Ranexa      (ranolazine) for the treatment of chronic angina; Vistide      (cidofovir injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection and Cayston      (aztreonam for inhalation solution) as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
( P. aeruginosa ). F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu    
  (oseltamivir phosphate) for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. markets Macugen      (pegaptanib sodium injection) in the United States and Europe for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration under a royalty-paying collaborative
agreement with us. GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) markets Volibris  (ambrisentan) outside of the United States for the treatment of PAH under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA
(Menarini) markets Ranexa outside of the United States under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. Astellas US LLC markets Lexiscan      (regadenoson) injection in the United States for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) under a royalty-paying
collaborative agreement with us.       Basis of Presentation       The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Gilead, our wholly-owned subsidiaries and our joint ventures with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS), for which we are the
primary beneficiary. We record a noncontrolling interest in our Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect BMS s interest in the joint ventures. Significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated. The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the results of companies acquired by us from the date of each acquisition for the applicable reporting periods.       FASB Accounting Standards Codification       On July 1, 2009, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). The FASB ASC became the source of authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) recognized by the FASB to be applied by non-governmental entities, and was effective for
interim periods and fiscal years ending after September 15, 2009. As a result, the majority of historically issued accounting pronouncements are now superseded by the FASB ASC.       Convertible Senior Notes       On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for our convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes) and convertible senior notes due in 2013 (2013 Notes) (collectively, the Notes) on a retrospective
basis. The guidance requires us to bifurcate the conversion option from the debt instrument by classifying the conversion option in
        
   82   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. As a result of the retrospective adoption of this guidance, we
reflected additional interest expense of $53.1 million and $50.1 million, respectively, a related benefit from income taxes of $20.9 million and $19.7 million, respectively, and a decrease in net income per share attributable to Gilead common
stockholders on a diluted basis of $0.04 and $0.04, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. We recorded additional interest expense of $56.2 million, a related benefit from income taxes of $21.9 million and a decrease in
net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders on a diluted basis of approximately $0.04 for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, the retrospective adoption of this guidance decreased deferred tax assets and debt
issuance costs included in other assets by an aggregate of $81.7 million, decreased convertible senior notes, net included in long-term liabilities by $201.8 million and increased total stockholders  equity by $120.1 million after a charge of
$82.6 million to retained earnings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008. See Note 10 for additional information.       Noncontrolling Interest       On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for
our joint ventures with BMS on a retrospective basis. This guidance establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income (loss)
attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interests, changes in a parent s ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. This guidance also establishes
additional reporting requirements that identify and distinguish between the ownership interest of the parent and the interest of the noncontrolling owners. This guidance is effective for interim periods and fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008 and requires retrospective application to all periods presented. As a result of retrospective adoption of this guidance, we reclassified the noncontrolling interest (formerly minority interest) from liabilities to
stockholders  equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our adoption of this guidance also resulted in the reclassification of the change in noncontrolling interest from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash used in financing
activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We also presented the noncontrolling interest on our Consolidated Statements of Income as net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, a component of consolidated net income, on a
retrospective basis.       Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments       The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including critical accounting policies or estimates related to revenue recognition,
intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts, prepaid royalties, clinical trial accruals, our tax provision and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may
differ significantly from these estimates.       Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenue from product sales when there is
persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Upon recognition of revenue from product sales, provisions are made for government
rebates such as Medicaid
        
   83   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
reimbursements, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and expected returns of expired products, as appropriate.       Items Deducted from Gross Product Sales        Government Rebates       We estimate reductions to our revenues for
government-managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates, new information regarding changes in these programs 
regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and, for our U.S. product sales, channel inventory data obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in
accordance with our inventory management agreements. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us are recorded in other accrued liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase our products through
wholesalers at a lower contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower contractual government price, which we record as allowances against accounts receivable.   
   Cash Discounts       We estimate cash discounts based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates and our expectations regarding future utilization rates.       Distributor Fees       Under our inventory management agreements with our
significant U.S. wholesalers, we pay the wholesalers a fee primarily for the compliance of certain contractually determined covenants such as the maintenance of agreed upon inventory levels. These distributor fees are based on a contractually
determined fixed percentage of sales.       Product Returns       We do not provide our customers with a general right of product return, but permit returns if the product is damaged or defective when
received by the customer, or in the case of product sold in the Unites States and certain international countries, if the product has expired. We will accept returns for product that will expire within six months prior to or that have expired up to
one year after their expiration dates. Our estimates for expected returns of expired products are based primarily on an ongoing analysis of historical return patterns.       Royalty Revenues       Royalty revenue from sales of Lexiscan and AmBisome by
Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (Astellas) is recognized in the month following the month in which the corresponding sales occur. Royalty revenue from sales of our other products is generally recognized when received, which is generally in the quarter
following the quarter in which the corresponding sales occur.       Contract and Other Revenues       Revenue from non-refundable up-front license fees and milestone payments such as under a development collaboration or an obligation to supply
product, is recognized as performance occurs and our obligations are
        
   84   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
completed. In accordance with the specific terms of Gilead s obligations under these arrangements, revenue is recognized as the obligation is fulfilled or ratably over the development or
manufacturing period. Revenue associated with substantive at-risk milestones is recognized based upon the achievement of the milestones as defined in the respective agreements. Advance payments received in excess of amounts earned are classified as
deferred revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.       Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and handling costs incurred for inventory purchases and product shipments are recorded in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated
Statements of Income.       Research and Development Expenses       Major components of research and development (R D) expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, clinical studies performed by contract research
organizations (CROs), materials and supplies, licenses and fees and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities related costs. Our R D activities are also separated into three main categories: research, clinical development
and pharmaceutical development. Research costs typically consist of preclinical and toxicology costs. Clinical development costs include costs for Phase 1, 2, 3 and 4 clinical trials. Pharmaceutical development expenses consist of costs for product
formulation and chemical analysis.      We charge R D costs, including clinical study costs, to expense when incurred .
 Clinical study costs are a significant component of R D expenses. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third party CROs. We monitor levels of performance under each significant contract including the extent of patient enrollment and
other activities through communications with our CROs, and we accrue costs for clinical studies to reflect the level of effort actually incurred by each CRO.      All of our material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point
of termination. Amounts paid in advance related to uncompleted services will be refunded to us if a contract is terminated. Some contracts may include additional termination payments that become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such
additional termination payments are only recorded if it becomes probable that a contract will be terminated.       Advertising Expenses  
     We expense the costs of advertising, including promotional expenses, as incurred. Advertising expenses were $108.1 million in
2009, $96.2 million in 2008 and $81.1 million in 2007.       Net Income Per Share Attributable to Gilead Common Stockholders       Basic net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our
common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our common stock outstanding and other dilutive securities
outstanding during the period. The potential dilutive shares of our common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options and equivalents (consisting primarily of performance shares) and the assumed exercise of warrants
relating to the Notes are determined under the treasury stock method.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Because the principal amount of the Notes will be settled in cash, only the conversion
spread relating to the Notes is included in our calculation of diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders. Our common stock resulting from the assumed settlement of the conversion spread of the Notes has a dilutive
effect when the average market price of our common stock during the period exceeds the conversion prices of $38.75 and $38.10 for the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes, respectively. For the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007, the average market price of our
common stock exceeded both of the conversion prices of our Notes and the dilutive effect is included in the table below.      Warrants relating to the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes have a dilutive effect when the average market price of our common stock during the period exceeds the warrants  exercise prices of $50.80 and $53.90, respectively. The average market
price of our common stock during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 did not exceed the warrants  exercise prices relating to the Notes.      Stock options to purchase approximately 17.4 million, 11.4 million and 15.5 million weighted-average shares of our common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders because the options  exercise prices were greater than the average market price of our common
stock during these periods; therefore, their effect was antidilutive.      The following table is a reconciliation of the
numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders (in thousands):       
     Stock-Based Compensation       On January 1, 2006, we adopted guidance for our share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options. The
guidance requires that share-based payments to employees be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income based on their fair values. The guidance also requires the benefit of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be
reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as a financing activity, rather than as an operating activity. We applied the modified prospective method, which requires that compensation expenses be recorded for the vesting of all non-vested
stock options and other stock-based awards at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption. In addition, we calculated our pool of excess tax benefits available within additional paid-in capital (APIC) in accordance with the provisions of this
guidance.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Cash and Cash Equivalents       We consider highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and an original maturity of three months or less on the
purchase date to be cash equivalents. We may enter into overnight repurchase agreements (repos) under which we purchase securities with an obligation to resell them the following day. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are recorded at
face value and reported as cash and cash equivalents. Under our investment policy, we may enter into repos with major banks and authorized dealers provided that such repos are collateralized by U.S. government securities with a fair value of at
least 102% of the fair value of securities sold to us. Other eligible instruments under our investment policy that are included in cash equivalents include commercial paper, money market funds and other bank obligations.       Marketable and Nonmarketable Securities       We determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities, which consist primarily of debt securities and which include auction rate securities and variable rate demand obligations, at the
time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. All of our marketable securities are considered as available-for-sale and carried at estimated fair values and reported in either cash equivalents, short-term marketable
securities or long-term marketable securities. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from net income and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders 
equity. Interest and other income, net, includes interest, dividends, amortization of purchase premiums and discounts, realized gains and losses on sales of securities and other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of securities, if any. The
cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. We regularly review all of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Our review includes the consideration of the cause of the impairment, including the
creditworthiness of the security issuers, the number of securities in an unrealized loss position, the severity and duration of the unrealized losses, whether we have the intent to sell the securities and whether it is more likely than not that we
will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment is below our accounting basis and this decline is other-than-temporary, we reduce the
carrying value of the security we hold and record a loss for the amount of such decline.      As a result of entering into
collaborations, from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We record these nonmarketable securities at cost in other noncurrent assets, less any amounts for other-than-temporary impairment. We regularly review our securities
for indicators of impairment. Investments in nonmarketable securities are not material for the periods presented.       Concentrations of Risk
      We are subject to credit risk from our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities. Under our investment
policy, we limit amounts invested in such securities by credit rating, maturity, industry group, investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. We are not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk
from these financial instruments. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and a
competitive after-tax rate of return.      We are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product
sales. The majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the United States and Europe. In certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain, our aggregated accounts receivable
balance is significant. In most cases, slow payment practices in these countries reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. This, in turn, may increase the financial risk related to
        
   87   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
certain of our customers. Sales to customers in these countries in Europe that tend to pay relatively slowly have increased, and may continue to further increase. At December 31, 2009, our
aggregate accounts receivable in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain totaled $753.6 million, of which $289.4 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual payment terms. To date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect
to the collection of our accounts receivable and believe that our past due accounts receivable, net of allowances, as reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, are collectible.      Certain of the raw materials and components that we utilize in our operations are obtained through single suppliers. Certain of the raw
materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. Since the suppliers of key components and raw materials must be named in a new drug application (NDA) filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a product,
significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship our commercial products or to supply any of our product candidates
for clinical trials.       Accounts Receivable       Trade accounts receivable are recorded net of allowances for wholesaler chargebacks related to government rebate programs, cash discounts for prompt payment, doubtful accounts and sales returns. Estimates
for wholesaler chargebacks for government rebates, cash discounts and sales returns are based on contractual terms, historical trends and our expectations regarding the utilization rates for these programs. Estimates for our allowance for doubtful
accounts is determined based on existing contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by customer and geographic region and a review of the local
economic environment and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. Historically, the amounts of uncollectible accounts receivable that have been written off have been insignificant and consistent with management s
expectations.       Inventories       Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We periodically review the composition of our inventories in order to identify obsolete,
slow-moving or otherwise unsaleable items. If unsaleable items are observed and there are no alternate uses for the inventory, we will record a write-down to net realizable value in the period that the impairment is first recognized.       Prepaid Royalties       Prepaid
royalties are capitalized at cost which initially is equivalent to the present value of the future royalty obligation that we would expect to pay to the licensor on expected future levels of product sales incorporating the related technology. We
review periodically the expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down in the net recoverable value of our asset or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. We amortize our prepaid
royalties to cost of goods sold over the remaining life of the underlying patent based on an effective royalty rate derived from forecasted future product sales incorporating the related technology. We review our effective royalty rate at least
annually and prospectively adjust the effective rate based on significant new facts or circumstances that may arise from our review.      Our prepaid royalties are primarily comprised of emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory University (Emory) for the HIV indication when we and Royalty Pharma purchased the royalty interest owned by Emory in 2005. Under the terms of the
transaction, we and Royalty Pharma paid 65% and 35%, respectively, of the total
        
   88   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
purchase price of $525.0 million to Emory in exchange for the elimination of the emtricitabine royalties due to Emory on worldwide net sales of products containing emtricitabine. As a result of
this transaction, we capitalized as prepaid royalties our 65% share of the $525.0 million purchase price, or $341.3 million. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had an unamortized prepaid royalty asset of $245.0 million and $275.0 million,
respectively. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, $29.9 million, $31.8 million and $14.3 million were amortized to cost of goods sold, respectively.       Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives in years are as follows:       

Description    
      
   Estimated Useful Life    
 
    Buildings and improvements   
      
  20-35   
 
    Laboratory and manufacturing equipment   
      
  4-10   
 
    Office and computer equipment   
      
  3-7   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of useful life or lease term       Office and computer equipment includes capitalized software. We had unamortized capitalized software costs of $25.2 million and $17.9 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively. Leasehold improvements and capitalized leased equipment are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the asset s useful life. Amortization of capitalized leased equipment is included in depreciation expense.
Capitalized interest on construction in-progress is included in property, plant and equipment. Interest capitalized in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was not significant.       Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       Goodwill represents the excess of the
consideration transferred over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Other intangible assets primarily related to marketed products and purchased in-process research and development
(IPR D) projects from our acquisition of CV Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics) in April 2009, and are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. We do not amortize goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and in between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the
fair value of the assets below their carrying amounts.      Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their
estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We are amortizing the intangible asset related to the Ranexa product, which we acquired from
CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life using an amortization rate derived from our forecasted future product sales for Ranexa. Our product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon
considering such factors as historical and expected future patient usage or uptake of our products, the introduction of complimentary or combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant
change occurs to our sales forecasts, we will prospectively update the rate used to amortize our intangible asset related to Ranexa which may increase future cost of goods sold, as that is where we record the amortization expense. We are amortizing
the intangible asset related to the Lexiscan
        
   89   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
product, which we also acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life to cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis. Given that current Lexiscan revenues consist of royalties
received from a collaboration partner and we will have limited ongoing access and visibility into that partner s future sales forecasts, we cannot make a reasonable estimate of the amortization rate utilizing a forecasted product sales
approach.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The carrying value of long-lived assets is reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances both internally and externally that may suggest impairment. Specific potential indicators
of impairment include a significant decrease in the fair value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used or a significant physical change in an asset, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the
business climate that affects the value of an asset, an adverse action or assessment by the FDA or another regulator, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset and operating
or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with an income producing asset.      Should there be an indication of impairment, we will test for recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows
expected to result from the use of the asset or asset group and its eventual disposition to the carrying amount of the asset or asset group. Any excess of the carrying value of the asset or asset group over its estimated fair value will be
recognized as an impairment loss.       Foreign Currency Translation, Transactions and Contracts       Adjustments resulting from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars are excluded from the
determination of net income and are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders  equity. Net foreign currency exchange transaction gains or losses are included in interest and other income,
net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Net transaction gains (losses) totaled $(16.4) million, $(36.5) million and $11.4 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      We hedge certain of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary assets and liabilities and forecasted product sales with
foreign currency exchange forward contracts and foreign currency exchange option contracts. In general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. Our exposure to credit risk
from these contracts is a function of changes in interest and currency exchange rates and, therefore, varies over time. We limit the risk that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform by transacting only with major banks, all of
which we monitor closely in the context of current market conditions. We also limit risk of loss by entering into contracts that provide for net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is
limited to the amount of any unrecognized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair value) at the date of default. We do not enter into speculative foreign currency transactions. We do not hedge our net
investment in any of our foreign subsidiaries.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments       Our financial instruments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, foreign currency
exchange forward and option contracts, accounts payable and long-term debt. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge accounts receivable and forecasted sales are reported at their respective
fair values on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The carrying value and fair value of the Notes were $1.16 billion and $1.58 billion, respectively, as of
        
   90   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
December 31, 2009. The carrying value and fair value of the Notes were $1.10 billion and $1.76 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. The fair value of the Notes was based on
their quoted market values. The remaining financial instruments are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts that approximate current fair values.       Income Taxes       Our income tax provision is computed under the liability
method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to
reverse. Significant estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our
income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R D
spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact
on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our consolidated net income.      We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with the guidance that clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial
statements by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We do not believe any such uncertain tax
positions currently pending will have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of
operations for that period.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In June 2009, the FASB issued amended standards for determining whether to consolidate a variable interest entity under ASC section
810-10-25. These amended standards eliminate a mandatory quantitative approach to determine whether a variable interest gives the entity a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity in favor of a qualitatively focused
analysis, and require an ongoing reassessment of whether the entity is a primarily beneficiary. The amended standards are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2010. We have been consolidating our joint ventures with BMS
because we are the primary beneficiary. We are still evaluating whether the revised standard will have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In October 2009, the FASB issued new standards for revenue recognition for agreements with multiple deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of when the individual deliverables
included in a multiple element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new standards modify the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by
no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new standards are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2011, however early adoption is permitted. We have not yet evaluated whether these
new standards will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

2.   
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS         On January 1, 2008, we adopted guidance for fair value measurements on a prospective basis for our financial assets and liabilities as well as for non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at
        
   91   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
fair value on a recurring basis. The guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosure requirements regarding fair value measurements. This
guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 for financial assets and liabilities as well as for non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis in the
financial statements and is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all other non-financial assets and liabilities. On January 1, 2009, we adopted the provisions of this guidance on a prospective basis for our
non-financial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. The adoption of the guidance had no effect on our consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2009.      The fair value guidance requires that we determine the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value
hierarchy established in the guidance and describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows:      Level 1 inputs which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;      Level 2 inputs
which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or
can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability; and      Level 3 inputs
which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are
determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.      The following table summarizes, for assets or liabilities recorded at fair value, the respective fair value and the classification by level of input within the fair value hierarchy defined above (in
thousands):       
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Marketable securities, measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs, are primarily
comprised of U.S. Government sponsored and corporate debt securities. The company reviews trading activity and pricing for these investments as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the
company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third party data providers. These inputs represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or these inputs have been derived from
observable market data. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.     The following table is a reconciliation of marketable securities measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in thousands):       
    Marketable securities, measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs, are substantially comprised of auction
rate securities within our available-for-sale investment portfolio. The underlying assets of our auction rate securities are comprised of student loans. Although auction rate securities would typically be measured using Level 2 inputs, the failure
of auctions and the lack of market activity and liquidity experienced since the beginning of 2008 required that these securities be measured using Level 3 inputs. The fair value of our auction rate securities was determined using a discounted cash
flow model that considered projected cash flows for the issuing trusts, underlying collateral and expected yields. Projected cash flows were estimated based on the underlying loan principal, bonds outstanding and payout formulas. The
weighted-average life over which the cash flows were projected considered the collateral composition of the securities and related historical and projected prepayments. The underlying student loans have a weighted-average expected life of four to
eight years. The discount rates used in our discounted cash flow model were based on market conditions for comparable or similar term asset-backed securities as well as other fixed income securities adjusted for an illiquidity discount resulting in
an annual discount rate of 2.3%. Our auction rate securities reset every seven to 35 days with maturity dates ranging from 2023 through 2041 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.4% to 1.2%. As of December 31, 2009, our auction rate
securities continued to earn interest.      In April 2009, the FASB also issued additional guidance on estimating fair value when
the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability and is applicable to the valuation of auction rate securities held by us for which there was no
active market as of December 31, 2009.      Our auction rate securities were recorded in long-term marketable securities on
our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Although there continued to be failed auctions as well as lack of market activity and liquidity in 2009, we believe we had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as
of December 31, 2009 because we do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

3.   
   AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES         The following table is a summary of available-for-sale debt and equity securities recorded in cash equivalents or marketable securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Estimated fair values of available-for-sale securities are generally
based on prices obtained from commercial pricing services (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, other debt
securities consisted primarily of foreign government and agency securities as well as other asset-backed securities.      The
following table summarizes the classification of the available-for-sale debt and equity securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):       
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes our portfolio of available-for-sale debt securities by
contractual maturity (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the gross realized
gains and losses related to sales of marketable securities (in thousands):       
    The cost of securities
sold was determined based on the specific identification method.      The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt
securities that were in a continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (in thousands):       
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the gross unrealized losses were primarily the
result of an increase in the yield-to-maturity of the underlying securities, and were approximately 32% and 29%, respectively, of the total number of securities in an unrealized loss position. In the case of auction rate securities, gross unrealized
losses were caused by a higher discount rate used in the valuation of these securities as compared to the coupon rates of these securities. No significant facts or circumstances have arisen to indicate that there has been any deterioration in the
creditworthiness of the issuers of these securities. Based on our review of these securities, we believe we had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 because we do not intend to sell these
securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis.       

4.   
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS         On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for derivative instruments, on a prospective basis, which requires enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures to enable financial statement users to better understand the effects of
derivatives and hedging on an entity s financial position, financial performance and cash flows in the context of an entity s risk exposures.      We operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of
which is the Euro. In order to manage the risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we hedge certain of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary assets and liabilities and forecasted product sales with foreign
currency exchange forward contracts and foreign currency exchange option contracts. In general, the market risks of our foreign currency exchange contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. Our exposure
to credit risk from these contracts is a function of changes in interest and currency exchange rates and, therefore, varies over time. We limit the risk that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform by transacting only with major
banks, all of which we monitor closely in the context of current market conditions. We also limit risk of loss by entering into contracts that provide for net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty
default is limited to the amount of any unrecognized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair value) at the date of default. We do not enter into derivative financial contracts for trading purposes. We do not
hedge our net investment in any of our foreign subsidiaries.      We enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge our
market risk exposure associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain monetary assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in a non-functional currency. As these derivative instruments are not
designated as hedges, we record the changes in the fair value of such instruments in interest and other income, net on our Consolidated Statements of Income.      Foreign currency exchange contracts used to hedge forecasted product sales are designated as cash flow hedges. These derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign currency
exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified, all with maturities of 18 months or less. At the inception of a hedging relationship and on a quarterly basis, we assess hedge effectiveness on a prospective basis by performing a
regression analysis taking the change in cash flow of the underlying contract and regressing it against the change in cash flow of the hedge instrument. We assess hedge effectiveness on a retrospective basis using a dollar offset approach monthly.
We exclude time value from our effectiveness testing and recognize changes in the time value of the hedge in interest and other income, net. The effective component of the hedge is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) within
stockholders  equity as an unrealized gain or loss on the hedging instrument. When the hedged forecasted transactions occur, the hedges are de-designated and the
        
   96   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
unrealized gains and losses are reclassified into product sales. The majority of gains and losses related to the hedged forecasted transactions reported in accumulated OCI at December 31,
2009 will be reclassified to product sales within 12 months.      We had notional amounts on foreign currency exchange forward and
option contracts outstanding of $3.45 billion and $2.39 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      The
following table summarizes information about the fair values of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the effect of our
foreign currency exchange contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2009 (in thousands):       

Year Ended December 31, 2009   

Derivatives designated as hedges:   

Net losses recognized in OCI (effective portion)   
      
  $  
  (29,698  
  )    
 
    Net gains reclassified from accumulated OCI into product sales (effective portion)   
      
  $  
  81,694  

Net losses recognized in interest and other income, net (ineffective portion and amounts excluded from effectiveness testing)

$  
  (14,493  
  )    

Derivatives not designated as hedges:   

Net losses recognized in interest and other income, net   
      
  $  
  (11,981  
  )         

5.   
   ACQUISITIONS          CV Therapeutics, Inc.
      On January 1, 2009 we adopted guidance for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any
noncontrolling interests in the acquiree in a business combination. The guidance also provides clarification for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business combination; requires IPR D to be
        
   97   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
capitalized at fair value as intangible assets at the time of acquisition; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination;
expands the definition of what constitutes a business; and requires the acquirer to disclose information that users may need to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. We adopted the provisions of this guidance on a
prospective basis and applied it to our acquisition of CV Therapeutics as discussed below.      On April 15, 2009, we
acquired CV Therapeutics through a cash tender offer under the terms of an agreement and plan of merger entered into in March 2009. CV Therapeutics was a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Palo Alto, California, primarily focused on
the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule drugs for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases. CV Therapeutics had two marketed products, Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina and Lexiscan
injection for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide MPI in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. CV Therapeutics also had several product candidates in clinical development for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic
and pulmonary diseases. We believe the acquisition will provide us with an opportunity to further expand into the cardiovascular therapeutic area.      The CV Therapeutics acquisition was accounted for as a business combination. The results of operations of CV Therapeutics since April 15, 2009 have been included in our Consolidated Statement of
Income, and were not significant. The acquisition date was determined to be April 15, 2009 as that is the date on which we acquired approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of common stock of CV Therapeutics and obtained effective control of
the company. The acquisition was completed two days later on April 17, 2009, at which time CV Therapeutics became a wholly-owned subsidiary.      The aggregate consideration transferred to acquire CV Therapeutics was $1.39 billion, and consisted of cash paid for common stock and other equity instruments at or prior to closing of $1.38 billion and
the fair value of vested stock options assumed of $15.7 million.      In accordance with the merger agreement, the number of
Gilead stock options and restricted stock units into which assumed CV Therapeutics  stock options and restricted stock units were converted was determined based on the option conversion ratio. This conversion ratio was calculated by taking the
per share acquisition price of $20.00 and dividing it by the average closing price of our common stock for the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding (but not including) the closing date of April 17, 2009, which was $46.24 per
share. The fair value of stock options assumed was calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions: market price of $44.54 per share, which was the closing price of our common stock on the acquisition date; expected
term ranging from 0.1 to 5.2 years; risk-free interest rate ranging from 0.1% to 1.7%; expected volatility ranging from 37.4% to 43.2%; and no dividend yield. The fair value of restricted stock units assumed was calculated using the acquisition-date
closing price of $44.54 per share for our common stock.      We included the fair value of vested stock options assumed by us of
$15.7 million in the consideration transferred for the acquisition. There were no vested restricted stock units assumed by us. The estimated fair value of unvested stock options and restricted stock units assumed by us of $11.2 million was not
included in the consideration transferred and is being recognized as stock-based compensation expenses over the remaining future vesting period of the awards.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at
April 15, 2009 (in thousands):       
    During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a balance sheet reclassification which reduced intangible
assets related to IPR D by $41.2 million, reduced our deferred tax liabilities by $16.1 million and increased goodwill by $25.1 million. This reclassification resulted from the discovery of information which affected the initial valuation of
certain of our IPR D intangible assets acquired from CV Therapeutics.       Intangible Assets       A substantial portion of the assets acquired consisted of intangible assets related to CV Therapeutics  two marketed products, Ranexa
and Lexiscan, and CV Therapeutics  IPR D projects. Management determined that the estimated acquisition-date fair values of the intangible assets related to the marketed products and IPR D projects were $951.2 million and $138.9
million, respectively.      Of the $951.2 million of intangible assets related to the marketed products, $688.4 million related to
Ranexa and $262.8 million related to Lexiscan. We have determined that these intangible assets have finite useful lives and will be amortized over their respective useful lives, which we estimated to be the periods over which the associated product
patents will expire as those are the periods over which the intangible assets are expected to contribute to the future cash flows of the related products.      We are amortizing the intangible asset related to Ranexa over its estimated useful life using an amortization rate derived from our forecasted future product sales for Ranexa. We are amortizing the
intangible asset related to Lexiscan over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis. Given that current Lexiscan revenues consist of royalties received from a collaboration partner and we will have limited ongoing access and visibility into
that partner s future sales forecasts, we cannot make a reasonable estimate of the amortization rate utilizing a forecasted product sales approach. The weighted-average amortization period for these intangible assets is approximately ten years.
        
   99   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Of the $138.9 million of intangible assets related to the IPR D projects, $93.4
million related to GS 9667 (formerly CVT-3619), a product candidate in Phase 1 clinical studies for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia. The remaining balance of the intangible assets related to IPR D projects represented various other
in-process projects with no single project comprising a significant portion of the total value. Intangible assets related to IPR D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated R D
efforts. During the period the assets are considered indefinite-lived, they will not be amortized but will be tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances
that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the IPR D projects below their respective carrying amounts. If and when development is complete, which generally occurs if and when regulatory approval to market a product is obtained, the
associated assets would be deemed finite-lived and would then be amortized based on their respective estimated useful lives at that point in time.      The estimated fair value of the intangible assets related to the marketed products and IPR D projects was determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present
value. We estimated the fair value of these intangible assets using a present value discount rate of 9%, which is based on the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with profiles substantially similar to that of CV Therapeutics.
This is comparable to the estimated internal rate of return for CV Therapeutics  operations and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the intangible assets. For the intangible assets related to the IPR D projects,
we compensated for the differing phases of development of each project by probability-adjusting our estimation of the expected future cash flows associated with each project. We then determined the present value of the expected future cash flows
using the discount rate of 9%. The projected cash flows from the IPR D projects were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the projects considering their stages of development; the time and
resources needed to complete the development and approval of the related product candidates; the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound
such as obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.       Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities       The $413.8 million of
deferred tax assets resulting from the acquisition was primarily related to federal and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The $426.9 million of deferred tax liabilities resulting from the acquisition was primarily related to the
difference between the book basis and tax basis of the intangible assets related to the marketed products and IPR D projects. We have concluded that it is more likely than not that we will not realize the benefit from deferred tax assets
related to certain state net operating loss carryforwards. As a result, a valuation allowance of $15.1 million was recorded related to those deferred tax assets. For presentation purposes, the $426.9 million of deferred tax liabilities, all of which
is of a noncurrent nature, has been netted against noncurrent deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.       Convertible Senior
Notes       As a result of the acquisition, we assumed convertible notes from CV Therapeutics consisting of 2.75% senior
subordinated convertible notes due 2012, 3.25% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2013 and 2.0% senior subordinated convertible debentures due 2023. All of these convertible notes were recognized at their fair values at the acquisition date.
In May 2009, we offered to repurchase these convertible notes in consideration for their par value plus accrued interest, as required under the terms of the respective convertible note agreements following the occurrence of a change in control or
fundamental change as defined in the agreements. As of December 31, 2009, substantially all of these convertible notes have been extinguished.         
   100   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Goodwill       The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was $341.9 million, which represents the goodwill amount resulting from the
acquisition. Management believes that the goodwill mainly represents the synergies and economies of scale expected from combining our operations with CV Therapeutics. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. We
recorded the goodwill as an intangible asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in
circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the goodwill below its carrying amount.       Acquisition-Related Transaction
Costs and Restructuring Expenses       We recognized $8.4 million of acquisition-related transaction costs in selling, general
and administrative (SG A) expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009, which consisted primarily of investment banker fees, legal and accounting costs related to the acquisition. In addition, during the second quarter of 2009, we approved
a plan to realize certain synergies between CV Therapeutics and us, re-align our cardiovascular operations and eliminate certain redundancies. The restructuring plan included consolidation and re-alignment of the cardiovascular R D organization,
our exit from certain facilities and the termination of certain contractual obligations. As a result of this restructuring plan, we recorded $26.2 million and $25.7 million in SG A expenses and R D expenses, respectively, in 2009, primarily
related to employee severance, relocation and termination benefits, lease termination costs and other facilities-related expenses. We expect to incur an additional $20.2 million in 2010 bringing the total amount to be incurred in connection with the
significant activities of our restructuring plan to be approximately $38.8 million for employee severance, relocation and termination benefits and $33.3 million for facilities-related expenses.      The following table summarizes the restructuring liabilities accrued for and changes in those amounts during the period (in thousands):
      
     Pro Forma Information       The following unaudited pro forma information presents the combined results of operations of Gilead and CV Therapeutics as if the acquisition of CV Therapeutics had been completed on January 1, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively, with adjustments to give effect to pro forma events that are directly attributable to the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma results do not reflect any operating efficiencies or potential cost savings which may result
from the consolidation of the operations of Gilead and CV Therapeutics. Accordingly, these unaudited pro forma results are presented for illustrative purposes and are not intended to represent or be indicative of the actual results of operations of
the combined company that would have been achieved had the acquisition occurred at the beginning of each period presented, nor are they intended to represent or be indicative of future results of operations.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the unaudited pro forma results of operations (in
thousands):       
     Navitas Assets, LLC
      In May 2008, we executed an asset purchase agreement with Navitas Assets, LLC (Navitas) to acquire all of the assets
related to its cicletanine business. We acquired the exclusive rights to regulatory data and filings for development of cicletanine as a monotherapy for PAH and for other indications in the United States. We are evaluating cicletanine, currently in
Phase 2 clinical trials, as a potential treatment of PAH.      The aggregate consideration transferred for the acquisition was
$10.9 million, and consisted primarily of cash paid. In addition, Navitas is entitled to potential additional purchase consideration, including payments contingent on future achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. These amounts
will be recorded when and if the related contingencies are resolved. The consideration transferred was allocated to IPR D which represents the purchased IPR D program for cicletanine that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had
no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date, and therefore, was expensed upon acquisition within our Consolidated Statement of Income.       Nycomed Limited       In September 2007, we completed the acquisition of Nycomed Limited (Nycomed), a
wholly-owned Irish subsidiary of Germany-based pharmaceutical company, Nycomed GmbH. The Nycomed facility, located in Cork, Ireland, conducted manufacturing and tableting operations for Nycomed GmbH. We transferred certain of our manufacturing
operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to this facility and utilize the site primarily for solid dose tablet manufacturing of existing and future products, as well as product packaging. The Nycomed acquisition has been accounted for as a
business combination. The results of operations of Nycomed since the acquisition date have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Income.      The aggregate consideration transferred for all of Nycomed s common stock was $48.3 million, which consisted of cash paid at closing of $46.6 million, estimated direct transaction costs of $1.0
million and employee-related severance costs of $0.7 million. Employee-related severance costs were capitalized as part of the purchase price, as we established a workforce reduction plan as part of the acquisition transaction. These costs have been
fully paid. The consideration transferred was allocated primarily to property, plant and equipment of $48.5 million with the remaining balance allocated to net working capital.      In connection with the transfer of certain manufacturing operations from our Dublin, Ireland area site to the Cork facility, we finalized
our personnel plan with respect to our Dublin employees and recognized one-time termination benefits of $3.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.         
   102   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

6.   
   INVENTORIES         Inventories
are summarized as follows (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the joint
ventures formed by Gilead and BMS (See Note 9), which are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements, held $667.8 million and $607.7 million in inventory, respectively, of efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient purchased from BMS at
BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz.       

7.   
   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT         Property, plant and equipment are summarized as follows (in thousands):       
    In January 2009, we completed the purchase of an office building and approximately 30 acres
of land located in Foster City, California, for an aggregate purchase price of $140.1 million. Based on the estimated relative fair values, the purchase price was allocated primarily to land of $71.6 million, building of $64.3 million, land
improvements of $2.7 million and office furniture and equipment of $1.1 million.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

8.   
   INTANGIBLE ASSETS         The
following table summarizes the carrying amount of our intangible assets (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the changes in the
carrying amount of goodwill (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes our finite-lived
intangible assets (in thousands):       
    Amortization expense related to intangible assets was
$43.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and was recorded primarily in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $2.8 million and $2.6 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and was recorded primarily in SG A expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income.      As of December 31, 2009, the estimated future amortization expense associated with our intangible assets for each of the five succeeding fiscal years are as follows (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2009, we had indefinite-lived
intangible assets of $138.9 million related to purchased IPR D from our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.         
   104   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

9.   
   COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS         As a result of entering into strategic collaborations from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We review our interests in our investee companies for consolidation and/or appropriate disclosure based on
applicable guidance. As of December 31, 2009, we determined that certain of our investee companies are variable interest entities; however, other than with respect to our joint ventures with BMS, we are not the primary beneficiary and therefore
do not consolidate these investees.       Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        North America       In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS in the United States to develop and commercialize a single tablet regimen containing our Truvada and BMS s Sustiva (efavirenz), which we sell as Atripla. The collaboration is
structured as a joint venture and operates as a limited liability company named Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC, which we consolidate. The ownership interests of the joint venture and thus the sharing of product revenue and
costs reflect the respective economic interests of BMS and us and are based on the proportions of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to efavirenz and Truvada. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the
net selling price of efavirenz, both BMS s and our respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually.      We share marketing and sales efforts with BMS and both parties are obligated to provide equivalent sales force efforts for a minimum number of years. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax reporting and product
distribution for the joint venture. Both parties provide their respective bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients to the joint venture at their approximate market values. In July 2006, the joint venture received approval from the FDA to sell Atripla
in the United States. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into Canada and in October 2007, the joint venture received approval from Health Canada to
sell Atripla in Canada. As December 31, 2009 and 2008, the joint venture held efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient which it purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the U.S. market. These amounts are
included in inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, total assets held by the joint venture were $1.40 billion and $1.07 billion, respectively, and consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable (including intercompany receivables with Gilead) and inventories. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, total liabilities held by the joint venture were $1.03 billion and $548.0 million, respectively, and consisted primarily of
accounts payable (including intercompany payables with Gilead) and other accrued expenses. These asset and liability amounts do not reflect the impact of intercompany eliminations that are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although we are
the primary beneficiary of the joint venture, the legal structure of the joint venture limits the recourse that its creditors will have over our general credit or assets.       Europe       In December 2007, Gilead Sciences Limited (GSL), one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries in Ireland, and BMS entered into a collaboration arrangement to commercialize and distribute Atripla in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland (collectively, the European Territory). The parties
formed a limited liability company which we consolidate, to manufacture Atripla for distribution in the European Territory using efavirenz that it purchases from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European Territory.
We are responsible for product distribution, inventory management and warehousing. Through our local subsidiaries, we have primary responsibility for order fulfillment, collection of receivables, customer relations and handling of sales returns in
all the territories where we co-promote Atripla with BMS. We are also responsible for accounting, financial reporting and tax reporting for the collaboration. In December 2007, the
        
   105   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
European Commission approved Atripla for sale in the European Union. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, efavirenz purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in
the European Territory is included in inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The parties also formed a limited
liability company to hold the marketing authorization for Atripla in Europe. We have primary responsibility for regulatory activities and we share marketing and sales efforts with BMS. In the major market countries, both parties have agreed to
provide equivalent sales force efforts. Revenue and cost sharing is based on the relative ratio of the respective net selling prices of Truvada and efavirenz.       PARI GmbH       As a result of our acquisition of Corus Pharma, Inc. (Corus) in
August 2006, we assumed all rights to the February 2002 development agreement between Corus and PARI GmbH (PARI) for the development of Cayston and development of an inhalation delivery device for this product. Under the terms of
the agreement, we are obligated to pay PARI for services rendered, and subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are obligated to pay certain milestone payments to PARI. In addition, we will make royalty payments based on net sales
of Cayston. The agreement also provided us the right to reduce the royalty rate payable to PARI. In November 2007, we paid PARI $13.5 million to reduce the royalty rate under the agreement. As Cayston had not yet been approved for
commercialization as of December 31, 2009, we recorded this payment in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. In April 2008, pursuant to the February 2002 development agreement, we entered into a commercialization agreement
with PARI which provides for the supply and manufacture of an inhalation delivery device and accessories for use with Cayston. Under the terms of this agreement, we are obligated to pay royalties on future net sales of these products pursuant to the
2002 development agreement.      In February 2010, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Cayston as a treatment to
improve respiratory symptoms in CF patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  ( P. aeruginosa ). Cayston was conditionally approved in Europe and Canada in September 2009.       LG Life Sciences, Ltd.       In November 2007, we entered into a license
agreement with LG Life Sciences, Ltd. (LGLS) to develop and commercialize certain caspase inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases. The agreement granted us commercialization rights to LGLS s caspase inhibitors, including GS 9450
(formerly LB84451). Under the terms of the agreement, our license is worldwide, with the exception of Korea, China and India where LGLS has retained rights. LGLS also retains the right to develop and commercialize caspase inhibitors for ophthalmic
and topical uses worldwide. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we paid a $20.0 million up-front license fee that was recorded in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income as there was no future alternative use for this
technology. The agreement also obligated us to fund a collaborative research program for two years to identify other potential caspase inhibitor drug candidates. In addition, we are obligated to make additional milestone payments of up to $182.0
million upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial objectives. We are also obligated to pay royalties on future net sales of products that are developed and approved in relation to this collaboration.       Parion Sciences, Inc.       In
August 2007, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Parion Sciences, Inc. (Parion) to research, develop and commercialize certain epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) inhibitors for the treatment of pulmonary diseases. The
agreement granted us worldwide commercialization rights to GS 9411
        
   106   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
(formerly P-680), an ENaC inhibitor discovered by Parion, for the treatment of pulmonary diseases, including CF, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and non-CF bronchiectasis. In accordance
with the terms of the agreement, we paid a $5.0 million up-front license fee that was recorded in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income as there was no future alternative use for this technology, and made a $5.0 million investment
in Parion in the form of convertible debt, which was recorded as other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under the collaboration agreement, we will lead all development and commercialization activities and provide funding of full
time equivalent employees for certain research activities. In addition, we are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of certain milestones and pay royalties on future net sales of products that are developed and approved in
relation to this collaboration.       Roche       In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement (the 1996 Agreement) with Roche to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral
oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the 1996 Agreement, Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of
the net revenues that Roche generates from Tamiflu sales, which, in turn, has been subject to reduction for certain defined manufacturing costs.      In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the 1996 Agreement with Roche. The amended agreement provided for the formation of a joint manufacturing committee to review
Roche s manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and its global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United States and a joint supervisory committee to evaluate
Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis in each case, consisting of representatives of Roche and us. Under the amended agreement, we also have the option to provide a specialized sales force to supplement Roche s
marketing efforts in the United States for Tamiflu.      The royalties payable to us on net sales of Tamiflu sold by Roche remain
the same under the amended agreement, which are as follows: (a) 14% of the first $200.0 million in worldwide net sales in a given calendar year; (b) 18% of the next $200.0 million in worldwide net sales during the same calendar year; and
(c) 22% of worldwide net sales in excess of $400.0 million during the same calendar year. The amended agreement revised the provision in the 1996 Agreement relating to the calculation of royalty payments such that in any given calendar
quarter Roche will pay royalties based on the actual royalty rates applicable to such quarter. In addition, under the amended agreement, royalties payable by Roche to us will no longer be subject to a cost of goods sold adjustment that was provided
in the 1996 Agreement. We recorded a total of $392.7 million, $155.5 million and $414.5 million of Tamiflu royalties in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      As a result of our acquisition of CV Therapeutics in April 2009, we assumed all rights to the agreement between CV Therapeutics and Roche under which we have an exclusive worldwide license to Ranexa.
Under the license agreement, we paid an initial license fee and are obligated to make certain payments to Roche upon receipt of the first and second product approvals for Ranexa in any of the following major market countries: France, Germany, Italy,
the United States and the United Kingdom. In January 2006, we received FDA approval for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina and paid $11.0 million to Roche in accordance with the agreement. In July 2008, we received marketing authorization
from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina in all 27 European Union member states and paid $9.0 million to Roche related to this approval. This amount was capitalized as a noncurrent asset on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet and is being amortized over its useful patent life, which is approximately 11 years, expiring in September 2019.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In June 2006, we entered into an amendment to the agreement with Roche related to
Ranexa. This amendment provided us with exclusive worldwide commercial rights to Ranexa for all potential indications in humans. Under the terms of the amendment, we made an upfront payment to Roche and are obligated to make royalty payments to
Roche on worldwide net product sales of any licensed products. In addition, we are obligated to make additional milestone payments upon the achievement of certain regulatory approvals.       Japan Tobacco Inc.       In March 2005, Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco)
granted us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor known as GS 9137, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco retained such rights. Under the terms of the agreement, we
incurred an up-front license fee of $15.0 million which was included in R D expenses in 2005 as there was no future alternative use for this technology. In March 2006, we recorded $5.0 million in R D expenses related to a milestone we
incurred as a result of dosing the first patient in a Phase 2 clinical study and in July 2008, we recorded $7.0 million in R D expenses related to a milestone we paid related to the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 clinical study. We are
obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of other milestones as well as pay royalties on any future product sales arising from this collaboration.       GlaxoSmithKline Inc.       In April 2002, we granted GSK the right to
commercialize Hepsera, our oral antiviral for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories. Under the agreement, we retained rights to Hepsera in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, New
Zealand and Turkey. GSK received exclusive rights to develop Hepsera solely for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in all of its territories, the most significant of which include China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. GSK has full
responsibility for the development and commercialization of Hepsera in its territories. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front license payment of $10.0 million and from 2002 to 2004, we received an aggregate of $17.0 million in
milestone payments related to the commercial approvals of Hepsera in various countries. In 2006, we received an aggregate of $10.0 million in milestone payments from GSK for the achievement by GSK of four consecutive quarters of Hepsera gross sales
exceeding $75.0 million and the achievement of a certain drug status in China. The up-front license fee and milestone payments had been recorded as deferred revenue with a total of $3.4 million and $3.6 million being amortized into contract revenue
in 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the first quarter of 2009, we terminated our supply agreement with GSK to allow GSK to assume all manufacturing and supply obligations for Hepsera for use in the GSK territories. As a result of the termination
of this supply agreement, we recognized the remaining $24.5 million balance of deferred revenue into contract revenue as of March 31, 2009. Under the terms of the agreement, GSK is also required to pay us royalties on net sales that GSK
generates from sales of Hepsera and Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (GSK s hepatitis product) in the GSK territories. We recorded $32.4 million, $31.7 million and $28.8 million of royalty revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      In November 2009, we entered into an agreement with GSK to commercialize Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in five countries
in Asia. Under the agreement, we will retain exclusive rights for commercialization of Viread for chronic hepatitis B in Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. In China, GSK will have exclusive commercialization rights for Viread for chronic
hepatitis B. Each company will pay royalties to the other on sales of Viread for chronic hepatitis B in their respective Asian territories.      As a result of our acquisition of Myogen, Inc. (Myogen) in November 2006, we assumed all rights to the March 2006 license and distribution and supply agreements between Myogen and GSK. Under the
terms of the license agreement, we sublicensed to GSK exclusive rights to market ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical      ingredient in
Letairis, which is marketed under the name Volibris in territories outside the United States) for
        
   108   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
PAH in territories outside of the United States. We received an up-front payment of $20.0 million and, subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are eligible to receive total
additional milestone payments of $80.0 million. In addition, we will receive royalties based on net sales of Volibris in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for Volibris
in the GSK territories during the term of the license agreement. We will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Letairis and
Volibris in the United States, Canada and the European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional development activities in its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the
licensed field and each party will pay its share of external costs associated with such joint development. In 2007, we received a milestone payment of $11.0 million from GSK for validation by the EMEA of the marketing authorization application for
Volibris, and in 2008, we received a $20.0 million milestone payment related to the European Commission marketing authorization approval for Volibris. The milestone and up-front license payments have been recorded as deferred revenue and are being
amortized into contract revenue over the remaining period for which we have performance obligations under the agreement, which is approximately six years. We amortized $8.3 million, $5.0 million and $3.9 million to contract revenue in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.       Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA       As a result of our acquisition of CV Therapeutics in April 2009, we assumed all rights to the September 2008 license agreement between CV
Therapeutics and Menarini under which we granted Menarini exclusive rights to Ranexa in the European Union and other specified countries for consideration including an upfront payment of $70.0 million. The licensed territory encompasses 68
countries, including the 27 member states of the European Union, Russia and the other member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, and select countries in Central and South America. The term of the agreement expires on a
country-by-country basis upon the later to occur of ten years from the first commercial sale date of Ranexa in the country or the expiration of the last valid claim in the licensed patents covering ranolazine in the country.      In addition, Menarini may make additional payments and investments for commercial and development milestones and promotional and detailing
commitments. The commercial milestones are primarily related to the achievement of certain sales levels and development milestones are related to the approval of Ranexa in Europe for certain additional indications that are jointly developed. The
agreement provides mechanisms for the parties to collaborate and share costs of joint development programs for Ranexa in which Menarini elects to participate. We are also entitled to receive royalties on sales of Ranexa in the territories covered by
the agreement.       Astellas US LLC and Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (Astellas), as applicable       As a result of our acquisition of CV Therapeutics in April 2009, we assumed all rights to the July 2000 collaboration agreement between CV
Therapeutics and Astellas US LLC to develop and market second generation pharmacologic MPI stress agents. Under this agreement, Astellas received exclusive North American rights to Lexiscan and to a backup compound. In April 2008, we received FDA
approval of Lexiscan for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in MPI studies in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. Under the terms of the agreement, the product is marketed by Astellas and was launched in June 2008 in the United
States. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $19.7 million of royalty revenue from Astellas related to sales of Lexiscan.      Since 1991, we have had an agreement with Astellas Pharma US, Inc. related to rights to market AmBisome. Under the terms of the agreement, Astellas is responsible for promotion of AmBisome in the United
States and Canada. We have exclusive marketing rights to AmBisome in the rest of the world, subject to our
        
   109   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
obligation to pay royalties to Astellas in connection with sales in significant markets in Asia. We receive royalties from Astellas  sales of AmBisome in the Unites States and Canada. In
connection with this agreement, we recorded royalty revenues of $9.4 million, $9.5 million and $10.4 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       Tibotec Pharmaceuticals       In July 2009, we entered into a license and
collaboration agreement with Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson, to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada and Tibotec s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
inhibitor, TMC278 (25 mg rilpivirine hydrochloride), which is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. Under the agreement, Tibotec granted us an exclusive license to the combination product for administration to adults in a once daily, oral dosage
form, worldwide excluding developing world countries and Japan. Neither party is restricted from combining its drug products with any other drugs.      In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we will reimburse up to  71.5 million (approximately $100.0 million) of development costs incurred by Tibotec for TMC278 through December 2011, and
we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and formulate the combination product, including the completion of bioequivalence studies. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $52.4 million in reimbursable R D
expenses incurred by Tibotec in the development of TMC278. Tibotec is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop TMC278 and obtain its approval in the United States and Europe. We will manufacture the combination product and assume
the lead role in registration, distribution and, subject to regulatory approval, commercialization of the combination product in the licensed countries. Tibotec will have the right to detail the combination product in the licensed countries, and, at
its option, can request that it be the distributor of the combination product in a limited number of such countries. The price of the combination product is expected to be the sum of the price of Truvada and the price of TMC278 purchased separately.
We expect to recognize product sales revenue from future sales of the combination product if and when it is approved. The cost of TMC278 to be purchased by us from Tibotec for the combination product will approximate the market price of TMC278, less
a specified percentage of up to thirty percent.       

10.   
   LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS          Convertible
Senior Notes       In April 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2011 and $650.0
million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2013 in a private placement pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625%,
respectively. Debt issuance costs of $23.8 million in connection with the issuance of the Notes were recorded in other noncurrent assets and are being amortized to interest expense on a straight-line basis over the contractual terms of the Notes.
The 2011 Notes may be convertible into our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 25.8048 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2011 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.75 per share). The 2013 Notes
may be convertible into our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 26.2460 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2013 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.10 per share). The Notes may be converted,
subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after September 30, 2006 if the closing price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the last 30 consecutive trading day
period of the previous quarter is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price per share, 2) if we make specified distributions to holders of our common stock or if specified corporate transactions occur, or 3) during the last month prior to
maturity of the applicable Notes. Upon conversion, a holder would
        
   110   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the note or (ii) the conversion value for such note. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, we may also
deliver, at our option, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, we may be required to provide a make whole
premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100%
of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any.      As a result of adopting guidance
relating to the Notes, we bifurcated the conversion option of the Notes from the debt instrument, classified the conversion option in equity and are accreting the resulting debt discount as interest expense. The following table summarizes
information about the equity and liability components of the Notes (in thousands):       
    Total interest
expense recognized for the Notes was $64.6 million, $61.5 million and $58.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the effective interest rate on the liability component of the
2011 and 2013 Notes was 5.7% and 5.8%, respectively. If the notes were converted as of December 31, 2009, the if-converted value would exceed the principal amounts of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes by $75.8 million and $88.2 million,
respectively.      Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, we purchased convertible note hedges in private transactions at a
cost of $379.1 million to cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 33.8 million shares of our common stock at strike prices that correspond to the initial conversion prices of the Notes. If the market value per share of our common
stock at the time of conversion of the Notes is above the strike price of the applicable convertible note hedges, we are entitled to receive from the counterparties in the transactions cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and
common stock, at our option, for the excess of the then market price of the common stock over the strike price of the convertible note hedges. The convertible note hedges will terminate upon the maturity of the related Notes or when none of the
related Notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. We also sold warrants to acquire 33.8 million shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, in private transactions and received net proceeds of
$235.5 million. If the market value of our common stock at the time of the exercise of the applicable warrants exceeds their respective strike prices, we will be required to net settle in cash or shares of our common stock, at our option, with the
respective counterparties for the value of the warrants in excess of the warrant strike prices. The maximum number of shares of common stock that could be issued by us should we choose to net share settle the warrants is 35.5 million shares, or
105% of the underlying share amount, which we have reserved for potential future issuance. The warrants have strike prices of $50.80 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2011) and $53.90 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2013) and are
exercisable only on the respective expiration dates. Taken together, the convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price
to $50.80 per share for the 2011 Notes and $53.90 per share for the 2013 Notes. The net cost of $143.7 million of the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions was recorded in stockholders  equity.      Because we have the choice of settling the convertible note hedges and warrants in cash or shares of our stock, and these contracts meet all
of the applicable criteria for equity classification, the cost of the convertible
        
   111   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
note hedges and net proceeds from the sale of the warrants are classified in stockholders  equity. In addition, because both of these contracts are classified in stockholders  equity
and are indexed to our own common stock, they are not accounted for as derivatives. We also recorded a deferred tax asset of $148.9 million in APIC for the effect of the future tax benefits related to the convertible note hedges.      Contemporaneously with the closing of the sale of the Notes, a portion of the net proceeds from the Notes  issuance and the proceeds of
the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 16.7 million shares of our common stock for $544.9 million under our 2006 stock repurchase program.      The terms of the Notes agreements require us to comply with certain covenants. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all such covenants.      As a result of the CV Therapeutics acquisition, we assumed certain convertible notes from CV Therapeutics (see Note 5). As of
December 31, 2009 substantially all of these convertible notes have been extinguished.       Credit Facility       In December 2005, we entered into an agreement with a syndicate of banks for a five year $500.0 million senior credit facility. The $500.0
million facility consisted of an uncollateralized $300.0 million term loan, which was entered into by Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation (GBIC), one of our wholly-owned Irish subsidiaries, and an uncollateralized $200.0 million revolving
credit facility, which was entered into by the U.S. parent company, Gilead Sciences, Inc. The proceeds from the term loan were used by GBIC in December 2005 to facilitate a cash dividend distribution of $280.0 million to the U.S. parent company as
part of the repatriation of our qualified foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA). During the year ended December 31, 2007, we repaid $99.0 million, which represented the remaining amounts due under the
term loan at which time, the term loan was terminated.      Under the terms of the revolving credit facility entered into in
December 2005, interest accrued and was payable at a rate of LIBOR plus a tiered contractual rate of up to 50 basis points, and was payable quarterly in arrears. The U.S. parent company could prepay any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued
interest on the prepaid principal, at any time in whole or in part without penalty or premium. Any outstanding interest or principal at December 2010 would be payable on demand. The capacity of the revolving credit facility would increase to a
maximum of $500.0 million as the term loan was repaid. We had the ability to irrevocably cancel any unutilized portion of the revolving credit facility, in whole or in part. Any proceeds obtained under the revolving credit facility were expected to
be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit up to $25.0 million. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries was the guarantor.      In December 2007, we along with GBIC, entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which superseded the existing revolving credit
agreement above, with a syndicate of banks to increase the credit facility to $1.25 billion. The credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit. Loans under the credit agreement bear interest at either LIBOR
plus a margin ranging from 20 basis points to 32 basis points or the base rate, as described in the credit agreement. We may reduce the commitments and may prepay loans under the credit agreement in whole or in part without penalty, subject to
certain conditions. The credit agreement will terminate and all amounts owing thereunder shall be due and payable in December 2012. In connection with the credit agreement, the U.S. parent company entered into an agreement guaranteeing the
obligations of GBIC under the credit agreement. In April 2009, in connection with the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, we borrowed $400.0 million under the credit agreement to partially fund the acquisition. As of December 31, 2009, we have
repaid the $400.0 million under this credit agreement. We expect to use the
        
   112   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
proceeds of any loans under the credit agreement for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2009, we had $4.2 million letters of credit outstanding
under the credit agreement. We are required to comply with certain covenants under the credit agreement and as of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all such covenants.       

11.   
   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES          Lease
Arrangements       We have entered into various long-term non-cancelable operating leases for equipment and facilities. We lease
facilities in Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; Boulder and Westminster, Colorado; Seattle, Washington; the Dublin area of Ireland and the London area of the United Kingdom. We also have operating leases for
sales, marketing and administrative facilities in Europe, Canada and Australia. Our leases expire on various dates between 2010 and 2029. Our leases in Ireland and the United Kingdom are for 25 and 10 years, respectively, with rent subject to
increase on the fifth anniversary of the respective commencement dates. Many of our facility leases have options to renew. We also have leases for three corporate aircraft, with varying terms, with renewal options upon expiration of the lease terms.
     Lease expense under our operating leases were approximately $37.3 million, $29.3 million and $28.8 million during the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Aggregate non-cancelable future minimum rental payments under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):       
     Legal Proceedings       On May 12, 2006, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California executed orders dismissing in its entirety and
with prejudice the fourth consolidated amended complaint associated with a putative class action lawsuit against the Company and six current and former executives our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; President and Chief Operating Officer;
former Executive Vice President of Operations; Executive Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer; Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Senior Vice President of Research alleging that the defendants
violated federal securities laws, specifically Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated by the SEC, by making certain alleged false and misleading statements. The plaintiffs appealed the
dismissal. On August 11, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the district court s decision and remanded the case to the district court. On February 6, 2009, we filed a petition for a writ of
certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States, requesting that the court review the judgment of the court of appeals. In April 2009, the Supreme Court denied the petition. The case continues before the district court. On February 13,
2009, we filed a further motion to dismiss the fourth consolidated amended complaint on alternative grounds. On June 3, 2009, the district court granted in part and denied in part our motion to dismiss and gave plaintiffs leave to amend the
complaint. On July 10, 2009, plaintiffs filed a fifth consolidated amended complaint. We filed a motion to dismiss the fifth consolidated amended complaint, which the district court heard on October 9, 2009. In an order dated
October 13, 2009, the court granted in part and denied in part our motion to
        
   113   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
dismiss. With respect to the Section 10(b) claim, the court denied the motion as to Gilead and two of the six individual defendants; the court granted the motion as to four of the individual
defendants. As to the Section 20(a) claim, the court denied the motion as to all of the individual defendants; therefore, all defendants remain in the case. On November 16, 2009, we filed an answer to the fifth consolidated amended
complaint. The court has scheduled a case management conference for May 14, 2010. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this case, and as such, no amounts have been accrued related to the outcome of this case.      On August 12, 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
requesting documents regarding the development, marketing and sales of Ranexa. We have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry, and as such, no
amounts have been accrued related to the outcome of this inquiry.      We are also a party to various other legal actions that
arose in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that any of these other legal actions will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position or results of operations.       Other Commitments       In the
normal course of business, we enter into various firm purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory related items. As of December 31, 2009, these commitments for the next four years were approximately
$820.1 million in 2010, $127.6 million in 2011, $121.5 million in 2012, and $48.7 million in 2013. The amounts related to active pharmaceutical ingredients only represent minimum purchase requirements. Actual payments for the purchases related to
these active pharmaceutical ingredients were $1.03 billion, $1.04 billion and $548.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      During 2009, we terminated our prior agreements to purchase three aircraft to be constructed for delivery in 2010 and 2013.       

12.   
   STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY          Stock
Repurchase Programs       In March 2006, our Board of Directors (Board) authorized a program for the repurchase of our common
stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion over a two-year period through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions
or similar arrangements. In April 2006, we repurchased and retired 16,734,000 shares of our common stock at $32.57 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $544.9 million. In May and June 2007, we repurchased and retired an aggregate of
11,228,656 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $40.51 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $454.9 million. The 2006 stock repurchase program expired in March 2008.      In October 2007, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $3.00 billion through open
market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This repurchase plan expires in December 2010. In
2007, we repurchased and retired 705,600 shares of our common stock at $46.28 per share for an aggregate of $32.7 million under the $3.00 billion stock repurchase program.       
  
   114   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In February 2008, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a
financial institution to repurchase $500.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of this accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $500.0 million to the financial institution to settle the initial purchase
transaction and received 9,373,548 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.34 per share. In June 2008, upon maturity of the agreement and in accordance with the share delivery provisions of the agreement, we received an additional 239,612
shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the average purchase price of our common stock from the
accelerated share repurchase was $52.01 per share.      We accounted for the accelerated share repurchase as two separate
transactions: (a) as shares of common stock acquired in a treasury stock transaction recorded on the transaction date and (b) as a forward contract indexed to our own common stock. As such, we accounted for the 9,373,548 shares that we
received as a repurchase of our common stock and retired those shares immediately for net income per share purposes. The 239,612 additional shares that we received upon maturity of the contract in June 2008 were also recorded in stockholders 
equity. We determined that the forward contract indexed to our own common stock met all of the applicable criteria for equity classification, and therefore, the contract was not accounted for as a derivative.      In October 2008, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution to repurchase $750.0 million of our
common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $750.0 million to settle the initial purchase transaction and received 14,874,519 shares of our common stock at an initial price of $50.42
per share. In March 2009, upon termination of the agreement and in accordance with the share delivery provisions of the agreement, we received an additional 1,356,337 shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume
weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the total number of shares repurchased and retired under this accelerated share repurchase agreement was 16,230,856 shares at
an average purchase price of $46.21 per share. The accounting for this accelerated share repurchase was consistent with that of our previous accelerated share repurchase.      In 2008, in addition to the common stock repurchased under the two accelerated share repurchase transactions, we repurchased and retired 14,696,449 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price
of $48.94 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $719.3 million through open market transactions.      In 2009, in addition
to the additional shares that we received under the accelerated share repurchase agreement completed in March 2009, we repurchased and retired 21,845,929 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $45.69 per share, for an aggregate
purchase price of $998.1 million through open market transactions. As of December 31, 2009, we completed share repurchases under our $3.00 billion stock repurchase program.      We use the par value method of accounting for our stock repurchases. Under the par value method, common stock is first charged with the par
value of the shares involved. The excess of the cost of shares acquired over the par value is allocated to APIC based on an estimated average sales price per issued share with the excess amounts charged to retained earnings. As a result of our stock
repurchases in 2007, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $26.9 million and charged $460.8 million to retained earnings. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2008, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $95.8 million
and charged $1.88 billion to retained earnings. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2009, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $61.7 million and charged $940.8 million to retained earnings.      In January 2010, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open
market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or
        
   115   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This repurchase plan expires in January 2011.       Preferred Stock       We have
5,000,000 shares of authorized preferred stock issuable in series. Our Board is authorized to determine the designation, powers, preferences and rights of any such series. We have designated 800,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock for potential issuance under our November 1994 rights agreement with BNY Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), as amended (the Rights Plan). There was no preferred stock outstanding as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008.       Rights Plan       The Rights Plan provides for the distribution of a preferred stock purchase right as a dividend for each share of our common stock. The purchase rights are not currently exercisable. Under certain
conditions involving an acquisition or proposed acquisition by any person or group of 15% or more of our common stock, the purchase rights permit the holders (other than the 15% holder) to purchase our common stock at a 50% discount from the market
price at that time, upon payment of a specified exercise price per purchase right. In addition, in the event of certain business combinations, the purchase rights permit the purchase of the common stock of an acquirer at a 50% discount from the
market price at that time. Under certain conditions, the purchase rights may be redeemed by the Board in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.0025 per purchase right. The purchase rights have no voting privileges and are attached to and
automatically trade with our common stock.      In October 1999, October 2003 and May 2006, the Board approved amendments to
the Rights Plan. The first amendment provided, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $15 to $100 and an extension of the term of the plan from November 2004 to October 2009. The second
amendment provides, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $100 to $400 and an extension of the term of the Rights Plan to October 2013. The third amendment was a clarifying amendment entered
into in connection with an increase in the designated number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for potential issuance under the Rights Plan in May 2006.       Stock Option Plans       In May 2004, our stockholders approved and we adopted
the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2004 Plan). Stock options under the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NeXstar), Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Triangle), Corus, Myogen and CV Therapeutics stock option plans, which we assumed
as a result of the acquisitions of NeXstar, Triangle, Corus, Myogen and CV Therapeutics have been converted into options to purchase our common stock effective with the closing of the respective acquisitions. The 2004 Plan is a broad based incentive
plan that allows for awards to be granted to our employees, directors and consultants. The 2004 Plan provides for option grants designated as either non-qualified or incentive stock options. Prior to January 1, 2006, we granted both
non-qualified and incentive stock options, but all stock options granted after January 1, 2006 have been non-qualified stock options. Under the 2004 Plan, employee stock options generally vest over five years, are exercisable over a period not
to exceed the contractual term of ten years from the date the stock options are issued and are granted at prices not less than the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. Stock option exercises are settled with common stock from the
2004 Plan s previously authorized and available pool of shares. In May 2009, our stockholders approved an amendment to the 2004 Plan to increase the number of shares authorized for issuance under the plan by 20,000,000 shares of our common
stock.         
   116   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In connection with the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, we assumed CV Therapeutics 
1994 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated, 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, 2000 Nonstatutory Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, and 2004
Employee Commencement Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (collectively, the CV Therapeutics Plans). The majority of options that were issued and outstanding under the CV Therapeutics Plans as of April 15, 2009 were converted into options
to purchase approximately 1.8 million shares of our common stock and remain subject to their original terms and conditions. There are no shares available for future grant under the CV Therapeutics Plans.      As of December 31, 2009, a total of 121,594,183 shares of common stock have been authorized for grant and 56,075,208 shares remain
available for future grant under the 2004 Plan.      The following table summarizes activity under our stock option plans. All
option grants presented in the table had exercise prices not less than the fair value of the underlying common stock on the grant date (shares in thousands):       
    The total intrinsic
value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $379.8 million, $551.7 million and $606.0 million, respectively. The total fair value of stock options that vested during the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $162.9 million, $169.2 million and $193.2 million, respectively.      As of December 31, 2009,
the number of options outstanding that are expected to vest, net of estimated future option forfeitures was 19,319,129 with a weighted-average exercise price of $39.87 per share, an aggregate intrinsic value of $106.7 million and a weighted-average
remaining contractual life of 7.7 years. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2009 were $1.13 billion and $1.01 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the
weighted-average remaining contractual life for options outstanding and options exercisable were 5.8 and 4.9 years, respectively.      As of December 31, 2009, there was $347.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.7 years.         
   117   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Awards       In January 2007, we granted 369,680 performance-based share awards (the 2007 performance shares) under the 2004 Plan. These awards were
divided into three tranches for both vesting and performance measurement purposes. Subject to our achievement of specified market and performance goals relative to a pre-determined peer group, these awards will vest over a three-year period. The
actual number of shares of our common stock that we will ultimately issue will be calculated by multiplying the number of performance shares by a payout percentage ranging from 0% to 200%. Performance shares will vest only when a committee (or
subcommittee) of our Board has determined that we have achieved our specified market and performance goals. The fair value of the 2007 performance shares is estimated at grant date using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology. Stock-based
compensation expenses for these performance shares is recognized over the requisite service periods using a straight-line expense attribution approach reduced for forfeitures. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the 2007 performance shares
was $34.80 per share.      In January 2008 and 2009, we granted 219,690 and 426,305 performance-based share awards (the 2008
performance shares and the 2009 performance shares, respectively) with terms substantially similar to the 2007 performance shares, except that there was a single three-year performance measurement and vesting period for each of the 2008 performance
shares and 2009 performance shares. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the 2008 performance shares and 2009 performance shares was $56.61 and $61.89 per share, respectively, for the 2008 and 2009 performance shares.      We recognized $14.9 million, $7.5 million and $7.8 million of stock-based compensation expenses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
relating to these performance shares.      During 2009 we granted 1,259,808 time-based restricted stock awards to employees under
the 2004 Plan. These awards vest annually over a five-year period. We recognized $6.5 million of stock-based compensation expenses in 2009 relating to these time-based awards.      We have also granted performance-based restricted stock awards to certain of our employees under the 2004 Plan. The vesting of these
awards is subject to the achievement of specified performance goals. The number of these awards issued to date has not been significant.       Employee Stock Purchase Plan       Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (ESPP), employees can purchase
shares of our common stock based on a percentage of their compensation subject to certain limits. The purchase price per share is equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of our common stock on the offering date or the purchase date. The
ESPP offers a two-year look-back feature as well as an automatic reset feature that provides for an offering period to be reset to a new lower-priced offering if the offering price of the new offering period is less than that of the current offering
period. ESPP purchases are settled with common stock from the ESPP s previously authorized and available pool of shares. During 2009, 932,447 shares were issued under the ESPP for $34.9 million. A total of 33,280,000 shares of common stock have
been reserved for issuance under the ESPP, and there were 7,677,896 shares available for issuance under the ESPP as of December 31, 2009.      As of December 31, 2009, there was $15.5 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the ESPP, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average period of 1.0 years.
        
   118   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

13.   
   STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION         The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expenses included in our Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands):       
    During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we capitalized $11.4 million, $9.9 million and
$9.8 million of stock-based compensation costs to inventory, respectively.      Stock-based compensation is recognized as expense
over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Income using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for non-vested stock options granted prior to January 1, 2006, and using the straight-line expense attribution
approach for stock options granted after our adoption of new guidance for share-based payments to employees and directors on January 1, 2006. As stock-based compensation expenses related to stock options recognized on adoption of the new
guidance is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, gross expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The guidance requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated forfeitures based on our historical experience. Prior to the adoption of this guidance, pro forma information that was required to be disclosed included forfeitures as they occurred. As a result
of the guidance adopted on January 1, 2006, we only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in APIC if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In
addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction through the Consolidated Statements of Income rather than through APIC.         
   119   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Valuation Assumptions       Fair values of awards granted under our stock option plans and ESPP were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes option
valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of
highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and expected award life. We used the following assumptions to calculate the estimated fair value of the awards:       
    The fair value
of stock options granted was calculated using the single option approach. We use a blend of historical volatility along with implied volatility for traded options on our common stock to determine our expected volatility. The expected term of
stock-based awards represents the weighted-average period the awards are expected to remain outstanding. We estimate the weighted-average expected term based on historical cancellation and historical exercise data related to our stock options as
well as the contractual term and vesting terms of the awards. The risk-free interest rate is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the stock-based awards. The dividend yield is based on our history and expectation of
dividend payouts.       

14.   
   COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)         Comprehensive income (loss) comprises net income and certain changes in stockholders  equity that are excluded from net income, such as changes in the fair value of our outstanding effective cash flow hedges, changes in unrealized
gains and losses on our available-for-sale securities and changes in our cumulative foreign currency translation account. Comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is included in our Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders  Equity. The components of comprehensive income (loss) are shown net of related taxes where the underlying assets or liabilities are held in jurisdictions that are expected to generate a future tax benefit or
liability.         
   120   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following reclassifications were recorded in connection with net realized gains
(losses) on sales of securities and cash flow hedges that were previously included in comprehensive income (loss) (in thousands):       
    The balance of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, as reported on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets consists of the following components (in thousands):       

15.   
   DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION         We operate in one business segment, which primarily focuses on the development and commercialization of human therapeutics for life threatening diseases. All products are included in one segment, because
our major products, Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera, and AmBisome, which together accounted for substantially all of our total product sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, have similar economic and other
characteristics, including the nature of the products and production processes, type of customers, distribution methods and regulatory environment.         
   121   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Product sales consist of the following (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes total revenues from
external customers and collaboration partners by geographic region (in thousands). Product sales and product-related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on ship-to location. Royalty and non-product related contract revenue are
attributed to countries based on the location of the collaboration partner.       
    At December 31, 2009, the net book value of our
property, plant and equipment in the United States, Ireland and Canada was $510.0 million, $115.3 million and $57.0 million, respectively, which comprised approximately 97% of the total net book value of our property, plant and equipment. At
December 31, 2008, the net book value of our property, plant and equipment in the United States, Ireland and Canada was $353.4 million, $102.6 million and $57.5 million, respectively, which comprised approximately 97% of the total net book
value of our property, plant and equipment.         
   122   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes revenues from each of our customers who individually
accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues (as a % of total revenues):       
     
    The
provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):       
    Foreign pre-tax income was $1.33 billion, $0.90 billion and $0.74 billion during the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The cumulative unremitted foreign earnings that are considered to be permanently invested outside the United States and for which no U.S. taxes have been provided, were approximately $3.19 billion
and $1.94 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The residual U.S. tax liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $1.14 billion and $0.68 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     The difference between the provision for income taxes and the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory income
tax rate to income before provision for income taxes is as follows (in thousands):       
       
   123   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):       
    The valuation allowance increased (decreased) by $1.1 million, $(23.5) million and $0.3 million for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In April 2009, through the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, we established a valuation allowance of $15.1 million against the deferred tax asset related to California and other state
net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2009, upon integration of CV Therapeutics, we have concluded that it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefit from the deferred tax assets related to certain state net
operating loss carryforwards, and therefore, we released the related valuation allowance resulting in an income tax benefit of approximately $14.0 million.      At December 31, 2009, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $923.9 million. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will start to expire in 2010, if not utilized.
We also had federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $24.9 million which will start to expire in 2010, if not utilized. In addition, we had state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.01 billion and $6.3
million, respectively. The state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will start to expire in 2013 and 2017, respectively, if not utilized.      Utilization of net operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations provided in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state
provisions. This annual limitation may result in the expiration of the net operating losses (NOLs) and credits before utilization.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For federal income tax purposes, the statute of limitations is open for 2003 and onward. For certain acquired entities, the statute
of limitations is open for all years from inception due to our utilization of their NOLs and credits carried over from prior years. For California income tax purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for all years.         
   124   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are
currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant
disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.
     As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had total federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits of $93.3 million and
$119.3 million, respectively, including interest of $5.4 million and $10.1 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $74.7 million and $111.1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, if recognized, would reduce
our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. We have continued to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Income.      In 2009, we reached agreement with the IRS on several issues related to the examinations of our federal income tax returns for 2003 through
2007. We also amended our California income tax returns for 2003 through 2007 based on the resolution of certain tax positions with the IRS. As a result, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by $76.2 million in 2009.      As of December 31, 2009, we believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $5.0
million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the IRS and other tax authorities around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a
reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authorities.      The following is a
rollforward of our total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):       

17.   
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS         We maintain a retirement savings plan under which eligible employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Gilead Plan). Under the Gilead Plan, employees may contribute
up to 60% of their eligible annual compensation, subject to IRS plan limits. We make matching contributions under the Gilead Plan. In 2009 and 2008, we contributed up to 50% of an employee s contributions up to an annual maximum match of
$5,000. In 2007, we contributed up to 50% of an employee s first 6% of contributions up to an annual maximum match of $3,500. Our total matching contribution expense
        
   125   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
under the Gilead Plan for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $10.2 million, $7.8 million and $4.5 million, respectively.      We maintain a deferred compensation plan under which our directors and key employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes. The
deferred compensation plan is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan which is not subject to the qualification requirements under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Compensation deferred after December 31, 2004 is subject to
the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, officers and other senior grade level employees may contribute up to 70% of their annual salaries and up to 100% of their annual bonus while directors may contribute
up to 100% of their annual retainer fee. Amounts deferred by participants are deposited with a rabbi trust and are recorded in other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Beginning in 2004, directors may also elect to receive all or
a portion of their annual cash retainer in phantom shares, which gives the participant the right to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of shares over a specified period of time and which will be payable in shares of our
common stock (with fractional shares paid out in cash) as established by the plan administrator. As of December 31, 2009, we had 25,795 phantom shares outstanding. Participants can elect one of several distribution dates available under the
plan at which they will receive their deferred compensation payment.       
    In
January 2010, our Board authorized a new program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other
means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. This repurchase plan expires in January 2011.      In February 2010, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Cayston as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in CF patients with  P. aeruginosa .       
  
   126   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

19.   
   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)         The following amounts are in thousands, except per share amounts:       

(1)  
  In the second quarter of 2008, we recognized a $10.9 million charge for purchased IPR D associated with our acquisition of all of the assets of Navitas related to
its cicletanine business.         

(2)  
  On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for our 2011 Notes and our 2013 Notes on a retrospective basis. The guidance required us to bifurcate the conversion option
from the debt instrument by classifying the conversion option in equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. See Note 1.        On January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance for our joint ventures with BMS on a retrospective basis. As a result of adopting this guidance,
we presented the noncontrolling interest on our Consolidated Statements of Income as net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, a component of consolidated net income, on a retrospective basis. See Note 1.         
   127   

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        

(1)  
  Allowances are for doubtful accounts, sales returns, cash discounts and chargebacks.         
       
   128   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

G ILEAD  S CIENCES , I NC .   

By:  
     
  /s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

John C. Martin, Ph.D.          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer         
    POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John C. Martin and Gregg H. Alton, and each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her
name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could
do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN               John C. Martin, Ph.D.    
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  (Principal Executive Officer)    
     
  March 1, 2010   

/s/    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON               Robin L. Washington    
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  (Principal Financial and Accounting   Officer)    
     
  March 1, 2010   

/s/    J AMES  M.
D ENNY               James M. Denny    
      
    Director   
     
  March 1, 2010   

/s/    P AUL 
B ERG               Paul Berg    
      
    Director   
     
  March 1, 2010   

/s/    J OHN  F.
C OGAN               John F. Cogan    
      
    Director   
     
  March 1, 2010   

/s/    E TIENNE  F.
D AVIGNON               Etienne F. Davignon    
      
    Director   
     
  March 1, 2010          
   129   

Table of Contents  

130   

<EX-10.16>
 2
 dex1016.htm
 FORM OF EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT USED UNDER 2004 EIP

Form of employee stock option agreement used under 2004 EIP 

Exhibit 10.16        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.         STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
         RECITALS        A.        Optionee is to render valuable services to the Corporation (or a Related Entity), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out
the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s grant of an option to Optionee.      B.        All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.          NOW, THEREFORE , the Corporation hereby grants an option to Optionee upon the following terms and conditions:         1.          Grant of
Option  .    The Corporation hereby grants to the person identified on attached Schedule I (the  Optionee ) an option to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan. The date on which this option is granted
(the  Grant Date ), the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable under this option (the  Option Shares ), the exercise price payable per share (the  Exercise Price ), the applicable vesting schedule by which this
option shall vest and become exercisable incrementally for the Option Shares (the  Vesting Schedule ) and the date to be used to measure the maximum term of this option (the  Expiration Date ) are also indicated on attached
Schedule I to this Agreement. The option is a non-statutory option under the U.S. federal income tax laws. The remaining terms and conditions governing this option shall be as set forth in this Agreement.         2.          Option Term  .    The
term of this option shall commence on the Grant Date and continue to be in effect until the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date specified in attached Schedule I, unless sooner terminated in accordance with
Paragraph 5 or 6 below.         3.          Limited
Transferability  .                    (a)        This option may be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee s lifetime to a Living Trust. The
assigned portion may only be exercised by the Living Trust. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents to be executed
by the Optionee and the Living Trust as the Corporation may deem appropriate.                    (b)        Except for the limited transferability provided under Paragraph 3(a), this option shall be neither
transferable nor assignable by Optionee other than by will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee s death and may be exercised, during Optionee s lifetime, only by Optionee. However, Optionee may designate one or more persons as the
beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option by completing the Corporation s Universal Beneficiary Designation form and filing the completed form with the Corporation s Human Resources Department. Should Optionee file such Universal
Beneficiary Designation form and die while holding this option, then this option shall automatically be transferred to the designated

beneficiary or beneficiaries. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred option subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including (without limitation) the
limited time period during which this option may, pursuant to Paragraph 5 below, be exercised following Optionee s death.         4.          Dates of Exercise  .    This option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in a series
of installments in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I. As the option vests and becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate, and the option shall remain exercisable for the
accumulated installments until the last business day prior to the Expiration Date or any sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5 or 6 below.         5.          Cessation of Service  .    The option term specified in Paragraph 2 above shall
terminate (and this option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:                    (a)        Except as otherwise expressly provided in subparagraphs
(b) through (f) of this Paragraph 5, should Optionee cease to remain in Continuous Service for any reason while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the last business day prior to the
expiration of the three (3)-month period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of
Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last business day prior to the Expiration Date.                    (b)        In the event Optionee ceases Continuous Service by reason of his or her death while this option is
outstanding, then this option may be exercised, for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service, by (i) the personal representative of
Optionee s estate or (ii) the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee s death. However, if Optionee dies while holding this option and has an
effective beneficiary designation in effect for this option at the time of his or her death, then the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have the exclusive right to exercise this option following Optionee s death. Any such right to
exercise this option shall lapse, and this option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the close of business on the last business day prior to the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date
of Optionee s death or (ii) the Expiration Date. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been
exercised.                    (c)        Should Optionee cease Continuous Service by reason of Permanent Disability while this option is
outstanding, then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the last business day prior to the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option
for any or all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of such cessation of Continuous Service. In no event, however, shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last
business day prior to the Expiration Date.         
   2   

(d)        Except as otherwise precluded by Applicable Laws, should (i) Optionee cease Continuous Service after
completion of at least three (3) years of Continuous Service and (ii) the sum of Optionee s attained age and completed years of Continuous Service at the time of such cessation of service equals or exceeds seventy (70) years,
then Optionee shall have until the close of business on the last business day prior to the expiration of the thirty-six (36)-month period measured from the date of such cessation of Continuous Service during which to exercise this option for any or
all of the Option Shares for which this option is vested and exercisable at the time of such cessation of Continuous Service. In no event, however, shall this option be exercisable at any time after the close of business on the last business day
prior to the Expiration Date.                    (e)        The applicable period of post-service exercisability in effect pursuant to the foregoing provisions of
this Paragraph 5 shall automatically be extended by an additional period of time equal in duration to any interval within such post-service exercise period during which the exercise of this option or the immediate sale of the Option Shares acquired
under this option cannot be effected in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, but in no event shall such an extension result in the continuation of this option beyond the close of business on the last business day prior to
the Expiration Date.                    (f)        Should Optionee s Continuous Service be terminated for Cause, or should Optionee engage in any other
conduct, while in Continuous Service or following cessation of Continuous Service, that is materially detrimental to the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), as determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator, then
this option, whether or not vested and exercisable at the time, shall terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.                    (g)        During the limited period of post-service exercisability provided
under this Paragraph 5, this option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares for which this option is at the time vested and exercisable. Except to the extent (if any) specifically authorized by the
Administrator pursuant to an express written agreement with the Optionee, this option shall not vest or become exercisable for any additional Option Shares, whether pursuant to the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I or the
special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 below, following Optionee s cessation of Continuous Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the close of business on the last business day prior to
the Expiration Date, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.         6.          Special Acceleration of Option  .                    (a)        This option, to the extent outstanding at the time of an actual Change in Control but not otherwise fully
exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may be exercised for any
or all of those Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock. However, this option shall   not   become exercisable on such an accelerated basis if and to the extent: (i) this
        
   3   

option is to be assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or is otherwise to continue in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction,
(ii) this option is to be replaced with an economically-equivalent substitute equity award or (iii) this option is to be replaced with a cash retention program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing at the time of
the Change in Control on any Option Shares for which this option is not otherwise at that time vested and exercisable (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares) and provides
for the subsequent vesting and concurrent payout of that spread in accordance with the same Vesting Schedule for those Option Shares as set forth in attached Schedule I. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such cash retention program shall be
established for this option (or any other option granted to Optionee under the Plan) to the extent such program would otherwise be deemed to constitute a deferred compensation arrangement subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A and the
Treasury Regulations thereunder.                    (b)        Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, this option shall terminate and cease to
be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.                    (c)        If this option is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect, then
this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to this option would have been converted in consummation of such
Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at the time. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the
Corporation s outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of this option but subject to
the Administrator s approval, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control, provided such common stock is readily
tradable on an established U.S. securities exchange or market.                    (d)        If this option is assumed or otherwise continued in effect in connection with a Change in Control or
replaced with an economically-equivalent equity award or a cash retention program in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) above, then:                  (i)        the option (or such economically equivalent award) shall vest and become
immediately exercisable for all of the Option Shares or other securities at the time subject to the option (or such award) and may, within the applicable exercise period under Paragraph 5, be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares or other
securities as fully vested shares or securities, or                  (ii)        the balance credited to Optionee under any cash retention program established in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
shall immediately be paid to Optionee in a lump sum, subject to the Corporation s collection of all applicable Withholding Taxes;         
   4   

if, within the period beginning with the execution date of the definitive agreement for the
Change in Control transaction and ending with the earlier of (i) the termination of that definitive agreement without the consummation of such Change in Control or (ii) the expiration of the Applicable Acceleration Period following the
consummation of such Change in Control, Optionee s Continuous Service terminates due to an involuntary termination (other than for death or Permanent Disability) without Cause or a voluntary termination by Optionee due to Constructive
Termination.                    (e)        This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize
or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.         7.          Adjustment in Option Shares  .    Should any change be made to the Common Stock by
reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction, or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration,
or should the value of outstanding shares of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, then
equitable and proportional adjustments shall be made by the Administrator to (i) the total number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price. The adjustments shall be made in such manner as the
Administrator deems appropriate in order to reflect such change and thereby prevent the dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder, and those adjustments shall be final, binding and conclusive upon Optionee and any other person or persons having
an interest in the option. In the event of any Change in Control transaction, the adjustment provisions of Paragraph 6(c) above shall be controlling.         8.          Stockholder Rights  .    The holder of this option shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to
the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.         9.          Manner of Exercising Option  .                    (a)        In order to exercise this option with respect
to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:                  (i)        Execute and deliver to the Corporation a Notice of Exercise as to the Option Shares for which the option is exercised
or comply with such other procedures as the Corporation may establish for notifying the Corporation, either directly or through an on-line internet transaction with a brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect such option exercises, of
the exercise of this option for one or more Option Shares. Copies of the Notice of Exercise may be obtained from the Corporation s intranet at http://gnet/finance/doc/noe.doc.         
   5   

(ii)        Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased shares in one or more of the following forms:              (A)        cash or
check made payable to the Corporation; or              (B)        through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) shall
concurrently provide irrevocable instructions (i) to a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the Corporation s pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to
effect the immediate sale of all or a sufficient portion of the purchased shares so that such brokerage firm can remit to the Corporation, on the settlement date, sufficient funds out of the resulting sale proceeds to cover the aggregate Exercise
Price payable for all the purchased shares plus all applicable Withholding Taxes and (ii) to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm on such settlement date.      Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure is utilized in connection with the option exercise,
payment of the Exercise Price must accompany the Notice of Exercise (or other notification procedure) delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.                  (iii)        Furnish to the Corporation appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the option (if other
than Optionee) have the right to exercise this option.                  (iv)        Make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the
satisfaction of all applicable Withholding Taxes.                    (b)        As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or
any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares (either in paper or electronic form), with the appropriate legends affixed thereto.                    (c)        In no event may this option be exercised for any fractional shares.          10.        Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .
                   (a)        The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to
compliance by the Corporation and Optionee with all Applicable Laws relating thereto.         
   6   

(b)        The inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to
be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been
obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.      11.          Successors and Assigns  .    Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6 above, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit
of and be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate and any beneficiaries of this option designated by Optionee.
     12.          Notices  .    Any notice
required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in
writing and addressed to Optionee at the most current address then indicated for Optionee on the Corporation s employee records or shall be delivered electronically to Optionee through the Corporation s electronic mail system or through an
on-line brokerage firm authorized by the Corporation to effect option exercises through the internet. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or delivery through the Corporation s electronic mail system or upon deposit in
the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.      13.          Construction  .    This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to
the terms of the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall be controlling. All decisions of the Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising
under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this option.      14.          Governing Law  .    The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort
to California s conflict-of-laws rules.      15.          Excess
Shares  .    If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of shares of Common Stock which may without stockholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this option shall be void
with respect to those excess shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. In no event shall the
option be exercisable with respect to any of the excess Option Shares unless and until such stockholder approval is obtained.      16.          Leaves of Absence  .    The following provisions shall govern leaves of absence, except to the extent the application of
such provisions to Optionee would contravene Applicable Laws.         
   7   

(a)       For purposes of this
Agreement, Optionee s Continuous Service shall not be deemed to cease during any period for which Optionee is on a military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation. However, Optionee shall not receive any
Continuous Service credit, for purposes of vesting in this option and the Option Shares pursuant to the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I, for any period of such leave of absence, except to the extent otherwise required by law or
pursuant to the following policy:       

-        Optionee shall receive Continuous Service credit for such
vesting purposes for (i) the first three (3) months of an approved personal leave of absence or (ii) the first seven (7) months of any bona fide leave of absence (other than an approved personal leave), but in no event beyond the
expiration date of such leave of absence.        (b)        In no event shall Optionee be deemed to remain in Continuous Service at any time after the earlier of (i) the expiration date of his or her leave of absence, unless Optionee returns to
active Continuous Service on or before that date, or (ii) the date Optionee s Continuous Service actually terminates by reason of his or her voluntary or involuntary termination or by reason of his or her death or disability.   
  17.          Employment at Will  .    Nothing in
this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to remain in Employee status for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Related Entity employing
Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Employee status at any time for any reason, with or without Cause.      18.          Plan Prospectus  .    The official prospectus for the Plan is available on the Corporation s
intranet at:  http://gnet/ HR/stocks_new.asp . Optionee may also obtain a printed copy of the prospectus by contacting Stock Administration either through the internet at stockadministration@gilead.com or by telephoning 650-522-5517.
     19.          Optionee
Acceptance  .    Optionee must accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement either electronically through the electronic acceptance procedure established by the Corporation or through a written acceptance delivered to
the Corporation in a form satisfactory to the Corporation. In no event shall this option be exercised in the absence of such acceptance.         
   8   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  Gilead Sciences, Inc. has caused this Agreement
to be executed on its behalf by its duly-authorized officer on the day and year first indicated above.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.     

By:   

Title:   

9   

APPENDIX       The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:      A.          Administrator    shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board (or a subcommittee thereof) acting in its capacity as
administrator of the Plan.      B.          Agreement    shall mean this Stock Option Agreement.      C.          Applicable Acceleration Period    shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2(b) of the Plan and shall be
determined on the basis of Optionee s status on the Grant Date.      D.          Applicable Laws    shall mean the legal requirements related to the Plan and the option under applicable provisions of the federal securities laws, state corporate and
state securities laws, the Code, the rules of any applicable Stock Exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, and the rules of any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to options granted to residents therein.      E.          Board    shall mean the Corporation s Board of
Directors.      F.          Cause    shall, for
purposes of Paragraph 5 of the Agreement, mean the termination of Optionee s Continuous Service as a result of Optionee s (i) performance of any act, or failure to perform any act, in bad faith and to the detriment of the Corporation
or a Related Entity; (ii) dishonesty, intentional misconduct, material violation of any applicable Corporation or Related Entity policy, or material breach of any agreement with the Corporation or a Related Entity; or (iii) commission of a
crime involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or physical or emotional harm to any person. However, for purposes of Paragraph 6(d) of the Agreement,   Cause   shall mean the termination of Optionee s Continuous Service as a result of
Optionee s (a) conviction of, a guilty plea with respect to, or a plea of  nolo contendere  to, a charge that Optionee has committed a felony under the laws of the United States or of any State or a crime involving moral turpitude,
including (without limitation) fraud, theft, embezzlement or any crime that results in or is intended to result in personal enrichment to Optionee at the expense of the Corporation or a Related Entity; (b) material breach of any agreement
entered into between Optionee and the Corporation or a Related Entity that impairs the Corporation s or the Related Entity s interest therein; (c) willful misconduct, significant failure to perform his or her duties or gross neglect
of his or her duties; or (d) engagement in any activity that constitutes a material conflict of interest with the Corporation or a Related Entity.      G.          Change in Control    shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following
transactions:        (i)        a merger,
consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation s stockholders,  unless  securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the
        
   A-1   

successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s
outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction;        (ii)        a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets;        (iii)        the closing of any transaction or series
of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a  group  within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of
related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly (whether as a result of a single acquisition or by reason of one or more acquisitions within the
twelve- (12) month period ending with the most recent acquisition) the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty
percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such
transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation s existing stockholders; or   
    (iv)        a change in the composition of the Board
over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (a) have been Board
members continuously since the beginning of such period or (b) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) above who were still in
office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.      In no event, however, shall a Change in Control be deemed
to occur upon a merger, consolidation or other reorganization effected primarily to change the State of the Corporation s incorporation or to create a holding company structure pursuant to which the Corporation becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary
of an entity whose outstanding voting securities immediately after its formation are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s outstanding
voting securities immediately prior to the formation of such entity.      H.          Code    shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      I.           Common Stock    shall mean shares of the Corporation s common stock.         
   A-2   

J.          Constructive
Termination    shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 11(d) of the Plan.      K.          Consultant    shall mean any person, including an advisor, who is compensated by the Corporation or any Related Entity for services performed as a non-employee
consultant;   provided, however,   that the term  Consultant  shall not include non-employee Directors serving in their capacity as Board members. The term  Consultant  shall include a member of the board of directors
of a Related Entity.      L.          Continuous
Service    shall mean the performance of services for the Corporation or a Related Entity (whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, Director or Consultant. For purposes of this
Agreement, Optionee shall be deemed to cease Continuous Service immediately upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) Optionee no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Related
Entity or (ii) the entity for which Optionee is performing such services ceases to remain a Related Entity of the Corporation, even though Optionee may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. In jurisdictions requiring notice
in advance of an effective termination of Optionee s service as an Employee, Director or Consultant, Continuous Service shall be deemed terminated upon the actual cessation of such service to the Corporation or a Related Entity notwithstanding
any required notice period that must be fulfilled before Optionee s termination as an Employee, Director or Consultant can be effective under Applicable Laws.      M.          Corporation    shall mean Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all
or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of Gilead Sciences, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.      N.          Director    shall mean a member of the Board.      O.          Employee    shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), subject
to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.      P.          Exercise Date    shall mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 9 of the Agreement.
     Q.          Exercise Price    shall mean the
exercise price payable per Option Share as specified in attached Schedule I.      R.          Expiration Date    shall mean the date specified on attached Schedule I for measuring the maximum term for which the option may remain outstanding.      S.          Fair Market Value    per share of Common Stock on
any relevant date shall be the closing price per share of Common Stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) on that date, as quoted on the Stock Exchange that is at the time serving as the primary trading market for the Common Stock;
  provided, however,   that if there no reported closing price or
        
   A-3   

closing bid for that date, then the closing price or closing bid, as applicable, for the last trading date on which such closing price or closing bid was quoted shall be determinative of such
Fair Market Value. The applicable quoted price shall be as reported in  The Wall Street Journal  or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable.      T.          Grant Date     shall mean the date on which the option is granted, as specified on attached Schedule I.
     U.          Living Trust     shall mean a
revocable living trust established by Optionee or by Optionee and his or her spouse of which Optionee is the sole trustee (or sole co-trustee with his or her spouse) and sole beneficiary (or sole co-beneficiary with his or her spouse) during
Optionee s lifetime.      V.          1934
Act    shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.      W.          Non-Statutory Option    shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.      X.          Notice of Exercise    shall mean the notice of
option exercise in the form authorized by the Corporation.      Y.          Option Shares    shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option as specified in attached Schedule I.      Z.          Optionee    shall mean the person identified in
attached Schedule I to whom the option is granted pursuant to the Agreement.      AA.       Parent    shall mean a  parent corporation,  whether now existing or hereafter established, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.      BB.       Permanent Disability    shall mean the inability of Optionee to
engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.      CC.       Plan    shall mean the Corporation s 2004 Equity Incentive
Plan, as amended from time to time.      DD.       Related
Entity    shall mean (i) any Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation and (ii) any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation and ending with the corporation in the chain for which
Optionee provides services as an Employee, Director or Consultant, provided each corporation in such chain owns securities representing at least twenty percent (20%) of the total outstanding voting power of the outstanding securities of another
corporation or entity in such chain and there is a legitimate non-tax business purpose for making this option grant to Optionee.         
   A-4   

EE.       Stock
Exchange    shall mean the American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global or Global Select Market or the New York Stock Exchange.      FF.       Subsidiary    shall mean a  subsidiary corporation,  whether now existing or hereafter established, as defined in Section 424(f) of
the Code.      GG.       Vesting Schedule    shall mean the schedule
set forth in attached Schedule I, pursuant to which the option is to vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in a series of installments over Optionee s period of Continuous Service.      HH.       Withholding Taxes    shall mean the federal, state, local and/or
foreign income taxes and the employee portion of the federal, state, local and/or foreign employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in connection with the exercise of the option.         
   A-5   

SCHEDULE I        OPTION GRANT SPECIFICS        Name of Optionee:
 FIRST_NAME   MIDDLE_NAME   LAST_NAME         Grant Date:  DATE 
 MONTH   YEAR         Total Number of Option Shares:  SHARES_GRANTED         Exercise Price:  OPTION_PRICE         Vesting Schedule:        

Shares    
      
   Vest Type   
      
   Full Vest Date   
      
   Expiration Date    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_1    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_1   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_1   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_1    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_2    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_2   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_2   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_2    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_3    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_3   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_3   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_3    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_4    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_4   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_4   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_4    
 
     SHARES_PERIOD_5    
      
   VEST_TYPE_PERIOD_5   
      
   VEST_DATE_PERIOD_5   
      
   EXPIRATION_DATE_PERIOD_5        The option will vest and become exercisable for the number of Option Shares noted on the first line above on the first anniversary of the Grant Date, as noted by the date listed under  Full Vest
Date.  With respect to each subsequent line, the option will vest and become exercisable for the listed Option Shares in equal quarterly installments, beginning one quarter after the Full Vest Date on the previous line and ending on the
corresponding Full Vest Date for the listed Option Shares at issue. Fractional shares will be rounded down to the nearest whole number.   

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.26>
 3
 dex1026.htm
 FORM OF PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT USED UNDER THE 2004 EIP

Form of performance share award agreement used under the 2004 EIP 

Exhibit 10.26           SECTION 16 OFFICERS           GILEAD
SCIENCES, INC.         PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT          RECITALS        A.        The Corporation has implemented the Plan for the purpose of providing incentives to attract, retain and motivate eligible Employees, Directors and Consultants to continue their service
relationship with the Corporation.      B.        Participant is to
render valuable services to the Corporation (or a Related Entity), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s issuance of shares of Common Stock to
Participant thereunder.      C.        All capitalized terms in this
Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix A.       NOW, THEREFORE,  it is hereby agreed as
follows:      1.          Grant of Restricted Stock
Units  .      The Corporation hereby awards to Participant, as of the Award Date indicated below, an award (the  Award ) of Performance Shares under the Corporation s 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as
amended (the  Plan ). Each Performance Share which vests pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall provide Participant with the right to receive one or more shares of Common Stock on the designated issuance date. The number of shares
of Common Stock subject to the awarded Performance Shares, the applicable performance vesting requirement for those shares, the date on which those vested shares of Common Stock shall become issuable and the remaining terms and conditions governing
the Award, including the applicable service vesting requirement, shall be as set forth in this Agreement.       AWARD SUMMARY

Participant   
      
    ___________________________________________________    

Award Date:   
      
    _______________, 200        

Designated Number of Per-formance Shares:   
      
    The actual number of shares of Common Stock that may become issuable pursuant to the Performance Shares awarded under this Agreement shall be
determined in accordance with the Vesting Schedule below. For purposes of the percentage calculations set forth in the Performance Vesting section of such schedule, the designated number of Performance Shares to be utilized
is                                     
 shares.     

Vesting Schedule:    
      
    The number of shares of Common Stock which may actually vest and become issuable pursuant to the Award shall be
determined pursuant to a two-step process: (i) first the maximum number of shares of Common Stock in which Participant can vest under the Performance Vesting section below shall be calculated on the basis of the level at which each of the
Performance Goals specified on attached Schedule I is actually attained and (ii) then the number of shares calculated under clause (i) in which Participant may actually vest shall be determined on the basis of his or her completion of the applicable
Continuous Service vesting requirements set forth in Paragraph 3 of this Agreement.           Performance Vesting  : Attached Schedule I specifies the two Performance Goals to be attained for the specified Performance Period. Within sixty-five (65) days after the completion of that
Performance Period, the Administrator shall determine and certify the actual level of attainment for each Performance Goal. On the basis of that certified level of attainment, the number of Performance Shares will be multiplied by the applicable
percentage (which may range from 0% to 200%) determined in accordance with the percentile matrix set forth in Schedule I. The number of shares resulting from such calculation shall constitute the maximum number of shares of Common Stock in which
Participant may vest under this Award and shall be designated the  Performance-Qualified Shares.  In no event may the number of such Performance-Qualified Shares exceed 200% of the number of Performance Shares specified in the Number of
Performance Shares section above.         To the
extent any Performance Goal is attained at a level below the twentieth percentile, a portion of the Performance Shares, as determined in accordance with the percentile matrix set forth in Schedule I, may be forfeited, and any such forfeited
Performance Shares shall be immediately cancelled. Participant shall thereupon cease to have any further right, title or interest in the shares of Common Stock underlying those cancelled Performance Shares.           Continuous Service
Vesting  .    The number of Performance-Qualified Shares in which Participant actually vests shall be determined on the basis of his or her satisfaction of the Continuous-Service vesting requirements set forth in Paragraph
3.           Change in Control
Vesting  .    The shares of Common Stock underlying the Performance Shares subject to this Award may also vest on an accelerated basis in accordance with Paragraph 5 should a Change in Control occur prior to the completion
of the Performance Period.           
   2   

Issuance Date:    
      
    The shares of Common Stock which actually vest and become issuable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be issued in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement applicable to the particular circumstances under which such vesting occurs.        2.          Limited Transferability  .  Prior to the actual issuance of the shares of Common Stock which vest hereunder, Participant may not transfer any interest in the
Performance Shares subject to this Award or the underlying shares of Common Stock or pledge or otherwise hedge the sale of those Performance Shares or underlying shares, including (without limitation) any short sale or any acquisition or disposition
of any put or call option or other instrument tied to the value of the underlying shares of Common Stock. However, any shares of Common Stock which vest hereunder but otherwise remain unissued at the time of Participant s death may be
transferred pursuant to the provisions of Participant s will or the laws of inheritance or to Participant s designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of this Award. Participant may also direct the Corporation to record the ownership of any
shares of Common Stock which in fact vest and become issuable hereunder in the name of a revocable living trust established for the exclusive benefit of Participant or Participant and his or her spouse. Participant may make such a beneficiary
designation or ownership directive at any time by completing the Corporation s Universal Beneficiary Designation form and filing the completed form with the Plan Administrator or its designee.      3.          Continuous Service Requirement  .  The number of
Performance-Qualified Shares calculated in accordance with the Performance-Vesting provisions of Paragraph 1 and attached Schedule I represent the maximum number of shares of Common Stock in which Participant can vest hereunder. The actual number of
shares of Common Stock in which Participant shall vest shall be determined as follows:      -        If Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date following the completion of the Performance Period on which the Administrator certifies the attained level of the Performance
Goals for that Performance Period, Participant shall vest in one hundred percent (100%) of the Performance-Qualified Shares.      -        If Participant s Continuous Service terminates prior to the completion of the Performance Period (or after the completion of the Performance Period
but before the date the Administrator certifies the attained level of the Performance Goals for that Performance Period) by reason of death or Permanent Disability, then Participant shall, following the completion of the Performance Period, vest in
that number of shares of Common Stock (if any) determined by multiplying the maximum number of Performance-Qualified Shares in which Participant could vest, based on the actual level at which the Performance Goals are attained and certified for the
Performance Period, by a fraction, the numerator
        
   3   

of which is the number of months of Continuous Service actually completed by Participant in such Performance Period (rounded to the closest whole month), and the denominator of which is the
number of months (rounded to the closest whole number) constituting the entire Performance Period.      -        If Participant s Continuous Service terminates by reason of his or her Retirement at any time after the completion of the first twelve (12) months of the Performance Period but
prior to the completion of the entire Performance Period, then Participant shall, following the completion of the Performance Period, vest in that number of shares of Common Stock (if any) determined by multiplying the maximum number of
Performance-Qualified Shares in which Participant could vest, based on the actual level at which the Performance Goals are attained and certified for the Performance Period, by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of Continuous
Service actually completed by Participant in such Performance Period prior to his or her Retirement (rounded to the closest whole month), and the denominator of which is the number of months (rounded to the closest whole number) constituting the
entire Performance Period.      -        If
Participant s Continuous Service ceases for any other reason (including, without limitation, any deemed cessation of Continuous Service under Paragraph 10) prior to the completion of the Performance Period or prior to the date on which the
Administrator certifies the attained level of the Performance Goals for that Performance Period, then Participant shall not vest in any of the Performance-Qualified Shares, and all of Participant s right, title and interest to the shares of
Common Stock subject to this Award shall immediately terminate;   provided, however  , that should a Change in Control occur prior to the completion of the Performance Period, then the provisions of Paragraph 5 shall govern the vesting of
the Performance Shares.      4.          Stockholder Rights and
Dividend Equivalents        (a)        The holder of this Award
shall not have any stockholder rights, including voting, dividend or liquidation rights, with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to the Award until Participant becomes the record holder of those shares upon their actual issuance following
the Corporation s collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes.      (b)        Notwithstanding the foregoing, should any dividend or other distribution, whether regular or extraordinary and whether payable in cash, securities (other than Common Stock) or other
property, be declared and paid on the outstanding Common Stock while one or more Performance Shares remain subject to this Award (i.e., the underlying shares of Common Stock are not otherwise issued and outstanding for purposes of entitlement to the
dividend or distribution), then a special book account shall be established for Participant and credited with a phantom dividend equivalent to the actual dividend or distribution that would have been paid on the maximum number of shares of Common
Stock that can qualify as Performance-Qualified Shares under this Award, had that number of shares been issued and
        
   4   

outstanding and entitled to that dividend or distribution. As one or more shares of Common Stock subsequently vest hereunder upon the satisfaction of the applicable vesting requirements, the
phantom dividend equivalents credited to those particular shares in the book account shall vest and shall be distributed to Participant (in the same form the actual dividend or distribution was paid to the holders of the Common Stock entitled to
that dividend or distribution or in such other form as the Administrator deems appropriate under the circumstances) concurrently with the issuance of those vested shares. However, such distribution shall be subject to the Corporation s
collection of the Withholding Taxes applicable to that distribution.      (c)        To the extent the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that can qualify as Performance-Qualified Shares under this Award are not in fact earned by reason of the levels at which the
Performance Goals are actually attained, then the phantom dividend equivalents credited to those unearned shares shall be cancelled, and Participant shall cease to have any right or entitlement to receive any distributions or other amounts with
respect to those cancelled dividend equivalents.      (d)        Should
Participant cease Continuous Service without vesting in one or more of the shares of Common Stock subject to this Award (including any shares which do not otherwise vest at that time after taking into account any applicable vesting acceleration
provisions set forth in Paragraphs 3 and 5 of this Agreement), then the phantom dividend equivalents credited to those unvested shares shall be cancelled, and Participant shall thereupon cease to have any further right or entitlement to those
cancelled amounts.      5.          Change in
Control  .    The following provisions shall apply only to the extent a Change in Control is consummated prior to the completion of the Performance Period and shall have no force or effect in the event the effective date of
the Change in Control occurs after the completion of such Performance Period.      (a)        Should (i) the Change in Control occur within the first twelve (12) months of the Performance Period and (ii) Participant remain in Continuous Service through the effective
date of that Change in Control, then Participant shall immediately vest in that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the designated number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1, without any measurement of Performance Goal attainment to
date.      (b)        Should (i) the Change in Control occur at any
time on or after the completion of the first twelve (12) months of the Performance Period and (ii) Participant remain in Continuous Service through the effective date of that Change in Control, then Participant shall immediately vest in
that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the       greater       of:          (i)        the designated number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1, or          (ii)        the number of
Performance-Qualified Shares determined by multiplying (A) the number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1 by (B) the applicable percentage (determined in accordance with the percentile matrix in attached Schedule I) for the
levels at which the Performance
        
   5   

Goals are attained over an abbreviated Performance Period ending with the close of the Corporation s fiscal quarter coincident with or immediately preceding the effective date of the Change
in Control.      (c)        The provisions of subparagraphs (a) and
(b) of this Paragraph 5 shall also apply should Participant s Continuous Service terminate, by reason of an involuntary termination other than for Cause or his or her resignation due to Constructive Termination, at any time during the
period beginning with the execution date of the definitive agreement for the Change in Control transaction and ending with the   earlier   of (i) the effective date of that Change in Control or (ii) the termination of the
definitive agreement without the consummation of the Change in Control;   provided, however  , that in no event shall Participant become entitled to any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Paragraph 5 if the Change in Control is not in
fact consummated.      (d)        Should Participant cease Continuous
Service during the Performance Period by reason of death or Permanent Disability and a Change in Control subsequently occur prior to the completion of that Performance Period, then the Participant shall, at the time of such Change in Control, vest
in a pro-rated number of shares of Common Stock calculated by multiplying (i) the number of Performance Shares or Performance-Qualified Shares determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of
this Paragraph 5 by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of Continuous Service actually completed by Participant in such Performance Period (rounded to the closest whole month), and the denominator of which is the
number of months (rounded to the closest whole number) comprising the portion of the Performance Period ending with the earlier of (i) the effective date of the Change in Control or (ii) the last day of the abbreviated Performance Period
(if any) taken into account under Paragraph 5(b)(ii).      (e)        Should Participant cease Continuous Service by reason of his or her Retirement at any time after the completion of the first twelve (12) months of the Performance Period but prior to
the completion of the entire Performance Period and a Change in Control subsequently occur prior to the completion of that Performance Period, then the Participant shall, at the time of such Change in Control, vest in a pro-rated number of shares of
Common Stock calculated by multiplying (i) the number of Performance Shares or Performance-Qualified Shares determined in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this Paragraph 5 by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of months of Continuous Service actually completed by Participant in such Performance Period prior to his or her Retirement (rounded to the closest whole month), and the denominator of which is the number of months (rounded to
the closest whole number) comprising the portion of the Performance Period ending with the last day of the abbreviated Performance Period (if any) taken into account under Paragraph 5(b)(ii).      (f)        The number of shares of Common Stock in which Participant vests on the
basis of the Performance Shares or Performance-Qualified Shares determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall be issued on the effective date of such Change in Control or as soon as administratively practicable
thereafter, but in no event more than fifteen (15) business days after such effective date. Alternatively, those vested shares
        
   6   

of Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive the same consideration per share of Common Stock payable to the other stockholders of the Corporation in consummation of the Change in
Control, and such consideration shall be distributed to Participant within fifteen (15) business days following the effective date of that Change in Control. Each issuance or distribution made under this Paragraph 5(f) shall be subject to the
Corporation s collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes.      (g)        Except for the actual number of shares of Common Stock in which Participant vests in accordance with this Paragraph 5, Participant shall have cease to have any further right or entitlement
to any additional shares of Common Stock under this Agreement following the effective date of the Change in Control.      (h)        This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate,
dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      6.          Adjustment in Shares  .     Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of
shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction, extraordinary dividend or distribution or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, or should the value of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, then equitable adjustments shall
be made by the Administrator to the total number and/or class of securities issuable pursuant to this Award in order to reflect such change. In making such equitable adjustments, the Administrator shall take into account any amounts credited to
Participant s book account under Paragraph 4(b) in connection with the transaction, and the determination of the Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive. In the event of any Change in Control transaction, the provisions of
Paragraph 5 shall be controlling.      7.          Issuance or
Distribution of Vested Shares or Other Amounts  .      (a)        Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5, the shares of Common Stock in which Participant vests pursuant to the Performance and Continuous Service vesting provisions of Paragraphs 1 and
3 shall be issued following the completion of the Performance Period, in accordance with the following provisions:      (i)        If the applicable Performance Period is coincidental with one or more successive complete calendar years, the issuance shall be effected during the
period beginning with the first business day of the calendar year immediately succeeding the end of the Performance Period and ending no later than March 15 of that year.         
   7   

(ii)        If the
applicable Performance Period ends on a date other than the last day of the calendar year, then the issuance shall be effected as soon as administratively practicable following the completion of that Performance Period, but no later than the
  later   of (A) the last day of the calendar year in which such Performance Period ends or (B the fifteenth (15th) day of third (3rd) calendar month following the last of day of such Performance Period.      (b)        The Corporation shall, on the applicable issuance date, issue to or on
behalf of Participant a certificate (which may be in electronic form) for the shares of Common Stock in which Participant vests pursuant to the Performance and Continuous Service vesting provisions of Paragraphs 1 and 3 or the special vesting
provisions of Paragraph 5 and shall concurrently distribute to the Participant any phantom dividend equivalents with respect to those Shares.      (c)        Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5, no shares of Common Stock shall be issued prior to the completion of the Performance Period. No fractional
shares of Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to this Award, and any fractional share resulting from any calculation made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be rounded down to the next whole share.      (d)        The Corporation shall collect the Withholding Taxes with respect to each
distribution of phantom dividend equivalents by withholding a portion of that distribution equal to the amount of the applicable Withholding Taxes, with the cash portion of the distribution to be the first portion so withheld.      (e)        Unless Participant (i) otherwise makes satisfactory arrangements
with the Corporation s Human Resources Department, not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the applicable issuance date of the shares of Common Stock which vest and become issuable hereunder, to pay the applicable Withholding Taxes
through the delivery of a check payable to the Corporation in the amount of such Withholding Taxes and (ii) in fact delivers such check to the Corporation not later than that issuance date, the Corporation shall collect the applicable
Withholding Taxes through the following automatic share withholding method:      -        On the applicable issuance date, the Corporation shall withhold, from the vested shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable to Participant at that time, a portion of those shares with a Fair
Market Value (measured as of the issuance date) equal to the applicable Withholding Taxes;   provided, however,   that the number of shares of Common Stock which the Corporation shall be required to so withhold shall not exceed in Fair
Market Value the amount necessary to satisfy the Corporation s required tax withholding obligations using the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to supplemental
taxable income.         
   8   

(f)        Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of Paragraphs 7(d) and 7(e), the employee portion of the federal, state and local employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in connection with the vesting of the shares of Common Stock or any other amounts
hereunder (the  Employment Taxes ) shall in all events be collected from Participant no later than the last business day of the calendar year in which those shares or other amounts vest hereunder. Accordingly, to the extent the applicable
issuance date for one or more vested shares of Common Stock or the distribution date for such other amounts is to occur in a year subsequent to the calendar year in which those shares or other amounts vest, the Participant shall, on or before the
last business day of the calendar year in which such shares or other amounts vest, deliver to the Corporation a check payable to its order in the dollar amount equal to the Employment Taxes required to be withheld with respect to those shares or
other amounts. The provisions of this Paragraph 7(f) shall be applicable only to the extent necessary to comply with the applicable tax withholding requirements of Code Section 3121(v).      (g)        Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5 or this Paragraph 7, the
settlement of all Performance or Performance-Qualified Shares which vest under the Award shall be made solely in shares of Common Stock.      8.          Special Deferral Election  .     Provided Participant is a U.S. tax resident and subject to Participant s
satisfaction of any applicable Withholding Tax obligations under Paragraph 7, Participant may elect to defer the receipt of any shares of Common Stock which may become issuable to Participant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, by submitting to
the Corporation on a timely basis a deferral election in the form provided for such purpose. Such deferral election must be submitted to the Corporation prior to the last six (6) months of the Performance Period (including any abbreviated
Performance Period), and any deferral election submitted within that six (6)-month period shall have no force and effect. In submitting such deferral election, Participant must represent that he or she understands the effect of such deferral under
relevant federal, state and local income and employment tax laws, including (without limitation) the fact that Social Security, Medicare and other taxes may be due upon the vesting of the shares of Common Stock notwithstanding the deferral election.
In no event may such a deferral election be made after Participant s cessation of Continuous Service, and no deferral election shall have any force or effect unless such election complies with all applicable requirements of Code
Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.      In the absence of a valid deferral election filed
in accordance with this Paragraph 8, this Agreement shall be administered and interpreted in a manner that complies with the short-term deferral exception to Code Section 409A. Accordingly, any ambiguity in the terms and provisions of this
Agreement shall be interpreted and applied so as to comply with the short-term deferral exception standards under Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.      9.          Deferred Issuance
Date.      Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement, to the extent this Award may be deemed to create a deferred compensation arrangement under Code Section 409A by reason of a deferral election
made pursuant to Paragraph 8 above or otherwise, then the following limitations shall apply:         
   9   

-        No shares
of Common Stock or other amounts which become issuable or distributable under this Agreement by reason of Participant s cessation of Continuous Service shall actually be issued or distributed to Participant until the date of Participant s
Separation from Service or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable, but in no event later than the   later   of (i) the close of the calendar year in which such Separation from Service occurs or (ii) the fifteenth day
of the third calendar month following the date of such Separation from Service.      -        No shares of Common Stock or other amounts which become issuable or distributable under this Agreement by reason of Participant s cessation of Continuous Service shall actually be issued
or distributed to Participant prior to the   earlier   of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) the date of Participant s death, if
Participant is deemed at the time of such Separation from Service to be a specified employee under Section 1.409A-1(i) of the Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A, as determined by the Administrator in accordance with
consistent and uniform standards applied to all other Code Section 409A arrangements of the Corporation, and such delayed commencement is otherwise required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). The
deferred Shares or other distributable amount shall be issued or distributed in a lump sum on the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of Participant s Separation from Service or, if earlier, the first day of the month
immediately following the date the Corporation receives proof of Participant s death.      10.      Leaves of Absence  .    For purposes of the applying the various Continuous Service vesting provisions of this Agreement, Participant shall be deemed to cease Continuous Service on
the commencement date of any leave of absence and not to remain in Continuous Status during the period of that leave, except to the extent otherwise required by law or pursuant to the following policy:      -        Participant shall be deemed to remain in Continuous
Service status during (i) the first three (3) months of an approved personal leave of absence or (ii) the first seven (7) months of any bona fide leave of absence (other than an approved personal leave) and shall be deemed to
cease Continuous Service upon the expiration of the applicable three (3)-month or seven (7)-month period.      -        In no event, however, shall Participant be deemed, for vesting purposes hereunder, to remain in Continuous Service beyond the   earlier   of
(i) the expiration date of that leave of absence, unless Participant returns to active Continuous Service or Employee status on or before that date or (ii) the date Participant s Continuous Service or Employee status actually
terminates by reason of his or her voluntary or involuntary termination or by reason of his or her death or disability.         
   10   

11.        Compliance with Laws and
Regulations .   The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Award shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation and Participant with all Applicable Laws relating thereto.      12.        Notices .   Any notice required to be given or delivered to
the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Participant shall be in writing and addressed to Participant
at the most current address then indicated for Participant on the Corporation s employee records or shall be delivered electronically to Participant through the Corporation s electronic mail system or through an on-line brokerage firm
authorized by the Corporation to effect sales of the Common Stock issued hereunder. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or delivery through the Corporation s electronic mail system or upon deposit in the U.S. mail,
postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.      13.        Successors and Assigns .   Except to the extent otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the
Corporation and its successors and assigns and Participant, Participant s assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Participant s estate and any beneficiaries of the Award designated by Participant.      14.        Construction .   This Agreement and the Award evidenced hereby
are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall be
controlling. All decisions of the Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the Award.      15.        Governing Law .   The interpretation, performance and
enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State s conflict-of-laws rules.      16.        Employment at Will .   Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Participant any right to remain in Continuous Service for any
period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Related Entity employing or retaining Participant) or of Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to
terminate Participant s Continuous Service at any time for any reason, with or without Cause.      17.        Plan Prospectus .   The official prospectus for the Plan is available on the Corporation s intranet at:  http://gnet/ HR/stocks_new.asp . Participant may also obtain a
printed copy of the prospectus by contacting Stock Administration either through the internet at  stockadministration@gilead.com  or by telephoning 650-522-5517.         
   11   

18.        Participant
Acceptance .   Participant must accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement either electronically through the electronic acceptance procedure established by the Corporation or through a written acceptance delivered to the
Corporation in a form satisfactory to the Corporation. In no event shall any shares of Common Stock be issued under this Agreement in the absence of such acceptance.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  Gilead Sciences, Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly-authorized officer on the day and year first indicated above.

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.     

By:   

Title:   

12   

APPENDIX A            DEFINITIONS        The following
definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:      A.        Administrator   shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board acting in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.      B.        Agreement   shall mean this Performance Share Award Agreement.
     C.        Applicable Laws   shall mean the legal requirements
related to the Plan and the Award under applicable provisions of the federal securities laws, state corporate and securities laws, the Code, the rules of any applicable Stock Exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, and the rules of
any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to Awards granted to residents therein.      D.        Award   shall mean the award of Performance Shares made to Participant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.      E.        Award Date   shall mean the date the Performance Shares are awarded to Participant pursuant to the Agreement and shall be the date
indicated in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.      F.        Board   shall
mean the Corporation s Board of Directors.      G.        Cause  
shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 11(c) of the Plan.      H.        Change in Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through the consummation of any of the following transactions:       (i)      a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by
the Corporation s stockholders,  unless  securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned,
directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction;       (ii)      a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the Corporation s assets;   

(iii)    the closing of any
transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a  group  within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such
transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly (whether as a result of a single acquisition or by reason of one or
more acquisitions within the twelve (12)-month period ending with the most recent acquisition) the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities
possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately
after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation s
existing stockholders; or       (iv)    a change in the composition of
the Board over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been
Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in
office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.      In no event, however, shall a Change in
Control be deemed to occur upon a merger, consolidation or other reorganization effected primarily to change the State of the Corporation s incorporation or to create a holding company structure pursuant to which the Corporation becomes a
wholly-owned subsidiary of an entity whose outstanding voting securities immediately after its formation are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the
Corporation s outstanding voting securities immediately prior to the formation of such entity. Should such holding company structure or other Parent entity be established for the Corporation, then subparagraph (iv) shall be applied solely
to the board of directors of that holding company or Parent entity.      I.          Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      J.          Common Stock   shall mean shares of the Corporation s common stock.      K.         Constructive Termination   shall have the meaning assigned to such
term in Section 11(d) of the Plan.   

L.          Consultant  
shall mean any person, including an advisor, who is compensated by the Corporation or any Related Entity for services performed as a non-employee consultant;  provided, however,  that the term  Consultant  shall not include
non-employee Directors serving in their capacity as Board members. The term  Consultant  shall include a member of the board of directors of a Related Entity.      M.          Continuous Service   shall mean the performance of services for the Corporation or a Related Entity (whether now
existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, Director or Consultant. For purposes of this Agreement, Participant shall be deemed to cease Continuous Service immediately upon the occurrence of either of the
following events: (i) Participant no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Related Entity or (ii) the entity for which Participant is performing such services ceases to remain a Related
Entity of the Corporation, even though Participant may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. In jurisdictions requiring notice in advance of an effective termination of Participant s service as an Employee, Director or
Consultant, Continuous Service shall be deemed to terminate upon the actual cessation of such service to the Corporation or a Related Entity notwithstanding any required notice period that must be fulfilled before Participant s termination as
an Employee, Director or Consultant can be effective under Applicable Laws.      N.          Corporation   shall mean Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of Gilead
Sciences, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.      O.          Director   shall mean a member of the Board.      P.          Employee   shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Related Entity), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the
work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.      Q.          Fair Market Value   per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be the closing price per share of Common Stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported), as quoted
on the Stock Exchange serving as the primary trading market for the Common Stock, on the last market trading day prior to the date of determination, as reported in  The Wall Street Journal  or such other source as the Administrator deems
reliable.      R.          1934 Act   shall mean the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.      S.          Participant   shall mean the person to whom the Award is made pursuant to the Agreement.   

T.          Parent  
shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock
possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.      U.          Performance Goals   shall mean the performance goals specified on attached Schedule I which must be attained in order to satisfy the
performance vesting requirements for the shares of Common Stock subject to this Award.      V.          Performance Period   shall mean the period specified on attached Schedule I over which the attainment of the Performance Goals is to be measured.      W.          Performance-Qualified Shares   shall mean the maximum number
of shares of Common Stock in which Participant can vest based on the level at which the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are attained and shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. In no event shall the
number of such Performance-Qualified Shares exceed two hundred percent (200%) of the number of Performance Shares designated in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.      X.          Performance Share   shall mean the phantom shares of Common Stock awarded under this Agreement which will entitle
Participant to receive one or more actual shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award upon the satisfaction of the performance and Continuous Service vesting requirements applicable to such Award.      Y.          Permanent Disability   shall mean the inability of
Participant to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.      Z.          Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 2004 Equity
Incentive Plan, as amended.      AA.      Related Entity   shall mean (i) any
Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation and (ii) any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation and ending with the corporation in the chain for which Participant provides services as an Employee, Director
or Consultant, provided each corporation in such chain owns securities representing at least fifty percent (50%) of the total outstanding voting power of the outstanding securities of another corporation or entity in such chain.      BB.      Retirement   shall mean the Participant s cessation of Employee status on or
after the date on which his or her combined age and years of Continuous Service equal or exceed seventy (70) years.   

CC.      Separation from Service   shall mean
the Participant s cessation of Employee status by reason of his or her death, retirement or termination of employment. The Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment for such purpose at such time as the level of his or her bona
fide services to be performed as an Employee (or as a consultant or independent contractor) permanently decreases to a level that is not more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services he or she rendered as an Employee during
the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or such shorter period for which he or she may have rendered such services). Solely for purposes of determining when a Separation from Service occurs, Participant will be deemed to continue in
 Employee  status for so long as he or she remains in the employ of one or more members of the Employer Group, subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of
performance.  Employer Group  means the Corporation and any Parent or Subsidiary and any other corporation or business controlled by, controlling or under common control with, the Corporation, as determined in accordance with Sections
414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining the controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b), the
phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in such sections and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining
trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in
Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations. Any such determination as to Separation from Service, however, shall be made in accordance with the applicable standards of the Treasury Regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code.
     DD.      Stock Exchange   shall mean the American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq
Global or Global Select Market or the New York Stock Exchange.      EE.      Subsidiary   shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in
the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.      FF.      Vesting Schedule   shall mean the schedule set forth in Paragraph 1 of the
Agreement, pursuant to which the Performance Shares and the underlying shares of Common Stock are to vest upon the satisfaction of the performance and Continuous Service vesting requirements applicable to this Award.      GG.      Withholding Taxes   shall mean the federal, state and local income taxes and the
employee portion of the federal, state and local employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in connection with the vesting and issuance of the shares of Common Stock which vest under of the Award, any phantom dividend equivalents
distributed with respect to those shares and any other amounts distributable in replacement or substitution of such shares.   

</EX-10.26>

<EX-10.29>
 4
 dex1029.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Exhibit 10.29        GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
       Adopted November 15, 1991        Amended May 25, 1994        Amended and Restated January 22, 1998
       Approved by Stockholders May 27, 1998        Amended March 30, 1999        Approved by
Stockholders July 29, 1999        Amended and Restated July 27, 2005        Amended and Restated January 22, 2007        Approved by Stockholders May 9, 2007        Amended and Restated
November 3, 2009        Termination Date: January 22, 2017        
     (a)          The purpose of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( the Plan ) is to provide a means by which employees of
 G ILEAD  S CIENCES , I NC    ., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and its participating Affiliates (as defined in subparagraph 1(c)) may be given an opportunity to purchase
stock of the Company pursuant to a plan that qualifies as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ).       (b)          The Plan initially was adopted on November 15, 1991,
and subsequently amended on May 25, 1994. The Plan has been amended and restated on several subsequent occasions, and each offering under the Plan has been subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan in force and effect on the start date of
that offering. Effective November 3, 2009, the Plan was amended and restated in its entirety, and the maximum number of shares of the Company s common stock reserved for issuance under the Plan, as so amended and restated, will
subsequently be reduced, on a one-for-one basis, by the number of shares of the Company s common stock issued under the Company s International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  International Plan ).       (c)          The term  Affiliate  as used in the Plan means any
parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.       (d)          The Company, by means of the Plan, seeks to retain the services of its employees and employees of its Affiliates, to secure and retain the
services of new employees, and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the Company.       (e)          The Company intends that the rights to purchase stock of the Company granted under the Plan be considered options issued under an
 employee stock purchase plan  as that term is defined in Section 423(b) of the Code, although the Company makes no undertaking or representation to maintain such qualification. The provisions of the Plan shall be construed,
administered and enforced in accordance with Section 423(b) of the Code. The Company may also grant rights to purchase stock under the International Plan that are not intended to meet the requirements of Section 423(b) of the Code,
pursuant to rules, procedures or sub-plans adopted by the Company under such plan and designed to achieve tax, securities law or other objectives in one or more jurisdictions outside the United States, provided that (i) eligible employees (as
that term is described in paragraph 5) who reside in the United States and are employed by the Company or an Affiliate located in the United States will not be granted rights to purchase stock under the International Plan and (ii) eligible
employees of Related Entities (as such term is
        
   1   

defined in the International Plan), whether or not located in the United States, will not be granted rights to purchase stock under the Plan. Except to the limited extent otherwise provided in
the International Plan, the purchase rights granted under that plan will be subject to the same terms, provisions and restrictions as in effect for the purchase rights granted under the Plan.       

2.    
     A DMINISTRATION    .          (a)          The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of the Company unless and until the
Board delegates administration to a Committee, as provided in subparagraph 2(c). Whether or not the Board has delegated administration, the Board shall have the final power to determine all questions of policy and expediency that may arise in the
administration of the Plan. All determinations of the Board or the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons and otherwise accorded the maximum deference permitted by law.       (b)          The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the
limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:         (i)          To determine when and how rights to purchase stock of the Company shall be granted and the provisions to be in effect for each offering of such rights (with no need for
the provisions of each offering to be identical).         (ii)          To designate from time to time which Affiliates shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.         (iii)         To construe and interpret the Plan and rights granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and
regulations for its administration. The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
        (iv)         To amend the Plan as provided in paragraph
13.         (v)          Generally, to exercise such
powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company.       (c)          The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a committee composed of not fewer than two (2) members of the Board (the
 Committee ). If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board, subject, however, to such resolutions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board. The Board may abolish the Committee at any time and revest in the Board the administration of the Plan.       (d)          The Board (or the Committee, as appropriate) may, from time
to time, employ an entity unrelated to the Company to assist with administration, recordkeeping and other ministerial duties in connection with the Plan (a  Third Party Administrator ).       

3.    
     S HARES  S UBJECT  T O  T HE  P LAN    .
        Subject to the provisions of paragraph 12 relating to adjustments upon
changes in stock, the total number of shares that may be sold pursuant to rights granted under the Plan shall not exceed in the aggregate the thirty-three million two hundred eighty thousand (33,280,000)   1    shares of the Company s $.001 par value common           1  Share reserve consists of 4,000,000 shares authorized in November 15, 1991, when the Plan was adopted, an additional 8,000,000 shares         
   2   

stock (the  Common Stock ) that the Company s stockholders have approved for
issuance under the Plan. Shares of Common Stock sold pursuant to rights granted under the Plan shall reduce, on a one-for-one basis, the number of shares remaining available for sale and issuance under the Plan. In addition, any shares of Common
Stock sold pursuant to rights granted under the International Plan shall also reduce, on a one-for-one basis, the number of shares available for sale and issuance under the Plan. If any right granted under the Plan shall for any reason terminate
without having been exercised, the Common Stock not purchased under such right shall again become available for issuance under the Plan, unless otherwise issued under the International Plan. The Common Stock issuable under the Plan may be unissued
shares or reacquired shares, bought on the market or otherwise.       

4.    
     G RANT  O F  R IGHTS ; O FFERING    .         The Board or the Committee may from time to time grant or provide for the grant of rights to purchase Common Stock under the
Plan to eligible employees (an  Offering ) on a date or dates (the  Offering Date(s) ) selected by the Board or the Committee. Each Offering shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the
Committee shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Offerings need not be identical, but each Offering shall include (through incorporation of the provisions of the Plan by reference in the Offering or otherwise) the substance of the
provisions contained in paragraphs 5 through 8, inclusive.       

5.    
     E LIGIBILITY    .          (a)          Rights may be granted only to employees of the Company or, to employees of any Affiliate designated by the Board or
the Committee as provided in subparagraph 2(b). Except as provided in subparagraph 5(b), an employee of the Company or any designated Affiliate shall not be eligible to be granted rights under the Plan, unless, on the Offering Date, such employee
has been in the employ of the Company or one or more Affiliates for such continuous period preceding the grant date as the Board or the Committee may require, but in no event shall the required period of continuous employment be equal to or greater
than two (2) years. In addition, unless otherwise determined by the Board or the Committee and set forth in the terms of the applicable Offering, no employee of the Company or any designated Affiliate shall be eligible to be granted rights
under the Plan, unless, on the Offering Date, such employee s customary employment with the Company or such designated Affiliate is at least twenty (20) hours per week and at least five (5) months per calendar year.       (b)          The Board or the Committee may provide that, each person
who, during the course of an Offering, first becomes an eligible employee of the Company or of any designated Affiliate will, on a date or dates specified in the Offering which coincides with the day on which such person becomes an eligible employee
or occurs thereafter, receive a right under that Offering, which right shall thereafter be deemed to be a part of that Offering. Such right shall have the same characteristics as any rights originally granted under that Offering, as described
herein, except that:       (i)         the date on which such right
is granted shall be the  Offering Date  of such right for all purposes, including determination of the exercise price of such right;       (ii)        the Offering Period (as defined in subparagraph 6(a)) for such right shall begin on its Offering Date and end coincident with the end of such Offering;
      (iii)       the Offering Date shall constitute the beginning of a
Purchase Period; and              authorized on May 24, 1994, an additional 8,000,000 authorized on May 27, 1998, an additional 5,280,000 shares authorized on
July 29, 1999, and an additional 8,000,000 shares authorized on May 9, 2007. The share amounts so indicated have been adjusted to reflect the four (4) two-for-one stock splits of the Common Stock effected in February 2001, March
2002, September 2004, and June 2007, respectively.         
   3   

(iv)        the Board or the
Committee may provide that if such person first becomes an eligible employee within a specified period of time before the end of the Offering Period (as defined in subparagraph 6(a)) for such Offering, he or she will not receive any right under that
Offering.       (c)        No employee shall be eligible for the grant of
any rights under the Plan if, immediately after any such rights are granted, such employee owns stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Affiliate.
For purposes of this subparagraph 5(c), the rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall apply in determining the stock ownership of any employee, and stock which such employee may purchase under all outstanding rights and options shall be treated
as stock owned by such employee.       (d)        An eligible employee may
be granted rights under the Plan only if such rights, together with any other rights granted to such employee under  employee stock purchase plans  of the Company and any Affiliate, as specified by Section 423(b)(8) of the Code, do
not permit such employee s rights to purchase Common Stock of the Company or any Affiliate to accrue at a rate which exceeds U.S. twenty-five thousand dollars (U.S. $25,000) of fair market value of such Common Stock (determined at the time such
rights are granted) for each calendar year in which such rights are outstanding at any time.       (e)        Officers of the Company and any designated Affiliate shall be eligible to participate in Offerings under the Plan, provided, however, that the Board may provide in an Offering that certain
employees who are highly compensated employees within the meaning of Section 423(b)(4)(D) of the Code shall not be eligible to participate.       

6.    
     R IGHTS ; P URCHASE  P RICE .           (a)        On each Offering Date, each eligible employee, pursuant to an Offering
made under the Plan, shall be granted the right to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable with up to fifteen percent (15%) (or such lower percentage as the Board determines for a particular Offering) of such employee s
Earnings (as defined in subparagraph 7(b)) during the period which begins on the Offering Date (or such later date as the Board determines for a particular Offering) and ends on the date stated in the Offering, which date shall be no more than
twenty-seven (27) months after the Offering Date (the  Offering Period ). In connection with each Offering made under the Plan, the Board or the Committee shall specify a maximum number of shares which may be purchased by any employee
and a maximum aggregate number of shares which may be purchased by all eligible employees pursuant to such Offering. Each Offering Period may contain more than one exercise date, as defined in the relevant Offering (the  Exercise Date ),
in which case there will be multiple  Purchase Periods,  the first commencing with the Offering Date and ending with the first Exercise Date of that Offering and subsequent ones commencing with the first day following the immediately
preceding Exercise Date and ending with the next Exercise Date of that Offering. Where an Offering contains more than one Exercise Date, the Board or the Committee may, prior to the start of that Offering, specify a maximum number of shares which
may be purchased by any employee on each such Exercise Date within such Offering and a maximum aggregate number of shares which may be purchased by all eligible employees on such Exercise Date. If the aggregate purchase of shares upon exercise of
rights granted under the Offering would exceed any such maximum aggregate number, the Board or the Committee shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares available in as nearly a uniform manner as shall be equitable and practicable under the
circumstances.       (b)        The purchase price of Common Stock
acquired pursuant to rights granted under the Plan shall be equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the lower of:       (i)         the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the start of the Offering Period or, if an employee enters the Offering Period after the start date, then the greater of
(A) the Fair Market Value per share on the start date of the Offering Period or (B) the Fair Market Value per share on his or her entry date into that Offering Period; or       (ii)        the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Exercise Date.
        
   4   

(c)        As of any date,
 Fair Market Value  is defined as the closing sales price for the Common Stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) on such day as quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market or as reported by such other source as the Board deems
reliable. If there are no quotations for the relevant day,  Fair Market Value  is defined with reference to the most recent preceding date on which there are quotations.       

7.    
     P ARTICIPATION ; W ITHDRAWAL ; T ERMINATION    .          (a)        An eligible employee may become a participant in an Offering by
submitting an enrollment form to the Company or by accessing the Third Party Administrator s website and electronically enrolling within the Offering on or before his or her applicable Offering Date for that Offering. During such enrollment
process, the employee shall authorize payroll deductions of up to fifteen percent (15%) (or such lower percentage as the Board determines for a particular Offering) of such employee s Earnings (as defined in subparagraph 7(b)) during the
Offering Period. The payroll deductions made for each participant shall be credited to an account for such participant under the Plan and shall be deposited with the general funds of the Company. A participant may reduce, increase or begin payroll
deductions after the beginning of any Offering Period only as provided for in that Offering. A participant may make additional payments into his or her account only if specifically provided for in the Offering and only if the participant has not had
the maximum amount withheld during the Offering Period.       (b)         Earnings  is defined as an employee s total compensation, including (i) all salary, wages and other remuneration paid to the employee (including amounts elected to be
deferred or contributed under any cash or deferred arrangement or cafeteria benefit plan maintained by the Company (or any participating Affiliate) pursuant to Sections 401(k) and 125, respectively, of the Code and (ii) overtime pay,
commissions, bonuses, profit sharing and any special payments for extraordinary services. However,  Earnings  shall not include the cost of employee benefits paid by the Company or any Affiliate, education or tuition fee reimbursements,
imputed income arising under any group insurance or other employee benefit program, reimbursement of traveling, business or moving expenses, income realized in connection with stock options or other equity awards, amounts elected to be deferred
under any nonqualified deferred compensation plan established by the Company or any Affiliate and referral pay which is paid in recognition of referring an employee candidate.       (c)        At any time during an Offering Period a participant may terminate his or her payroll deductions under the Plan and withdraw from
the Offering by submitting a withdrawal notice to the Company or by accessing the Third Party Administrator s website and electronically electing to withdraw. Such withdrawal may be elected at any time prior to the end of the Purchase Period.
Upon such withdrawal from the Offering by a participant, the Company shall distribute to such participant all of his or her accumulated payroll deductions (reduced to the extent, if any, such deductions have been used to acquire shares for the
participant) under the Offering, without interest unless the terms of the Offering specifically so provide, and such participant s interest in that Offering shall be automatically terminated. A participant s withdrawal from an Offering
will have no effect upon such participant s eligibility to participate in any other future Offerings under the Plan but such participant will be required to re-enroll in order to participate in subsequent Offerings under the Plan.   
   (d)        Rights granted pursuant to any Offering under the Plan shall
terminate immediately upon cessation of any participating employee s employment with the Company or any participating Affiliate for any reason, and the Company shall distribute to such terminated employee all of his or her accumulated payroll
deductions (reduced to the extent, if any, such deductions have been used to acquire shares for the terminated employee) under the Offering, without interest unless the terms of the Offering specifically so provide.       (e)        Should a participating employee cease to remain in active service by
reason of an approved unpaid leave of absence, then such employee shall have the right, exercisable up until the last business day of the Purchase Period in which such leave commences, to (a) withdraw all the payroll deductions collected to
date on his or her behalf for that Purchase Period or (b) have such funds held for the purchase of shares on his or her behalf on the next scheduled Exercise Date. If the participating employee fails to make a timely election, the accumulated
payroll deductions will automatically be applied to the purchase of shares on his or her behalf on the
        
   5   

next scheduled Exercise Date. In no event, however, shall any further payroll deductions be collected on the employee s behalf during such leave. Upon the participating employee s
return to active service (i) within three (3) months following the commencement of such leave or (ii) prior to the expiration of any longer period for which such employee had reemployment rights with the Company or any participating
Affiliate provided by either statute or contract, his or her payroll deductions under the Plan shall automatically resume at the rate in effect at the time the leave began, unless the employee withdraws from the Plan prior to his or her return. An
employee who returns to active employment following a leave of absence that exceeds in duration the applicable time period set forth in (i) or (ii) above shall be treated as a new employee for purposes of subsequent participation in the
Plan and must accordingly re-enroll in the Plan in order to participate in subsequent Offerings under the Plan.       (f)        A participating employee who transfers employment from the Company or any Affiliate participating in the Plan to an Affiliate or Related Entity participating in the International Plan
shall immediately cease to participate in the Plan. However, his or her accumulated payroll deductions for the Purchase Period in which such transfer occurs shall be transferred to the International Plan, and such individual shall immediately join
the then current Offering under the International Plan upon the same terms and conditions in effect for his or her participation in the Plan, except for such modifications as may be required by applicable local law. A participating employee who
transfers employment from an Affiliate or Related Entity participating in a current Offering under the International Plan to the Company or any other Affiliate participating in the Plan shall remain a participant in the International Plan until the
earlier of (i) the end of the current Offering Period under the International Plan or (ii) the start date of the first Offering under the Plan in which he or she participates following such transfer.       (g)        Rights granted under the Plan shall not be transferable by a participant
otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or by a beneficiary designation as provided in paragraph 14 and, otherwise during his or her lifetime, shall be exercisable only by the person to whom such rights are granted.
      
     (a)        On each Exercise Date, each participant s accumulated payroll
deductions (without any increase for interest unless the terms of the Offering specifically so provide) will be applied to the purchase of whole shares of Common Stock, up to the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to the terms of the Plan
and the applicable Offering, at the purchase price specified in the Offering. No fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of rights granted under the Plan. The amount, if any, of accumulated payroll deductions remaining in each
participant s account after the purchase of shares which is less than the amount required to purchase one share of Common Stock on the final Exercise Date of an Offering shall be held in each such participant s account for the purchase of
shares under the next Offering under the Plan, unless such participant withdraws from such next Offering, as provided in subparagraph 7(c), or is no longer eligible to be granted rights under the Plan, as provided in paragraph 5, in which case such
amount shall be distributed to the participant as soon as administratively practicable after such final Exercise Date, without interest unless the terms of the Offering specifically so provide. The amount, if any, of accumulated payroll deductions
remaining in any participant s account after the purchase of shares which is equal to the amount required to purchase one or more whole shares of Common Stock on the final Exercise Date of an Offering shall be distributed in full to the
participant as soon as administratively possible after such Exercise Date, without interest unless the terms of the Offering specifically so provide.       (b)        No rights granted under the Plan may be exercised to any extent unless the Plan (including rights granted thereunder) is covered by an effective
registration statement pursuant to the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. If on an Exercise Date of any Offering hereunder the Plan is not so registered, no rights granted under the Plan or any Offering shall be exercised on such Exercise
Date, and all payroll deductions accumulated during the Purchase Period ending on such Exercise Date (reduced to the extent, if any, such deductions have been used to acquire shares) shall be distributed to the participants, without interest, unless
the terms of the Offering specifically so provide.         
   6   

9.    
     COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY.           (a)        While rights granted under the Plan remain outstanding, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of shares of Common Stock required to
satisfy such rights.       (b)        The Company shall seek to obtain
from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to issue and sell shares of Common Stock upon exercise of the rights granted under the Plan. If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is
unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority which counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of shares under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to
issue and sell shares upon exercise of such rights unless and until such authority is obtained.       

10.    
     A CCUMULATED  P AYROLL  D EDUCTIONS .          A participant s accumulated payroll deductions are part of the general funds of the Company and do not earn interest,
unless the terms of the Offering specifically so provide.       

11.    
     R IGHTS  A S  A S TOCKHOLDER .          A participant shall not be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares
subject to rights granted under the Plan unless and until certificates representing such shares shall have been issued.       

12.    
     A DJUSTMENTS  U PON  C HANGES  I N  S TOCK .       
   (a)        If any change is made in the securities subject to the Plan, or
subject to any rights granted under the Plan (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, dividend in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change
in corporate structure or otherwise), the Plan and the outstanding rights thereunder will be appropriately adjusted as to the class(es) and maximum number of securities subject to the Plan and the class(es) and number of securities and price per
share subject to each outstanding purchase right.       (b)        In the
event of: (1) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company; (2) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation; (3) a reverse merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but in which the
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately preceding the merger are converted by virtue of the merger into other property, whether in the form of securities, cash or otherwise; or (4) any other capital reorganization in which more than
fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the Company entitled to vote are exchanged, then, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion (i) any surviving corporation may assume outstanding rights or substitute similar rights for those
under the Plan, (ii) such rights may continue in full force and effect, or (iii) the accumulated payroll deductions may be used to purchase shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the transaction described above and the rights of
participants under the ongoing Offering shall be terminated.       

13.    
     A MENDMENT  O F  T HE  P LAN .           (a)        The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the Plan.
However, except as provided in paragraph 12 relating to adjustments upon certain changes to the Common Stock, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the
adoption of the amendment, where the amendment will:       (i)         Increase the total number of shares reserved for issuance and sale in the aggregate under the Plan and the International Plan;         
   7   

(ii)        Modify the provisions
as to eligibility for participation in the Plan (to the extent such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to maintain employee stock purchase plan treatment under Section 423 of the Code); or       (iii)       Modify the Plan in any other way if such modification requires stockholder
approval in order for the Plan to maintain employee stock purchase plan treatment under Section 423 of the Code or to comply with any applicable Nasdaq or securities exchange listing requirements.      The Board may, in its sole discretion, submit any other amendment to the Plan for stockholder approval. It is expressly
contemplated that the Board may amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable to provide eligible employees with the maximum benefits provided or to be provided under the provisions of the Code and the regulations promulgated
thereunder relating to employee stock purchase plans and/or to bring the Plan and/or rights granted under it into compliance therewith.       (b)        Rights and obligations under any rights granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be altered or impaired by any amendment of the Plan, except with
the consent of the person to whom such rights were granted or except as necessary to comply with applicable laws or governmental regulations or to ensure that the Plan and/or rights granted thereunder comply with the requirements of Section 423
of the Code.       

14.    
     D ESIGNATION  O F  B ENEFICIARY    .          (a)        A participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to
receive any shares and cash, if any, from the participant s account under the Plan in the event of such participant s death subsequent to the end of an Offering but prior to delivery to the participant of such shares and cash. In addition,
a participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the participant s account under the Plan in the event of such participant s death during an Offering.       (b)        The participant may change such designation of beneficiary at any time
by written notice. In the event of the death of a participant in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such participant s death, the Company shall deliver such shares and/or cash to the
executor or administrator of the estate of the participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its sole discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to
any one or more dependents or relatives of the participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate or determine to be the appropriate recipients of the shares and/or
cash under applicable law.       

15.    
     T ERMINATION  O R  S USPENSION  O F  T HE 
P LAN    .            (a)        The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. Unless sooner terminated, the Plan shall terminate ten (10) years from the date the Plan was adopted by the Board or approved
by the stockholders of the Company, whichever was earlier. No rights may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated.       (b)        Rights and obligations under any rights granted while the Plan is in effect shall not be impaired by suspension or termination of the Plan, except as
expressly provided in the Plan or with the consent of the person to whom such rights were granted, or except as necessary to comply with applicable laws or governmental regulation or to ensure that the Plan and/or rights granted thereunder comply
with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.         
   8   

If any particular provision of the Plan is found to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall not affect the other provisions of the Plan, but the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if
such invalid provision had been omitted.       
    Except to the extent that provisions of the Plan are governed by applicable provisions of the Code or any other substantive
provision of U.S. federal law, the Plan shall be construed in accordance with, and shall be governed by, the substantive laws of the State of Delaware without resort to Delaware s conflict-of-laws rules.       

18.    
     E FFECTIVE  D ATE  O F  P LAN    .         The Plan shall become effective as determined by the Board, but no rights granted under the Plan shall be exercised unless
and until the stockholders of the Company have approved the Plan.         
   9   

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.35>
 5
 dex1035.htm
 GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. SEVERANCE PLAN

Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan 

Exhibit 10.35            GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SEVERANCE PLAN        Adopted on March 23, 2004,        to be effective January 29, 2003        Amended and Restated on May 9, 2006,        to be effective January 1, 2005        Amended and Restated on
May 8, 2007        to be effective May 8, 2007        Amended on February 8, 2008        to be effective
January 1, 2008        Amended on May 7, 2008        to be effective May 7, 2008        Amended on
December 15, 2008        to be effective January 1, 2009        Amended on December 14, 2009        to be effective
January 1, 2010            Amended on January 28,
2010        to be effective January 28, 2010    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

I.   
      
    INTRODUCTION   
      
  1   

II.   
      
    COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION   
      
  2   

III.   
      
    TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION   
      
  2   

IV.   
      
    SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT   
      
  2   

V.   
      
    TIME AND FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT   
      
  6   

VI.   
      
    DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT   
      
  8   

VII.   
      
    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
      
  8   

VIII.   
      
    NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS   
      
  10   

IX.   
      
    SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS   
      
  10   

X.   
      
    LEGAL CONSTRUCTION   
      
  10   

XI.   
      
    ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN   
      
  10   

XII.   
      
    CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS   
      
  11   

XIII.   
      
    BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN   
      
  13   

XIV.   
      
    OTHER PLAN INFORMATION   
      
  13   

XV.   
      
    STATEMENT OF ERISA RIGHTS   
      
  14   

XVI.   
      
    AVAILABILITY OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION   
      
  15   

XVII.   
      
    DEFINITIONS   
      
  15   

XVIII.   
      
    EXECUTION   
      
  20   

APPENDIX A Chief Executive Officer Severance Benefits   
      
  21   

APPENDIX B Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President Severance Benefits   
      
  26   

APPENDIX C Vice President and Senior Advisor Severance Benefits   
      
  31   

APPENDIX D Severance Benefits for Eligible Employees other than Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice
President and Senior Advisor   
      
  37          
   i   

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SEVERANCE PLAN        AND        SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION        (As Amended and Restated Effective January 28, 2010)        

I.   
    INTRODUCTION         The Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan (the  Plan ) was originally adopted by the Company effective January 29, 2003, and was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2005, on May 9, 2006. The Plan
was further amended and restated on May 8, 2007 and subsequently amended in February and May 2008 in order to effect the following: (i) bring the Plan into documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Code and the final Treasury
Regulations thereunder and (ii) incorporate certain transitional relief in accordance with (A) Treasury Notice 2005-1, Q A-19, as modified by the preamble to the proposed and the final regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the
Code, published in the Federal Register on October 4, 2005 and April 17, 2007, respectively, and (B) Treasury Notice 2007-86. This Plan and Summary Plan Description as so amended and restated effects such full documentary compliance
under Section 409A of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations, effective January 1, 2009, and replaces all severance or similar plans or programs of the Company previously in effect. The Company has no severance or similar plan or
program other than this Plan.   1         The May 7, 2008 restatement of the Plan also revised the bonus component of the Severance Pay Benefit formulas in Appendix A, Appendix
B and Appendix C to comply with Revenue Ruling 2008-13. Such amendment was effective as of May 7, 2008.      The Plan was
further amended on December 15, 2008 to provide, effective as of January 1, 2009, that (i) the cash severance benefits to which individuals covered by Appendix D may become entitled under the Plan shall be paid in a lump sum and
(ii) the COBRA coverage costs that Participants may incur for the applicable period specified in Appendix A, B, C or D following their termination of employment shall be paid in the form of a lump sum prepayment, subject to the Company s
collection of the applicable withholding taxes.      The Plan was amended on December 14, 2009 to provide, effective as of
January 1, 2010, that the bonus component of the severance benefit formula in effect under Appendix A and Appendix B of the Plan for the covered Participants thereunder whose qualifying termination occurs in a non-change in control situation
will no longer calculated by applying the specified multiple in such situation to a pro-rated portion of their average actual bonus for the three-year or shorter period preceding the fiscal year of their termination but will instead be calculated by
applying that multiple to one hundred percent of such average actual annual bonus.                 1       The Triangle
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Severance Plan remained in effect until January 23, 2004 and provided benefits to employees of Triangle who were involuntarily terminated.         
   1   

The Plan was further amended on January 28, 2010 to limit the class of participants
eligible to qualify for the potential tax gross-up payment under Appendicies A through C to the Plan that is designed to cover any excise tax liability they might incur under Section 4999 of the Code in connection with the severance benefits
provided to them under the Plan and to implement a greatest after-tax benefit limitation for participants whose benefits under the Plan may constitute parachute payments under Section 280G of the Code but who are not otherwise eligible for any
tax gross-up payment under the Plan that would cover any resulting tax liability to which they might otherwise become subject under Section 4999 of the Code.      The purpose of the Plan is to provide a Severance Pay Benefit to certain Eligible Employees whose employment with the Company terminates under certain prescribed circumstances. The Company is the Plan
Administrator for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). The Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.      Capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the meaning set forth in Section XVII.       

II.   
    COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION         An Eligible Employee shall commence participation in the Plan upon the later of (i) January 29, 2003 or (ii) his or her date of hire.       

III.   
    TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION         A Participant s participation in the Plan shall terminate upon the occurrence of the earliest of the following:       

(a)   
    The Participant s employment terminates without meeting the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(1).          

(b)   
    The Participant s employment terminates with a provision of Section IV(a)(ii) being applicable.          

(c)   
    The Participant fails to meet the requirements of Section IV(a)(i)(2).          

(d)   
    The Participant has received a complete distribution of his or her Severance Pay Benefit.          

(e)   
    The Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee (other than by reason of termination of his or her employment with the Company).

(f)   
    The Plan terminates.          

IV.   
    SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT          

(a)   
    Eligibility for Severance Pay Benefit.            
   2   

(i)   
    Subject to Section IV(a)(ii), a Participant shall be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit only if the Participant meets the requirements of Section
IV(a)(i)(1) and Section IV(a)(i)(2).          

(1)   
    The Participant incurs a Separation from Service as a result of an involuntary termination of his or her Employee status by the Company because of a
Company-wide or departmental reorganization or a significant restructuring of the Participant s job duties; provided, however, that a Participant s Employee status shall also be deemed to have been involuntarily terminated by the Company
if he or she resigns because of (A) a transfer to a new work location that is more than 50 miles from his or her previous work location, and (B) in the case of a Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit is determined with reference to
Appendix A, B or C, a Constructive Termination (as defined in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan) in conjunction with a Change in Control and within the time specified in Appendix A, B or C, as applicable.

(2)   
    The Participant executes and delivers to the Company the Release within the time frame prescribed by the Company therein, but in no event later than
the forty-fifth (45th) day following his or her Separation from Service, and the period (if any such period is prescribed by the Company in the Release) for revoking the execution of the Release under the Older Workers  Benefit Protection
Act, 29 U.S.C.   626(f), expires without the Participant s revocation of such Release.         Under no circumstances shall a Participant be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan if he or she terminates Employee status for the purpose of accepting employment with the entity that effectuates a Change in Control, its
subsidiaries or affiliates.       

(ii)   
    Notwithstanding Section IV(a)(i), a Participant shall be disqualified from receiving a Severance Pay Benefit upon the occurrence of any of the
following:          

(1)   
    The Participant voluntarily terminates Employee status for any reason prior to the termination date set by the Company;

(2)   
    The Participant s Employee status is terminated by death or for cause (including, without limitation, gross misconduct or dereliction of duty)
or for failure to meet performance goals or objectives as determined by the Company;          

(3)   
    If the Participant is receiving short-term sick leave benefits on the date his or her Employee status terminates, the Participant fails to execute
and deliver to the Company, within thirty (30) days after his or her Separation from Service, a written waiver of any short-term sick leave benefits that might otherwise be payable after such termination of Employee status;
           
   3   

(4)   
    The Participant terminates Employee status in order to accept employment with an organization that is wholly or partly owned (directly or
indirectly) by the Company or an Affiliate;          

(5)   
    The Participant accepts any job with a Buyer or Outsourcing Supplier;          

(6)   
    The Participant is offered full-time employment with a Buyer or Outsourcing Supplier at a new work location 50 miles or less from his or her
previous work location with the Company and taking such position would not result in a reduction in his or her Regular Earnings;          

(7)   
    Except in the case of a Severance Pay Benefit payable on account of a Change in Control of the Company, the Participant received a severance benefit
in connection with an acquisition effected by the Company within 24 months prior to his or her Separation from Service; or          

(8)   
    Except for a Severance Pay Benefit payable on account of a Change in Control of the Company, the Participant has not completed six months of
Continuous Service as of the date of his or her termination of Employee status; provided, however, that, effective May 8, 2007, such service requirement shall not be applicable to Employees who are Vice Presidents or in Grades 21 through 34.
        The business decisions that may result in a Participant qualifying for a Severance Pay
Benefit are decisions to be made by the Company in its sole discretion. In making these decisions, similarly situated organizations, locations, functions, classifications, and/or Participants need not be treated in the same manner. Each Participant
remains an employee at will, and the date selected by the Company to terminate the Participant s Employee status is within its sole discretion.       

(b)   
    Amount of Severance Pay Benefit.          

(i)   
    Subject to Section IV(b)(ii), the Severance Pay Benefit payable to a Participant shall be as set forth in the applicable Appendix:

(1)   
    Appendix A   Chief Executive Officer.          

(2)   
    Appendix B   Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents.          

(3)   
    Appendix C   Vice Presidents and Senior Advisors.          

(4)   
    Appendix D   All Eligible Employees not covered by Appendix A, B, or C.         Senior Advisors covered under Appendix C shall only be eligible for a Severance Pay Benefit in connection with a Change in
Control.         
   4   

(ii)   
    Notwithstanding Section IV(b)(i), the total Severance Pay Benefit otherwise payable to a Participant under the Plan shall be subject to reduction
(but not below zero) as follows:          

(1)   
    If a Participant is reemployed by the Company or an Affiliate within the number of weeks after his or her Separation from Service that is equal to
the number of weeks taken into consideration in calculating the Regular Earnings component of his or her Severance Pay Benefit, the total Severance Pay Benefit payable to such Participant shall be reduced to the dollar amount that the
Participant s Regular Earnings would have been for the period from the date of termination to the date of reemployment. In all cases, the reduced benefit will be based on the Participant s Regular Earnings used to calculate such
Participant s Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan. A Participant will be considered  reemployed  under the Plan for purposes of the foregoing repayment provision if he or she is rehired as an Employee or if he or she is retained at a
Company facility as or through a contractor for more than a full-time equivalent of more than 45 work days.          

(2)   
    If a Participant is employed by a Buyer or Outsourcing Vendor within the number of weeks after his or her Separation from Service that is equal to
the number of weeks taken into consideration in calculating the Regular Earnings component of his or her Severance Pay Benefit, the total Severance Pay Benefit payable to such Participant shall be reduced to the dollar amount that the
Participant s Regular Earnings would have been for the period from the date of termination to the date of employment with the Buyer or Outsourcing Vendor.         Section IV(b)(ii)(2) may be waived in writing by the Company in its sole discretion.       

(3)   
    The Severance Pay Benefit shall be reduced by severance pay or other similar benefits payable under any other plan or policy of the Company or an
Affiliate or government required payment (other than unemployment compensation under United States law), including, but not limited to, any benefit enhancement program adopted as part of a pension plan, but only to the extent the time and form of
such alternative payments do not otherwise result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A of the Severance Pay Benefit payable under this Plan.          

(4)   
    The Severance Pay Benefit shall be reduced by any amounts payable pursuant to the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act
( WARN ) or any other similar federal, state or local statute.            
   5   

(5)   
    The Severance Pay Benefit shall be reduced by the amount of any indebtedness owed to the Company, but only to the extent such offset would not
otherwise contravene any applicable limitations of Code Section 409A.          

(c)   
    Repayment of the Severance Pay Benefit.         If the Participant has received payment under the Plan in excess of the Severance Pay Benefit, as reduced in accordance with Section IV(b)(ii), the Participant must agree as a
condition of reemployment that such excess will be repaid to the Company within sixty (60) days after the date his or her reemployment commences.       

V.   
    TIME AND FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT          

(a)   
    The Severance Pay Benefit (other than the Lump Sum Health Care Payment) for each Participant, other than a Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit
is determined pursuant to Appendix D, shall be paid in equal periodic installments over the total number of weeks taken into account in calculating the Regular Earnings component of the Severance Pay Benefit to which such Participant is entitled.
Except as set forth below, such installments shall be payable over the applicable period on the regularly scheduled pay dates in effect for the Company s salaried employees, beginning with the first such pay date within the sixty (60)-day
period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and
revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or
beginning on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall the first such installment be paid later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have
each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked.          

(b)   
    For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the Severance Pay Benefit payable pursuant to Section V(a) above shall be deemed to be a series of
separate payments, with each installment of the Severance Pay Benefit to be treated as a separate payment.          

(c)   
    The Severance Pay Benefit for each Participant whose Severance Pay Benefit is determined pursuant to Appendix D shall be paid in a lump sum on the
first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the
Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) has been delivered
on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall
           
   6   

such lump sum payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period
following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked.          

(d)   
    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section V or any other Section of the Plan, other than Section V(e) and (f) below, no
Severance Pay Benefit (or component thereof) that is deemed to constitute  nonqualified deferred compensation  within the meaning of and subject to Section 409A of the Code shall commence with respect to a Participant until the
earlier of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of such Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) the date of his or her death, if the Participant is deemed at the time of such Separation from
Service to be a Specified Employee   and   such delayed commencement is otherwise required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, all payments
deferred pursuant to this Section V(d), whether they were otherwise payable in installments or a lump sum, shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant, and any remaining Severance Pay Benefit shall be paid in accordance with the schedule
described in Section V(a) above or in a lump sum to the extent such Severance Pay Benefit is to be paid pursuant to Section V(c) above. Notwithstanding Section V(d), should a Participant who is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her
Separation from Service become entitled to a General Severance Pay Benefit prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, then the portion of that Severance Pay Benefit that does not exceed the dollar limit described below and is otherwise
scheduled to be paid no later than the last day of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which his or her Separation from Service occurs will not be subject to any deferred commencement date under Section V(d) and shall be paid to
such Participant as it becomes due under Section V(a),   provided and only if   such portion qualifies as an involuntary separation pay plan in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury
Regulations. For purposes of this Section V(e), the applicable dollar limitation will be equal to two (2) times the lesser of (A) the Participant s annualized compensation (based on his or her annual rate of pay for the taxable year
preceding the taxable year of his or her Separation from Service, adjusted to reflect any increase during that taxable year which was expected to continue indefinitely had such Separation from Service not occurred) or (B) the compensation limit
under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code as in effect in the year of the Separation from Service. To the extent the portion of the Severance Pay Benefit to which such Participant would otherwise be entitled under Section V(a) during the deferral
period under Section V(d) exceeds the foregoing dollar limitation, such excess shall be paid in a lump sum upon the expiration of that deferral period, in accordance with the payment delay provisions of Section V(d), and the remainder of the
Severance Pay Benefit (if any) shall be paid in accordance with the schedule described in Section V(a). In no event, however, shall this Section V(e) be applicable to any Severance Pay Benefit (or any portion thereof) which does not qualify as an
involuntary separation pay plan under Section 1.409A-(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations.          

(e)   
    Section V(d) shall not apply to the lump sum prepayment of COBRA Coverage Costs under Appendix A through D to the extent the dollar amount of that
prepayment does not
           
   7   

exceed the applicable dollar amount in effect under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code for the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation form Service occurs.

(f)   
    Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no distribution shall be made from the Plan that would constitute an impermissible
acceleration of payment as defined in Section 409A(3) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.          

(g)   
    No interest shall be paid on a Severance Pay Benefit required to be deferred in accordance with the foregoing.          

VI.   
    DEATH OF A PARTICIPANT         If a Participant dies after qualifying for a Severance Pay Benefit but before such benefit is completely paid, the balance of the Severance Pay Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum to the
Participant s Beneficiary not later than the later of (i) December 31 of the year in which the Participant s death occurred or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of
the Participant s death.       

VII.   
    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION          

(a)   
    General Rule.         Although the Company expects to continue the Plan indefinitely, inasmuch as future conditions cannot be foreseen, (subject to Sections VII(b) and (c)) the Company reserves the right to amend or terminate
the Plan at any time by action of its Board of Directors or by action of a committee or individual(s) acting pursuant to a valid delegation of authority of the Board of Directors. However, no amendment or termination shall adversely affect the right
of a Participant who incurs a Separation from Service prior to the date of such amendment or termination to:       

(i)   
    receive the unpaid balance of any Severance Pay Benefit that has become payable in accordance with the foregoing provisions of the Plan, with such
balance to be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan in effect immediately prior to such amendment or termination; or          

(ii)   
    qualify for a Severance Pay Benefit upon the timely execution and delivery of the requisite Release after the date of such amendment or termination.

(b)   
    Restrictions on Amendments.         Notwithstanding Section VII(a) of the Plan, and except to the extent required to comply with applicable law, no termination of the Plan and no amendment described below shall be effective if adopted
within six months before or at any time after the public announcement of an event or proposed transaction which would constitute a Change in Control (as such term is defined prior to such amendment); provided, however, that such an amendment or
termination of the Plan may be effected, even if adopted after such a public announcement, if (a) the amendment or termination is adopted after any plans have been abandoned to cause the event or effect the transaction which, if effected, would
have
        
   8   

constituted the Change in Control, and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such adoption, no other
event constituting a Change in Control has occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed transaction which would constitute a Change in Control has been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and
the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred.      The amendments prohibited by
this Section VII(b) include any amendment which is executed (or would otherwise become effective) at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control or any amendment which, if adopted and given effect would:       

(i)   
    Deprive any individual who is an Eligible Employee as of the Change in Control of coverage under the Plan as in effect at the time of such
amendment;          

(ii)   
    Limit eligibility for or reduce the amount of any Severance Pay Benefit; or          

(iii)   
    Amend Section VII, IX, or the definitions of the terms  Change in Control  or  Successors and Assigns  in Section XVII of the
Plan.         No person shall take any action that would directly or indirectly have the same
effect as any of the prohibited amendments or termination described in this Section VII(b).       

(c)   
    No Change in Payment Schedule.         Under no circumstances shall any amendment or termination of the Plan affect or modify the payment schedule in effect for a Participant s Severance Pay Benefit in a manner which would otherwise
result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of that payment schedule under Code Section 409A.       

(d)   
    Amendments to Comply with Section 409A of the Code.         Notwithstanding any provision of Section VII to the contrary, the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to
unilaterally amend or modify this Plan as may be necessary to ensure the Severance Pay Benefits provided under this Plan are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from, or otherwise complies with, Section 409A of the Code; provided,
however, that the Company makes no representation that the Severance Pay Benefit provided under this Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from
applying to the Severance Pay Benefits provided under this Plan.         
   9   

To the extent there is any ambiguity as to whether any provision of this
Plan would otherwise contravene one or more requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A applicable to the Plan, such provision shall be interpreted and applied in a manner that does not result in a violation of the applicable requirements
or limitations of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.       

VIII.   
    NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS         To the full extent permitted by law and except as expressly provided in the Plan, no Severance Pay Benefit shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or
charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.       

IX.   
    SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS         The Plan shall be binding upon the Company, its Successors and Assigns. Notwithstanding that the Plan may be binding upon such Successors and Assigns by operation of law, the Company shall require any
Successor or Assign to expressly assume and agree to be bound by the Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be if no succession or assignment had taken place.       

X.   
    LEGAL CONSTRUCTION         This Plan is governed by and shall be construed in accordance with the Code and ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, with the laws of the State of California.       

XI.   
    ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN          

(a)   
    Plan Sponsor and Plan Administrator.         The Company is the  Plan Sponsor  and the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan as such terms are used in ERISA.       

(b)   
    Administrative Power and Responsibility.         The Company in its capacity as Plan Administrator of the Plan is the named fiduciary that has the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan. The
Company shall make such rules, regulations, interpretations, and computations and shall take such other action to administer the Plan as it may deem appropriate. The Company shall have the sole discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and
to determine eligibility for benefits pursuant to the objective criteria set forth in the Plan. In administering the Plan, the Company shall at all times discharge its duties with respect to the Plan in accordance with the standards set forth in
section 404(a)(l) of ERISA. The Company may engage the services of such persons or organizations to render advice or perform services with respect to its responsibilities under the Plan as it shall determine to be necessary or appropriate. Such
persons or organizations may include (without limitation) actuaries, attorneys, accountants and consultants.         
   10   

(c)   
    Review Panel.         Upon receipt of a request for review, the Company shall appoint a Review Panel that shall consist of three or more individuals. The Review Panel shall be the named fiduciary that shall have authority to
act with respect to appeals from denial of benefits under the Plan.       

(d)   
    Service in More Than One Fiduciary Capacity.         Any person or group of persons may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity with respect to the Plan.       

(e)   
    Performance of Responsibilities.         The responsibilities of the Company under the Plan shall be carried out on its behalf by its officers, employees, and agents. The Company may delegate any of its fiduciary responsibilities under the Plan
to another person or persons pursuant to a written instrument that specifies the fiduciary responsibilities so delegated to each such person.       

(f)   
    Employee Communications and Other Plan Activities.         In communications with its employees and in any other activities relating to the Plan, the Company shall comply with the rules, regulations, interpretations, computations, and
instructions that were issued to administer the Plan. With respect to matters relating to the Plan, directors, officers, and employees of the Company shall act on behalf or in the name of the Company in their capacity as directors, officers, and
employees and not as individual fiduciaries.       

XII.   
    CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS          

(a)   
    Claims for Benefits and Inquiries.         All claims for benefits and all inquiries concerning the Plan or present or future rights to benefits under the Plan, shall be submitted to the Plan Administrator in writing and addressed as follows:
 Gilead Sciences, Inc., Plan Administrator under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404  or such other location as communicated to the Participant. A claim for benefits shall be signed by the
Participant, or if a Participant is deceased, by such Participant s spouse or registered domestic partner, designated beneficiary or estate, as the case may be.       

(b)   
    Denials of Claims.         In the event that any claim for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing of such denial and of the right to a review thereof. Such written
notice shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, specific reasons for such denial, specific references to the Plan provision on which such denial is based, a description of any information or material necessary to
perfect the claim, an explanation of why such material is necessary, an
        
   11   

explanation of the Plan s review procedure which includes information on how to appeal the denial and a statement regarding the claimant s right to bring a civil action under ERISA
section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review. Such written notice shall be given to the claimant within 90 days after the Plan Administrator receives the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time of up
to an additional 90 days for processing the claim. If such an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. This notice of
extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render its decision on the claim for benefits. The claimant shall be permitted to appeal such denial in
accordance with the Review Procedure set forth below.       

(c)   
    Review Panel.         The Plan Administrator shall appoint a  Review Panel,  consisting of three or more individuals who may (but need not) be employees of the Company. The Review Panel shall be the named fiduciary
that has the authority to act with respect to any appeal from a denial of benefits.       

(d)   
    Requests for a Review.         Any person whose claim for benefits is denied in whole or in part, or such person s duly authorized representative, may appeal from such denial by submitting a request for a review of the claim to
the Review Panel within 60 days after receiving written notice of such denial from the Plan Administrator. A request for review shall be in writing and shall be addressed as follows:  Review Panel under the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan,
333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404  or such other location as communicated to the Participant. A request for review shall set forth all of the grounds on which it is based, all facts in support of the request and any other matters that
the claimant deems pertinent. As part of the review procedure, the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative may submit written comments, documents, records and other information related to the claim. The Review Panel will
consider all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the
initial benefit determination. The claimant will be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records or other information (all of which must not be privileged) relevant to the benefit claim. The
Review Panel may require the claimant to submit such additional facts, documents or other material as it may deem necessary or appropriate in making its review.       

(e)   
    Decision on Review.         The Review Panel shall act on each request for review and notify the claimant within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of time, up to an additional 60 days,
for processing the request. If such an extension for review is
        
   12   

required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant within the initial 60-day period. The Review Panel shall give prompt, written notice of its decision to the claimant
and to the Plan Administrator. In the event that the Review Panel confirms the denial of the claim for benefits, in whole or in part, such notice shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such
denial, specific references to the Plan provisions on which the decision is based, a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other information
relevant to the benefit claim, a statement describing any voluntary appeal procedures offered by the Plan and the claimant s right to obtain information about such procedures, and a statement informing the claimant of his or her right to bring
a civil action under ERISA section 502(a).       

(f)   
    Rules and Procedures.         The Review Panel shall establish such rules and procedures, consistent with the Plan and with ERISA, as it may deem necessary or appropriate in carrying out its responsibilities under this Section XII.
The Review Panel may require a claimant who wishes to submit additional information in connection with an appeal from the denial of benefits to do so at the claimant s own expense.       

(g)   
    Exhaustion of Remedies.         No legal action for benefits under the Plan shall be brought unless and until the claimant:       

(i)   
    has submitted a written claim for benefits in accordance with Section XII(a);          

(ii)   
    has been notified by the Plan Administrator that the claim is denied;          

(iii)   
    has filed a written request for a review of the claim in accordance with Section XII(d); and          

(iv)   
    has been notified in writing that the Review Panel has affirmed the denial of the claim.          

XIII.   
    BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN         All Severance Pay Benefits under the Plan shall be paid by the Company. The Plan shall be unfunded and benefits hereunder shall be paid only from the general assets of the Company.       

XIV.   
    OTHER PLAN INFORMATION          

(a)   
    Plan Identification Numbers.         The Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned to the Plan Sponsor (Gilead Sciences, Inc.) by the Internal Revenue Service is 94-3047598. The Plan Number (PN)
        
   13   

assigned to the Plan by the Plan Sponsor pursuant to instructions of the Internal Revenue Service is 508.       

(b)   
    Ending Date of the Plan s Fiscal Year.         The date of the end of the year for the purpose of maintaining the Plan s fiscal records is December 31.       

(c)   
    Agent for the Service of Legal Process.         The agent for the service of legal process with respect to the Plan is the Secretary of Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404. The service of legal process
may also be made on the Plan by serving the Plan Administrator.       

(d)   
    Plan Sponsor and Administrator.         The  Plan Sponsor  and the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan is Gilead Sciences, Inc., 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404; 650-522-5800 or such other location as communicated to
the Participant. The Plan Administrator is the named fiduciary charged with responsibility for administering the Plan.       

XV.   
    STATEMENT OF ERISA RIGHTS         As a participant in this Plan (which is a welfare plan sponsored by the Company), you are entitled to the following rights and protection under ERISA:       

(a)   
    Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office and at other specified locations such as work sites, all Plan documents, collective
bargaining agreements and copies of all documents filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.          

(b)   
    Obtain copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written request to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may make a
reasonable charge for the copies.          

(c)   
    In addition to creating rights for Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people responsible for the operation of the employee benefit
Plan. The people who operate your Plan, called  fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and Beneficiaries.          

(d)   
    No one, including your employer, your union, nor any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from
obtaining a Plan benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA. If your claim for a Plan benefit is denied in whole or in part, you must receive a written explanation of the reason for the denial. You have the right to have the claim reviewed and
reconsidered.            
   14   

(e)   
    Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if you request materials from the Plan and do not receive them
within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of
reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator. If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that the Plan fiduciaries misuse the
Plan s money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If
you are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.          

(f)   
    If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about your
rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security
Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits
Security Administration.          

XVI.   
    AVAILABILITY OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION         ERISA requires Gilead Sciences, Inc., as the Plan Administrator of a benefit plan sponsored by the Company, to make available for your examination the Plan documents under which the
Plan is established and operated.      The pertinent Plan documents include official Plan texts and any other
documents under which the Plan is established or operated, and applicable collective bargaining agreements.      These Plan documents are available for your examination at the Plan Administrator s office, 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404, and at certain other locations such as the Company s Human Resources offices.       

XVII.   
    DEFINITIONS          

(a)   
     Affiliate  means a member of the Affiliated Group other than Gilead Sciences, Inc. and any Subsidiary.          

(b)   
     Affiliated Group  means the Company and each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the
Company, as determined in accordance with Section 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.            
   15   

(c)   
     Beneficiary  means the person or persons so designated by a Participant. A Participant may change or revoke a designation of a
Beneficiary at any time. To be effective, any designation of a Beneficiary, or any change or revocation thereof, must be made in writing on the prescribed form and must be received by the Company (in a form acceptable to the Company) before the
Participant s death. If a Participant fails to make a valid designation of a Beneficiary, or if the validly designated Beneficiary is not living when a payment is to be made to such Beneficiary hereunder, the Participant s Beneficiary
shall be the Participant s spouse or registered domestic partner if then living or, if not, the Participant s estate.          

(d)   
     Buyer  means an entity that purchases (or has purchased) some or all of the Affiliated Group s interest applicable to the operation
in which the Participant is employed, or an entity that is a direct or indirect successor in ownership or management of the operation in which the Participant is employed. Notwithstanding the above, Buyer shall not include the entity that
effectuates a Change in Control.          

(e)   
     Change in Control  means an event which constitutes a change in control of the Company as defined in Section 2(i) of the Gilead
Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time or any successor to such provision.          

(f)   
     Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

(g)   
     Company  means Gilead Sciences, Inc. Where the context requires,  Company  also includes its Subsidiaries, and any of their
Successors and Assigns.          

(h)   
     Continuous Service  means the sum of the following:          

(i)   
    Any period of time during which a person qualifies as an Eligible Employee or, having once so qualified, is on a leave of absence with pay, a paid
vacation or holiday or is receiving benefits under the Company s short-term disability plan; or;          

(ii)   
    Any other period that constitutes Continuous Service under written rules or procedures adopted from time to time by the Company, subject to such
terms and conditions as the Company may establish; and any period of time while employed by the Company s Successor or Assigns that that would have constituted Continuous Service if the service had been with the Company prior to the Change in
Control.         If an Eligible Employee s Continuous Service is interrupted and the Eligible
Employee subsequently returns to a status that constitutes Continuous Service, such prior Continuous Service shall be disregarded for all purposes of the Plan, except that if an Eligible Employee is reemployed within one year following termination
of Continuous Service, all prior Continuous Service and the time period between the date of termination and reemployment will be considered Continuous Service.       

(i)   
     Determination Date  means each December 31.            
   16   

(j)   
     Eligible Employee  means any common law employee on the U.S. dollar payroll of the Company or any Subsidiary who (i) is not on the
payroll of a person other than the Company or such Subsidiary and is for any reason deemed by the Company or any Subsidiary to be a common law employee of the Company or such Subsidiary; (ii) is not considered by the Company or any Subsidiary
in its sole discretion to be an independent contractor, regardless of whether the individual is in fact a common law employee of the Company or such Subsidiary; and (iii) who at the time of his or her Separation from Service with the Company or
such Subsidiary is not on a Leave of Absence Without Pay. An individual s status as an Eligible Employee shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion, and such determination shall be conclusively binding on all persons.
Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Eligible Employee  does not include an employee or former employee of an entity the stock or assets of which are acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary, unless and until the Company s management
determines that the Plan shall be applicable to such employees or former employees.          

(k)   
     Employer Group  means the Company and each other member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include
the Company, as determined in accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining the controlled
group of corporations under Section 414(b), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each place the latter phrase appears in such sections, and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of
the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  each
place the latter phrase appears in Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations.          

(l)   
     Employee  means an individual for so long as he or she is in the employ of at least one member of the Employer Group, subject to the
control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.          

(m)   
     ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time-to-time.          

(n)   
     Family Leave  means a leave under the Company s family leave policy.          

(o)   
     Leave of Absence Without Pay  means a leave of absence without pay under the Company s leave of absence policy.

(p)   
     Outsourcing Supplier  means an entity to whom the Company outsources a function performed by Eligible Employees where the Company agrees
with such entity in the outsourcing agreement that it will offer jobs to current Eligible Employees performing that function for the Company.          

(q)   
     Participant  means any Eligible Employee who has commenced participation in the Plan pursuant to Section II and whose participation has
not terminated pursuant to Section III.          

(r)   
     Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan.            
   17   

(s)   
     Plan Administrator  means the Company.          

(t)   
     Regular Earnings  means straight-time wages or salary paid to a Participant by any entity within the Employer Group for working a regular
work schedule or for a leave of absence with pay, and shall include any amount that is contributed to any employee benefit plan on behalf of the Participant by any entity within the Employer Group under a salary reduction agreement entered into
pursuant to such plan and that is excluded from the Participant s gross income under section 125, 132(f), or 402(g) of the Code.          

(u)   
     Release  means a Release in the form prescribed by the Company in its sole discretion, pursuant to which the Participant shall waive all
employment-related claims in connection with his or her employment with the Employer Group and the termination of that employment, other than claims for benefits under the actual terms of an employee benefit plan and worker s compensation. For
employees subject to the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, such Release shall be structured so as to comply with the requirements of the Older Workers  Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C.   626(f). The form of Release may vary among
categories of employees and from employee to employee within any category of employees.          

(v)   
     Severance Pay Benefit  means a benefit provided by the Plan, as determined pursuant to Section IV.          

(w)   
     Specified Employee  shall mean a  key employee  (within the meaning of that term under Code Section 416(i)). Effective as
of January 1, 2005, a Specified Employee is an Eligible Employee who, at any time during the twelve (12)-month period ending with the applicable Determination Date, is:          

(i)   
    An officer of the Company or any other member of the Affiliated Group having aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or more other
members of the Affiliated Group greater than the compensation limit in effect at the time under Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i) of the Code, provided that no more than fifty officers of the Company shall be determined to be Specified Employees as of
any Determination Date;          

(ii)   
    A five percent owner of the Company or any other member of the Affiliated Group; or          

(iii)   
    A one percent owner of the Company or any other member of the Affiliated Group who has aggregate annual compensation from the Company and/or one or
more other members of the Affiliated Group of more than $150,000.         If an Eligible Employee
is determined to be a Specified Employee on a Determination Date, then such Eligible Employee shall be considered a Specified Employee for purposes of the Plan during the period beginning on the first April 1 following the Determination Date
and ending on the next March 31.      For purposes of determining an officer s compensation when
identifying Specified Employees, compensation is defined in accordance with Treas. Reg.  1.415(c) 2(a),
        
   18   

without applying any safe harbor, special timing or other special rules described in Treas. Reg.    1.415(c) 2(d), 2(e) and 2(g).       

(x)   
     Subsidiary  means any corporation with respect to which Gilead Sciences, Inc., one or more Subsidiaries, or Gilead Sciences, Inc.,
together with one or more Subsidiaries, own not less than 80% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or not less than 80% of the total value of all shares of all outstanding classes of stock.

(y)   
     Successors and Assigns  means a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company
(including the Plan) whether by operation of law or otherwise.          

(z)   
     Separation from Service  means the Participant s cessation of Employee status. For purposes of the Plan, a Separation from Service
shall be determined in accordance with the following standards:         A Separation from Service
will not be deemed to have occurred if the Participant continues to provide services to one or more members of the Employer Group (whether as a common-law employee or non-employee consultant or contractor) at an annual rate that amounts to 50% or
more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding 36-months of employment with the Employer Group (or if employed by the Employer Group less than 36 months, such lesser period).      A Separation from Service will be deemed to have occurred if the Participant s service with the Employer Group (whether
as a common-law employee or non-employee consultant or contractor) is permanently reduced to an annual rate that amounts to 20% or less of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding 36 months of employment with the Employer
Group (or if employed by the Employer Group less than 36 months, such lesser period).      If such services are
permanently reduced to more than 20% but less than 50% of the average over the prior 36 months (or lesser period), a Separation from Service may be deemed to occur based on the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, whether the
Participant is treated as an employee for other purposes, such as participation in employee benefit programs, and whether the Participant is able to perform services for other unrelated entities.      In addition to the foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred while the Participant is on
military leave, sick leave, or other  bona   fide  leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six months or any longer period for which such Participant s right to reemployment with one or more members of the
Employer Group is provided either by statute or contract;   provided, however,   that in the event of a Participant s leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in
death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes such individual to be unable to perform his or her duties as an Employee, no Separation from Service shall be deemed to
        
   19   

occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated
above) and the Participant s right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or contract, then such Participant will be deemed to have a Separation from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of such six (6)-month
or twenty-nine (29)-month period.      This definition of Separation from Service shall not be interpreted as
limiting the right of the Company or any other member of the Employer Group to terminate the employment of an individual while on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence, to the extent permissible under applicable law.

(aa)   
     2004 Equity Incentive Plan  means the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time or any
successor to such provision.          

(bb)   
     Year of Continuous Service  means the number of days (as defined by the Company in written rules adopted by it from time to time) of
Continuous Service, divided by 365. A Participant s Severance Pay Benefit calculation shall include both full and any partial Years of Continuous Service.         XVIII. EXECUTION      The Company has caused its
duly-authorized officer to execute the foregoing Plan as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2010.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.     

/s/ Kristen M. Metza    
 
    By:      Kristen M. Metza    

Senior Vice President, Human Resources    

Date: February 4, 2010     
      
   20   

APPENDIX A        Chief Executive Officer        Severance Benefits  

A.   
    Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) in connection with a Separation from Service occurring either within the 24-month period following a Change in
Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall
be:       

1.   
    Three times annual Regular Earnings plus three times the average of the actual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in
whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s
employment terminates.          

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to thirty-six (36) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely
basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such
Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar
           
   21   

amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the
Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected.
It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 12 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

4.   
    Subject to the limitation set forth in section A.5 of this Appendix A, an additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant
of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount
equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the
 Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the
Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any
parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive
and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related
Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the
additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such
determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial
payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the
appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment
           
   22   

made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund
attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company
(such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal
may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of
Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent those payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and
any supplemental payments shall in no event be made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may
be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.          

5.   
    A Participant shall only be eligible for the additional payments provided by section A.4 above, if such Participant is, as of January 28, 2010,
employed in a position with the Company that is covered under Appendicies A through C to the Plan. If the Participant does not meet such eligibility standard, then any Severance Pay Benefit to which he or she becomes entitled under the Plan as a
result of a Separation from Service during the Change in Control Period, together with any other payment in the nature of compensation to which he or she may become entitled that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of
the Code, shall be subject to the following limitation (the  Benefit Limitation ):         a.      If the parachute value of the Severance Pay Benefit and the other payments, as calculated in accordance with the parachute payment determination and valuation
provisions of Section 280G of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, does not exceed in the aggregate 110% of the safe harbor amount allowable under Section 280G of the Code without triggering a parachute payment
under Section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Code (the  Safe Harbor Amount ), then the aggregate amount of the Severance Pay Benefit and such other payments shall be reduced to the extent (if any) necessary to assure that they do not exceed the
Safe Harbor Amount.      b.      If the parachute value of the
Severance Pay Benefit and the other payments, as calculated in accordance with the parachute payment determination and valuation provisions of Section 280G of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, exceeds in the aggregate
110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then the Severance Pay Benefit and any other amounts in the nature of a parachute payment under Code Section 280G payable to the Participant shall be limited to the   greater   of (x) the Safe
Harbor Amount or (y) the amount that yields
        
   23   

the Participant the greatest after-tax aggregate amount of such Severance Pay Benefit and other payments due the Participant after taking into account any excise tax imposed on those amounts
under Code Section 4999.      c.      All calculations
required under this section A.5 shall be made by an independent registered public accounting firm (the   Auditor  ) selected by the Company, and the fees of such Auditor shall be paid by the Company. Unless the Participant agrees
otherwise in writing, the Auditor selected by the Company shall be a nationally recognized United States registered public accounting firm that has not during the two years preceding the date of its selection, acted in any way on behalf of the
Company. The required calculations shall be provided to the Participant and the Company within ten (10) business days following the Participant s Separation from Service during the Change in Control Period under circumstances entitling the
Participant to a Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan and within ten (10) days following the occurrence of any other event triggering a parachute payment for the Participant.      d.      If a reduction in the payments or benefits constituting a parachute
payment under Code Section 280G is required pursuant to the Benefit Limitation imposed under this section A.5, then such reduction shall be effected in the following order: first, the Participant s salary and bonus continuation payments
under section A.1 of this Appendix A to the Plan shall be reduced (with such reduction to be applied pro-rata to each such payment and without any change to the payment dates), then the amount of the Participant s Lump Sum Health Care Payment
shall be reduced, and finally any accelerated vesting of the Participant s equity awards under one or more of the Company s stock compensation plans, including (without limitation) the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and any predecessor plans,
shall be reduced (based on the amount of the parachute payment calculated for each such award in accordance with the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 280G), with such reduction to occur in the same chronological order in which those
awards were made.       

B.   
    Severance Pay Benefit.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) after completion of six or more months of Continuous Service in connection with a subsequent Separation from Service occurring at any time
other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of the Appendix A, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.   
    Two times annual Regular Earnings plus two times the average of the actual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in
whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s
employment terminates.            
   24   

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to twenty-four (24) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely
basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the
Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period
following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of
Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall
constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such
withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.

3.   
    Outplacement services for 12 months following the date of Separation from Service.            
   25   

APPENDIX B        Executive Vice President and        Senior Vice President
       Severance Benefits        

A.   
    Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) in connection with a Separation from Service occurring either within the 18-month period following a Change in
Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that precedes such Change in Control (the  Change in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall
be:       

1.   
    2.5 times annual Regular Earnings, plus 2.5 times the average of the actual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in
whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s
employment terminates.          

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to thirty (30) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely
basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such
Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of
           
   26   

Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service
occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum
Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group
health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

4.   
    Subject to the limitation set forth in section A.5 of this Appendix B, an additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant
of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount
equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the
 Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the
Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any
parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive
and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related
Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the
additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such
determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial
payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the
appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than
           
   27   

the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then the Participant shall
refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue
Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant
and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental
payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent those payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the
Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and any supplemental payments shall in no event be made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted
to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.          

5.   
    A Participant shall only be eligible for the additional payments provided by section A.4 above, if such Participant is, as of January 28, 2010,
employed in a position with the Company that is covered under Appendicies A through C to the Plan. If the Participant does not meet such eligibility standard, then any Severance Pay Benefit to which he or she becomes entitled under the Plan as a
result of a Separation from Service during the Change in Control Period, together with any other payments in the nature of compensation to which he or she may become entitled that constitute a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of
the Code, shall be subject to the following limitation (the  Benefit Limitation ):         a.      If the parachute value of the Severance Pay Benefit and the other payments, as calculated in accordance with the parachute payment determination and valuation
provisions of Section 280G of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, does not exceed in the aggregate 110% of the safe harbor amount allowable under Section 280G of the Code without triggering a parachute payment
under Section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Code (the  Safe Harbor Amount ), then the aggregate amount of the Severance Pay Benefit and such other payments shall be reduced to the extent (if any) necessary to assure that they do not exceed the
Safe Harbor Amount.      b.      If the parachute value of the
Severance Pay Benefit and the other payments, as calculated in accordance with the parachute payment determination and valuation provisions of Section 280G of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, exceeds in the aggregate
110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then the Severance Pay Benefit and any other amounts in the nature of a parachute payment under Code Section 280G payable to the Participant shall be
        
   28   

limited to the   greater   of (x) the Safe Harbor Amount or (y) the amount that yields the Participant the greatest after-tax aggregate amount of such Severance Pay Benefit
and other payments due the Participant after taking into account any excise tax imposed on those amounts under Code Section 4999.      c.      All calculations required under this section A.5 shall be made by an independent registered public accounting firm (the   Auditor  ) selected by the
Company, and the fees of such Auditor shall be paid by the Company. Unless the Participant agrees otherwise in writing, the Auditor selected by the Company shall be a nationally recognized United States registered public accounting firm that has not
during the two years preceding the date of its selection, acted in any way on behalf of the Company. The required calculations shall be provided to the Participant and the Company within ten (10) business days following the Participant s
Separation from Service during the Change in Control Period under circumstances entitling the Participant to a Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan and within ten (10) days following the occurrence of any other event triggering a parachute
payment for the Participant.      d.      If a reduction in the
payments or benefits constituting a parachute payment under Code Section 280G is required pursuant to the Benefit Limitation imposed under this section A.5, then such reduction shall be effected in the following order: first, the
Participant s salary and bonus continuation payments under section A.1 of this Appendix B to the Plan shall be reduced (with such reduction to be applied pro-rata to each such payment and without any change to the payment dates), then the
amount of the Participant s Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be reduced, and finally any accelerated vesting of the Participant s equity awards under one or more of the Company s stock compensation plans, including (without
limitation) the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and any predecessor plans, shall be reduced (based on the amount of the parachute payment calculated for each such award in accordance with the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 280G), with such
reduction to occur in the same chronological order in which those awards were made.       

B.   
    Severance Pay Benefit.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) after completion of six or more months of Continuous Service in connection with a subsequent Separation from Service occurring at any time
other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix B, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.   
    1.5 times annual Regular Earnings plus 1.0 times the average of the actual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in
whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s
employment terminates.            
   29   

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to eighteen (18) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely
basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such
Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under
section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of
all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or
her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.            
   30   

APPENDIX C        Vice President and Senior Advisor        Severance
Benefits        

A.   
    Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit   For All Vice Presidents and Senior Advisors.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) in connection with a Separation from Service occurring
either within the 12-month period following a Change in Control or within the applicable period, as specified in the definition thereof in Section 11(d) of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, that precedes such Change in Control (the  Change
in Control Period ), the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.   
    1.5 times annual Regular Earnings, plus 1.5 times the average of the actual bonuses paid to the Participant (or otherwise earned but deferred in
whole in part) under the Company s annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant for the three fiscal years (or such fewer number of complete fiscal years of employment) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Participant s
employment terminates.          

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to eighteen (18) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely
basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such
Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar
           
   31   

amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the
Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected.
It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

4.   
    Subject to the limitation set forth in section A.5 of this Appendix C, an additional payment in an amount such that after payment by the Participant
of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any interest and penalties imposed thereon) and the excise tax imposed on such additional payment pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, there remains an amount
equal to the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on the Severance Pay Benefit and any other payment in the nature of compensation that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of the Code (the
 Excise Tax ). All calculations required pursuant to this provision shall be performed by an independent registered public company accounting firm retained by the Company for such purpose and shall be based on information supplied by the
Company and the Participant. For any parachute payments occurring at the time of the Change in Control, the relevant calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Change in Control, and for any
parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service, the calculations shall be completed within ten (10) business days after the effective date of such Separation from Service. Such calculations shall be conclusive
and binding on all interested persons. The additional payment resulting from such calculations shall be made to the Participant within ten (10) business days following the completion of such calculations or (if later) at the time the related
Excise Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be greater than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the
additional payment initially made to the Participant pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then within forty-five (45) days following that Final Determination, the Participant shall notify the Company of such
determination, and a new Excise Tax calculation based upon that Final Determination shall be made within the next forty-five (45) days. The Company shall make a supplemental tax gross up payment (as calculated in the same manner as the initial
payment hereunder) to the Participant attributable to that excess Excise Tax liability within ten (10) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess tax liability is remitted to the
appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Participant s actual Excise Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the Excise Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the additional payment
           
   32   

made to him or her pursuant to the preceding provisions of this section A.4, then the Participant shall refund to the Company, promptly upon receipt, any federal or state tax refund
attributable to the Excise Tax overpayment. For purposes of this section A.4, a  Final Determination  means an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Participant and the Company
(such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Participant and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal
may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the additional payment and any supplemental payments under this section A.4 shall be subject to the hold-back provisions of
Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent those payments relate to any amounts and benefits provided hereunder that constitute parachute payments attributable to the Participant s Separation from Service. In addition, such additional payment and
any supplemental payments shall in no event be made later than the end of the calendar year that follows the calendar year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate tax authorities, or such other specified time or schedule that may
be permitted under Section 409A of the Code.          

5.   
    A Participant shall only be eligible for the additional payments provided by section A.4 above, if such Participant is, as of January 28, 2010,
employed in a position with the Company that is covered under Appendicies A through C to the Plan. If the Participant does not meet such eligibility standard, then any Severance Pay Benefit to which he or she becomes entitled under the Plan as a
result of a Separation from Service during the Change in Control Period, together with any other payment in the nature of compensation to which he or she may become entitled that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G of
the Code, shall be subject to the following limitation (the  Benefit Limitation ):         a.      If the parachute value of the Severance Pay Benefit and the other payments, as calculated in accordance with the parachute payment determination and valuation
provisions of Section 280G of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, does not exceed in the aggregate 110% of the safe harbor amount allowable under Section 280G of the Code without triggering a parachute payment
under Section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Code (the  Safe Harbor Amount ), then the aggregate amount of the Severance Pay Benefit and such other payments shall be reduced to the extent (if any) necessary to assure that they do not exceed the
Safe Harbor Amount.      b.      If the parachute value of the
Severance Pay Benefit and the other payments, as calculated in accordance with the parachute payment determination and valuation provisions of Section 280G of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, exceeds in the aggregate
110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then the Severance Pay Benefit and any other amounts in the nature of a parachute payment under Code Section 280G payable to the Participant shall be
        
   33   

limited to the   greater   of (x) the Safe Harbor Amount or (y) the amount that yields the Participant the greatest after-tax aggregate amount of such Severance Pay Benefit
and other payments due the Participant after taking into account any excise tax imposed on those amounts under Code Section 4999.      c.      All calculations required under this section A.5 shall be made by an independent registered public accounting firm (the   Auditor  ) selected by the
Company, and the fees of such Auditor shall be paid by the Company. Unless the Participant agrees otherwise in writing, the Auditor selected by the Company shall be a nationally recognized United States registered public accounting firm that has not
during the two years preceding the date of its selection, acted in any way on behalf of the Company. The required calculations shall be provided to the Participant and the Company within ten (10) business days following the Participant s
Separation from Service during the Change in Control Period under circumstances entitling the Participant to a Severance Pay Benefit under the Plan and within ten (10) days following the occurrence of any other event triggering a parachute
payment for the Participant.      d.      If a reduction in the
payments or benefits constituting a parachute payment under Code Section 280G is required pursuant to the Benefit Limitation imposed under this section A.5, then such reduction shall be effected in the following order: first, the
Participant s salary and bonus continuation payments under section A.1 of this Appendix C to the Plan shall be reduced (with such reduction to be applied pro-rata to each such payment and without any change to the payment dates), then the
amount of the Participant s Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be reduced, and finally any accelerated vesting of the Participant s equity awards under one or more of the Company s stock compensation plans, including (without
limitation) the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and any predecessor plans, shall be reduced (based on the amount of the parachute payment calculated for each such award in accordance with the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 280G), with such
reduction to occur in the same chronological order in which those awards were made.       

B.   
    Severance Pay Benefit for Vice Presidents with at least Six Months of Continuous Service.         For Vice Presidents who have completed six or more months of Continuous Service at the time they become eligible for a
severance benefit under Section IV (a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable in connection with a Separation from Service occurring at any time other than the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this
Appendix C, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to twelve (12) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her
           
   34   

termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan,
pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has
not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs
within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of
the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty
(30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such
Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the
Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant
shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual
COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

C.   
    Severance Pay Benefit for Vice Presidents with less than Six Months of Continuous Service.         For Vice Presidents who have not completed six or more months of Continuous Service but are otherwise eligible for a
severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable in connection with a Separation from Service occurring at any time other than the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this
Appendix C, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.   
    4 months of Regular Earnings.            
   35   

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in an amount equal to four (4) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of such termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated
executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section
IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely
basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later
than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such
Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under
section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of
all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or
her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 1 month following the date of Separation from Service.         Senior Advisors shall not be entitled to any benefits under Sections B and C of this Appendix C.         
   36   

APPENDIX D        Severance Benefits for Eligible Employees        other
than Chief Executive Officer,        Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President,        Vice President and Senior Advisor       This Appendix is effective for covered individuals who cease Employee status on or after May 8, 2007, unless they have a pre-existing contract providing a different level of severance pay.

A.   
    Change in Control Severance Pay Benefit.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) in connection with a Separation from Service occurring within the 12-month period following a Change in Control (the
 Change in Control Period ), then regardless of the period of Continuous Service the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

a.   
    Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 52 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 22 weeks of
Regular Earnings.          

b.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of
months (rounded up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph A.1.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the
Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan,
pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with
the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and
location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective
following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of
such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired,
           
   37   

or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period,
provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which
the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant
shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual
COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.   
    Outplacement services for 6 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

a.   
    Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of
Regular Earnings.          

b.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the  Lump Sum Health Care Payment ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of months
(rounded up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph A.2.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant,
as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their
COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has
not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs
within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of

38   

the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the
Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last
day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has
not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section
402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all
applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her
spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.   
    Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

a.   
    Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 26 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 9 weeks of
Regular Earnings.          

b.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of
months (rounded up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph A.3.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the
Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan,
pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with
the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the
           
   39   

Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered
by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3)
of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in
no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from
Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment
exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be
subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole
responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.   
    Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.          

B.   
    General Severance Pay Benefit.         If a Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable under Section IV(a)(i) after completion of six or more months of Continuous Service in connection with a subsequent Separation from Service occurring at any time
other than within the Change in Control Period as defined in paragraph A of this Appendix D, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

a.   
    Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of
Regular Earnings.          

b.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of
months (rounded up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph B.1.a
           
   40   

above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued
medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the
Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The
Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her
Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any
waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date
thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the
required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred
payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care
Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining
after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.

c.   
    Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.          

a.   
    Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 39 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 13 weeks of
Regular Earnings.            
   41   

b.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of
months (rounded up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph B.2.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the
Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan,
pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with
the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and
location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective
following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of
such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day
period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for
the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes,
and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents
to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

c.   
    Outplacement services for 3 months following the date of Separation from Service.            
   42   

a.   
    Three weeks of Regular Earnings times Years of Continuous Service, with a maximum of 26 weeks of Regular Earnings and a minimum of 9 weeks of
Regular Earnings.          

b.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the dollar amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of
months (rounded up to the next whole month) in the applicable severance pay period determined for the Participant in accordance with Paragraph B.3.a above by (B) the amount by which (i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the
Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under the Company s employee group health plan,
pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a similarly-situated executive whose employment with
the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay date for the Participant s former job and
location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective
following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a timely basis to the Company and in the case of
such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day
period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and such Release has not been revoked.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1) of the Code for
the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of all applicable withholding taxes,
and the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents
to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.            
   43   

c.   
    Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.          

C.   
    General Severance Pay Benefit Without Six Months of Continuous Service.         For Eligible Employees in Grades 21 through 34 who have not completed six or more months of Continuous Service but are
eligible for a severance benefit under Section IV(a)(i), if the Severance Pay Benefit becomes payable in connection with a Separation from Service occurring at any time other than within the Change Control Period as defined in paragraph A of
this Appendix D, then the Severance Pay Benefit shall be:       

1.   
    4 weeks of Regular Earnings.          

2.   
    A lump sum cash payment (the   Lump Sum Health Care Payment  ) in the amount equal to one (1) times the amount by which
(i) the monthly cost that would be payable by the Participant, as measured as of the date of his or her termination of employment, to obtain continued medical care coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents under
the Company s employee group health plan, pursuant to their COBRA rights, at the level in effect for each of them on the date of the Participant s termination of employment exceeds (ii) the monthly amount payable at such time by a
similarly-situated executive whose employment with the Company has not terminated to obtain group health care coverage at the same level. The Company shall pay the Lump Sum Health Care Payment to the Participant on the first regularly scheduled pay
date for the Participant s former job and location that occurs within the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date of his or her Separation from Service on which both (A) the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with
Section IV(a)(i)(2) of the Plan is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review and revocation periods and (B) any waiver required of the Participant pursuant to Section IV(a)(ii)(3) of the Plan has been delivered on a
timely basis to the Company and in the case of such waiver the thirty (30)-day maximum delivery period has expired, or on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall such payment be made
later than the last day of such sixty (60)-day period, provided such Release and waiver have each been delivered to the Company within the required time period following the Participant s Separation from Service, as set forth in Section IV, and
such Release has not been revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall be subject to the deferred payment provisions of Section V(d) of the Plan, to the extent such payment exceeds the applicable dollar amount under
section 402(g)(1) of the Code for the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The Lump Sum Health Care Payment shall constitute taxable income to the Participant and shall be subject to the Company s collection of
all applicable withholding taxes, and
           
   44   

the Participant shall receive only the portion of the Lump Sum Health Care Payment remaining after such withholding taxes have been collected. It shall be the sole responsibility of the
Participant and his or her spouse and eligible dependents to obtain actual COBRA coverage under the Company s group health care plan.          

3.   
    Outplacement services for 1 week following the date of Separation from Service.            
   45   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-21.1>
 6
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        

Name of Subsidiary    
     
     Country of Incorporation     

Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited  
     
  Ireland   

Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC  
     
  United States   

CV Therapeutics Europe Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   

Gilead Alberta ULC  
     
  Canada   

Gilead Alberta, LLC  
     
  United States   

Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation  
     
  Ireland   

Gilead Colorado, Inc.  
     
  United States   

Gilead Holdings, LLC  
     
  United States   

Gilead Palo Alto, Inc.  
     
  United States   

Gilead Sciences (NZ)  
     
  New Zealand   

Gilead Sciences Belgium  
     
  Belgium   

Gilead Sciences Canada, Inc.  
     
  Canada   

Gilead Sciences Cork Limited  
     
  Ireland   

Gilead Sciences Denmark ApS  
     
  Denmark   

Gilead Sciences Europe Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   

Gilead Sciences Finland Oy  
     
  Finland   

Gilead Sciences GesmbH.  
     
  Austria   

Gilead Sciences GmbH  
     
  Germany   

Gilead Sciences Hellas EPE  
     
  Greece   

Gilead Sciences Holding, LLC  
     
  United States   

Gilead Sciences Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   

Gilead Sciences International Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   

Gilead Sciences Lda.  
     
  Portugal   

Gilead Sciences Limited  
     
  Ireland   

Gilead Sciences llac Ticaret Limited Sireketi  
     
  Turkey   

Gilead Sciences Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   

Gilead Sciences Luxembourg S.a.r.l.  
     
  Luxembourg   

Gilead Sciences Netherlands BV  
     
  Netherlands   

Gilead Sciences Norway AS  
     
  Norway   

Gilead Sciences Pty Limited  
     
  Australia   

Gilead Sciences S.L.  
     
  Spain   

Gilead Sciences S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   

Gilead Sciences SAS  
     
  France   

Gilead Sciences Sweden AB  
     
  Sweden   

Gilead Sciences Switzerland Sarl  
     
  Switzerland   

Leaf   Shield Insurance Limited  
     
  Bermuda   

Tri-Supply Limited  
     
  Ireland    

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-08083, 333-08085, 333-58893, 333-84719, 333-84713, 333-47520, 333-64628, 333-102911, 333-102912, 333-117480, 333-126012, 333-135412,
333-136814, 333-138985, 333-143920, 333-151624, 333-158638, 333-161069 and 333-163871) pertaining to the 1991 Stock Option Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 1995 Non-Employee Directors 
Stock Option Plan, the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan of Gilead Sciences, Inc., the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1993 Incentive Stock Plan, the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, the Vestar, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, the
Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, Option Agreement, dated August 5, 2002, between Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Daniel G. Welch, the Corus Pharma, Inc. 2001 Stock Plan, the Myogen, Inc. 2003 Equity Incentive Plan,
the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 1994 Equity Incentive Plan, the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 2000 Nonstatutory Incentive Plan, the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 2004 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan, the CV
Therapeutics, Inc. Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-87167, 333-54350, 333-103871, 333-111451 and 333-138979) of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and in the related Prospectuses of our reports
dated March 1, 2010, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Gilead Sciences, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Gilead Sciences, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2009.      / S /    E RNST   
Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      March 1, 2010   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

CERTIFICATION OF CEO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A) 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, John C. Martin, Ph.D., certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: March 1, 2010  
     
    / S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN             

John C. Martin, Ph.D.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

CERTIFICATION OF CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A) 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Robin L. Washington, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: March 1, 2010  
     
    / S /    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON             

Robin L. Washington       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(B) OR RULE 15D-14(B)

CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(B) OR RULE 15D-14(B) 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATIONS        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
Annual Report of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (the Company ) on Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Annual Report) and pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted), John C. Martin, Ph.D., the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Robin L. Washington, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
each hereby certifies that, to the best of his or her knowledge:       1.  The Company s Annual Report
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and       2.  The information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company at the end of the periods covered by the Annual Report and
results of operations of the Company for the periods covered by the Annual Report.      Dated: March 1, 2010       

/ S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

/ S /    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON             
 
     John C. Martin, Ph.D.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

Robin L. Washington       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer         This
certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 gild-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 gild-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 gild-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 gild-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 gild-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 gild-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

